

401 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Looking Up, Looking Back

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SCHULZ. 
Kathryn Schulz is the author of ''Being Wrong: Adventures in the Margin of Error.''

 BODY:
LUMINOUS AIRPLANES
By Paul La Farge
245 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
One of the startling things about getting older is that somewhere along the line, members of your generation ascend to public life: they run for office, land jobs that aren't modified by the word ''assistant,'' write novels. In this last instance, they do the rest of us a service by tracing the trajectory that a swath of people cut through history, and vice versa. 
I thought about this while reading Paul La Farge's new novel, ''Luminous Airplanes,'' which outlines the experiences of what I'm tempted to call the Trash 80 generation. (''Trash 80,'' if you don't get the reference, was the semi-affectionate nickname for the TRS-80, the most popular desktop computer of the late '70s.) La Farge's unnamed narrator was born around the same time as the personal computer, emerged into the job market in the sunny dot-com '90s and dropped out of graduate school to become a programmer in San Francisco. When the book opens, the Internet bubble has just burst, and the narrator -- unmoored by the crash and also by the death of his grandfather -- returns to upstate New York, to the fictional town of Thebes, where he spent childhood summers under his grandparents' care. Ostensibly, he's there to sort out his grandfather's possessions. In reality, he's sorting out his own past, or trying.
Upon arriving in Thebes, the narrator re-encounters his childhood neighbors, Kerem and Yesim Regenzeit. As a kid, he played computer games with Kerem; with Yesim he played a game most of us fondly recall as ''doctor.'' The grown-up Yesim is plainly unstable, but it doesn't take long for the two to start playing the game's adult version -- with adult consequences. Meanwhile, he muses on what he has abandoned, and what has abandoned him. The former include San Francisco, his job and his dissertation on the Millerites, a 19th-century apocalyptic sect. The latter include, chiefly, his parents. He refers throughout the book to ''my mothers,'' plural, but it's not what you're thinking; he was raised by identical twins, one of whom was seduced, at 16, by a 50-year-old lawyer -- ''6-foot-2, eyes of blue, nonetheless a New York Jew.'' Largely deprived of information about his absent father, the narrator can only invent fantasies. When these collapse, he is left with an unsavory reality -- and left wondering if he must repeat, with Yesim, his father's mistakes.
''Luminous Airplanes'' is an unlikely project for La Farge, an experimental writer whose earlier books include an extended allegory (''The Artist of the Missing'') and a work of historical fiction presented as a translation of an obscure French text (''Haussmann; Or, The Distinction''). By contrast, this new book is essentially a realist novel. True, it wears a postmodern coat -- heaven forbid we should go outside without one in this climate -- which manifests as a fondness for the digressive and the knowing. But it is a thin layer, one that seems as much a part of the story as an attempt to subvert it. The result feels like a kind of Realism 2.0, which makes sense: for La Farge and his generation, the patina of postmodernity has always been part of reality.
La Farge's experimental-fiction roots do show, however, in a Web-based ''immersive text'' that supplements the print version of ''Luminous Airplanes.'' This text includes the entire contents of the book, plus additional sections on -- oh, you name it: Julio Cortazar, attention deficit disorder, Cotton Mather, Murphy beds. In the reviewer materials I received, La Farge's editor writes that the immersive text ''points an exciting way forward'' for literature. In fact, though, it points backward, to precisely the era in which ''Luminous Airplanes'' is set. Back then, the Venn diagram circles of book nerds and tech geeks had just kissed for the first time, and within a certain literary scene, hypertext fiction was all the rage. The Web supplement hails from that era, and La Farge knows it. Dig into it deep enough, and you'll find him describing it as ''the last hypertext on earth, lumbering out of the past to wreak havoc on civilization.''
Wreaking havoc on civilization is an overstatement, but I can't recommend that you read ''Luminous Airplanes'' online. Navigating the text's hyperlinks disrupts its narrative momentum, to the point that the whole thing feels like a kind of literary 52-card pickup -- i.e., a lot more fun for the thrower than the throwee. The most generous take on this Web project is that it reads like a rough draft of a very good novel -- which this is. Listen to the narrator, as a boy, encountering a computer for the first time: '' 'Check it out,' Kerem said. He switched the machine on, and . . . green words appeared and vanished, leaving only a prompt, >, the beginning of the beginning.''
La Farge is astute and touching on primitive computing and the inner life of a blossoming first-generation geek. His larger interest, though, lies with computers as metaphor. An error in Line 2, he reminds us, can bring you down 70,000 lines later; and the syntax of programming can sound a lot like the structure of life: ''If, and if, else if, else. Then. Then. Then.''
La Farge coaxes similarly effective symbolism from the history of the airplane. In Thebes, the narrator reads a book called ''Progress in Flying Machines,'' the tragicomedy of which is that it was published in 1894 -- meaning that none of the machines it features ever flew. What useful lesson, he wonders, could early aviators have possibly extracted from, say, an ornithopter: ''Don't make any more giant bats? Hose-tethered flying machines not a good idea? The hard fact of it was that ornithopters, machines with flapping wings, were a digression from the path that led to the airplane.''
And yet, in more optimistic moments, the narrator sees that somehow, after all, we did make progress in flying machines, and if it took 10,000 failures to get there -- well, so be it. Standing next to Yesim as the two contemplate their future, he looks up and sees, ''airplanes shining in the sunlight and moving darkly through the cloud. We were going to be all right, I thought. We had made mistakes, but we could still get off the ground.''
The reminder that we used to look up in wonder, not in fear; that an airplane could plausibly serve as a metaphor for, of all things, hope: in our era, this comes as a strange and salutary shock. In the end, ''Luminous Airplanes'' turns out to be one of the best 9/11 novels I've read, not least because it is such an understated -- almost unstated -- addition to the genre. The terrorist attacks go unmentioned until its final pages, yet everything in it tends in the direction of that day: the implicit future trajectory of the flying machine; the Millerites' obsession with the end of the world; the tension in Thebes between European-Americans and the Middle Eastern Regenzeits; the description of September weather; La Farge's meditation on postmodernity's impermanence. ''What does a world leave behind when it goes? . . . Blank pages and black dust.''
Coming from someone whose life's work involves filling blank pages, that sentiment could seem nihilistic. But it is not. ''Luminous Airplanes'' isn't about disconnection and meaninglessness. It is about connection and significance -- about the way the past becomes the future, the contingent the inevitable, the spandrel the success, the success the tragedy. It is, in other words, about the ramifying, mysterious ways we human beings affect each other, from parent to child, invention to invention, generation to generation: If, if then, then.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODERICK MILLS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (63%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (60%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (69%)

TITLE: Luminous Airplanes (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



402 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: Redefining The Meaning Of No. 1

BYLINE: By DAVID J. ROTHKOPF

 BODY:
David J. Rothkopf is the author of the forthcoming ''Power, Inc.: The Epic Rivalry Between Big Business and Government -- and the Reckoning that Lies Ahead.''
HERE in America, we seem to be more interested in finishing first than we are in figuring out what race we ought to be in.
The refrain is insistent, from President Obama on down. He, like others in both parties, urges us on -- to build or educate or invest or cut the deficit -- so that ''America can be No. 1 again.''
We want to be No. 1 -- but why, and at what? 
The size of our economy is one measure of success, but it's not the only measure.
Isn't the important question not how we remain No. 1 but rather, what we want to be best at -- and even, whether we want to lead at all?
But we are Americans and we seem to think the rest of the world looks best when framed in our rear-view mirror.
We outstrip the world by many measures but lag, sometimes shockingly, in many others. The metrics by which we choose to measure our success determine our priorities. Yet, some of the metrics we rate as most important, like G.D.P., stock indices or trade data, are so deeply flawed as to be irrelevant or worse, dangerous distractions. And at the same time, countries that could hardly hope to outperform the world in any category are far ahead of us when it comes to things that matter more to people. Choosing metrics to measure our society is not a value-free process. As a country we have consistently relied on indicators that keep us focused on the interests of business, financial institutions or the defense industry whereas equity, quality of life and even social mobility metrics are played down.
Calculating national income is a relatively new concept. Previously, countries measured their economic well-being by tallying land holdings or counting railroad boxcars. But in the midst of the Great Depression, Congress, showing a great deal more intellectual curiosity than it does today, commissioned a group of economists led by a future Nobel Prize winner named Simon Kuznets to better measure economic activity.
Although Kuznets and his team fulfilled their mission, they released their results with considerable unease. Not only were they aware that the statistic they devised ignored many types of economic activity -- from the work of housewives to illegal enterprises -- they also knew their number did not assess the social benefits of what they were tracking.
Kuznets warned of this: ''The welfare of a nation can, therefore, scarcely be inferred from a measurement of national income'' like the one they created. That hasn't stopped us from making this misleading number perhaps the most influential statistic in the world.
Americans use G.D.P. in discussions about how well we are doing. It's at the heart of discussions of whether we are in a recession or not, ahead or falling behind.
Yet, when China ''passes'' us, it will remain for the most part a very poor country racked with social problems. And as we have seen, though the past decade was marked mostly by United States ''growth,'' recent Census data shows that since 1999, median American incomes have fallen more than 7 percent while the top 1 percent showed gains. Almost one in four American children live in poverty. We have a high level of unemployment compared to many of our peers.
THE G.D.P. number is not the only culprit, of course. Listening to the news, you might be forgiven if you thought that stock market performance was linked to reality. But markets are oceans of teeming emotions that make the average hormone-infused high school look calmly rational, and much of the ''data'' that moves markets is just bunk. Trade deficit numbers may be scary but they are also frighteningly flawed, doing a terrible job of accounting for trade in services, trade via the Internet, and inter-company trade, to pick just three among many problem areas.
Worse than the shortcomings of these statistics are the consequences of our over-dependence on them as measures of the success of our society. A country, for example, that overemphasizes G.D.P. growth and market performance is likely to focus policies on the big drivers of those -- corporations and financial institutions -- even when, as during the recent past, there has been little correlation between the performance of big businesses or elites and that of most people.
Furthermore, of course, the purpose of a society is not merely the creation of wealth, especially if most of it goes to the few. Even John Locke, who famously enumerated our fundamental rights as being to life, liberty and property, qualified this by asserting that people should appropriate only what they could use, leaving ''enough and as good'' for others. Thomas Jefferson later consciously replaced the right to property with a right to ''the pursuit of happiness.'' And happiness has become the watchword for those seeking different measures that might better guide governments.
According to the economist Carol Graham, the author of a recent book called ''The Pursuit of Happiness: An Economy of Well-Being,'' ''happiness is, in the end, a much more complicated concept than income. Yet it is also a laudable and much more ambitious policy objective.'' While she notes distinctions between approaches to happiness -- with some societies more focused on goals like contentment and others on the creation of equal opportunities -- she joins a growing chorus of leading thinkers who suggest the time has come to rethink how we measure our performance and how we set our goals.
This diverse group has included thinkers and public figures like President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who established a commission in 2008 to address the issue that was co-led by the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz; the Columbia economist Jeffrey D. Sachs; the British prime minister, David Cameron; and the trail-blazing people of Bhutan, who since 1972 have set a goal of raising their gross national happiness.
Dr. Graham admits that it's a challenge to set criteria for measuring happiness. However, in a conversation, she told me she did not see it as an insurmountable one: ''It doesn't have to be perfect; after all, it took us decades to agree upon what to include in G.D.P. and it is still far from a perfect metric.''
But for Americans, beyond choosing the right goals, there remains the issue of being No. 1. Many of us have lived our lives in a country that has thought itself the world's most powerful and successful. But with the United States economy in a frustrating stall as China rises, it seems that period is coming to an end. We are suffering a national identity crisis, and politicians are competing with one another to win favor by assuring a return to old familiar ways.
This approach, too, is problematic. We, as a developed nation, are unlikely to grow at the rapid pace of emerging powers (the United States is currently ranked 127th in real G.D.P. growth rate). Europe and Japan, too, are grappling with the realities of being maturing societies.
But maturing societies can offer many benefits to their citizens that are unavailable to most in the rapidly growing world -- the products of rich educational and cultural resources, capable institutions, stability and prosperity.
AS a consequence, countries that at different times in history were among the world's great powers, such as Sweden, the Netherlands, France, Britain and Germany, have gradually shifted their sights, either in the wake of defeat or after protracted periods of grappling with decline, from winning the great power sweepstakes to topping lists of nations offering the best quality of life.
When Newsweek ranked the ''world's best countries'' based on measures of health, education and politics, the United States ranked 11th. In the 2011 Quality of Life Index by Nation Ranking, the United States was 31st. Similarly, in recent rankings of the world's most livable cities, the Economist Intelligence Unit has the top American entry at No. 29, Mercer's Quality of Living Survey has the first United States entry at No. 31 and Monocle magazine showed only 3 United States cities in the top 25.
On each of these lists, the top performers were heavily concentrated in Northern Europe, Australia and Canada with strong showings in East Asian countries from Japan to Singapore. It is no accident that there is a heavy overlap between the top performing countries and those that also outperform the United States in terms of educational performance -- acknowledging, of course, the mistake it would be to overemphasize any one factor in contributing to something as complex as overall quality of life. Nearly all the world's quality-of-life leaders are also countries that spend more on infrastructure than the United States does. In addition, almost all are more environmentally conscious and offer more comprehensive social safety nets and national health care to their citizens.
That virtually all of the top performers place a much greater emphasis on government's role in ensuring social well-being is also undeniable. But the politics of such distinctions aside, the focus of those governments on social outcomes -- on policies that enhance contentment and security as well as enriching both human capabilities and opportunities -- may be seen as yet another sign of maturity.
It is also worth noting that providing the basics to ensure a high quality of life is not a formula for excess or the kind of economic calamities befalling parts of Europe today. For example, many of the countries that top quality-of-life lists, like Sweden, Luxembourg, Denmark, the Netherlands and Norway, all rank high in lists of fiscally responsible nations -- well ahead of the United States, which ranks 28th on the Sovereign Fiscal Responsibility Index.
What these societies have in common is that rather than striving to be the biggest they instead aspire to be constantly better. Which, in the end, offers an important antidote to both the rhetoric of decline and mindless boosterism: the recognition that whether we are falling behind or achieving new heights is greatly determined both by what goals we set and how we measure our performance.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



403 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2033 words

HEADLINE: The Depression: If Only Things Were That Good

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
David Leonhardt is The New York Times Washington bureau chief.
UNDERNEATH the misery of the Great Depression, the United States economy was quietly making enormous strides during the 1930s. Television and nylon stockings were invented. Refrigerators and washing machines turned into mass-market products. Railroads became faster and roads smoother and wider. As the economic historian Alexander J. Field has said, the 1930s constituted ''the most technologically progressive decade of the century.''
Economists often distinguish between cyclical trends and secular trends -- which is to say, between short-term fluctuations and long-term changes in the basic structure of the economy. No decade points to the difference quite like the 1930s: cyclically, the worst decade of the 20th century, and yet, secularly, one of the best.
It would clearly be nice if we could take some comfort from this bit of history. If anything, though, the lesson of the 1930s may be the opposite one. The most worrisome aspect about our current slump is that it combines obvious short-term problems -- from the financial crisis -- with less obvious long-term problems. Those long-term problems include a decade-long slowdown in new-business formation, the stagnation of educational gains and the rapid growth of industries with mixed blessings, including finance and health care. 
Together, these problems raise the possibility that the United States is not merely suffering through a normal, if severe, downturn. Instead, it may have entered a phase in which high unemployment is the norm.
On Friday, the Labor Department reported that job growth was mediocre in September and that unemployment remained at 9.1 percent. In a recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, forecasters said the rate was not likely to fall below 7 percent until at least 2015. After that, they predicted, it would rarely fall below 6 percent, even in good times.
Not so long ago, 6 percent was considered a disappointingly high unemployment rate. From 1995 to 2007, the jobless rate exceeded 6 percent for only a single five-month period in 2003 -- and it never topped 7 percent.
''We've got a double-whammy effect,'' says John C. Haltiwanger, an economics professor at the University of Maryland. The cyclical crisis has come on top of the secular one, and the two are now feeding off each other.
In the most likely case, the United States has fallen into a period somewhat similar to the one that Europe has endured for parts of the last generation; it is rich but struggling. A high unemployment rate will feed fears of national decline. The political scene may be tumultuous, as it already is. Many people will find themselves shut out of the work force.
Almost 6.5 million people have been officially unemployed for at least six months, and another few million have dropped out of the labor force -- that is, they are no longer looking for work -- since 2008. These hard-core unemployed highlight the nexus between long-term and short-term economic problems. Most lost their jobs because of the recession. But many will remain without work long after the economy begins growing again.
Indeed, they will themselves become a force weighing on the economy. Fairly or not, employers will be reluctant to hire them. Many with borderline health problems will end up in the federal disability program, which has become a shadow welfare program that most beneficiaries never leave.
For now, the main cause of the economic funk remains the financial crisis. The bursting of a generation-long, debt-enabled consumer bubble has left households rebuilding their balance sheets and businesses wary of hiring until they are confident that consumer spending will pick up. Even now, sales of many big-ticket items -- houses, cars, appliances, many services -- remain far below their pre-crisis peaks.
Although the details of every financial crisis differ, the broad patterns are similar. The typical crisis leads to almost a decade of elevated unemployment, according to oft-cited academic research by Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff. Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff date the recent crisis from the summer of 2007, which would mean our economy was not even halfway through its decade of high unemployment.
Of course, making dark forecasts about the American economy, especially after a recession, can be dangerous. In just the last 50 years, doomsayers claimed that the United States was falling behind the Soviet Union, Japan and Germany, only to be proved wrong each time.
This country continues to have advantages that no other country, including China, does: the world's best venture-capital network, a well-established rule of law, a culture that celebrates risk taking, an unmatched appeal to immigrants. These strengths often give rise to the next great industry, even when the strengths are less salient than the country's problems.
THAT'S part of what happened in the 1930s. It's also happened in the 1990s, when many people were worrying about a jobless recovery and economic decline. At a 1992 conference Bill Clinton convened shortly after his election to talk about the economy, participants recall, no one mentioned the Internet.
Still, the reasons for concern today are serious. Even before the financial crisis began, the American economy was not healthy. Job growth was so weak during the economic expansion from 2001 to 2007 that employment failed to keep pace with the growing population, and the share of working adults declined. For the average person with a job, income growth barely exceeded inflation.
The closest thing to a unified explanation for these problems is a mirror image of what made the 1930s so important. Then, the United States was vastly increasing its productive capacity, as Mr. Field argued in his recent book, ''A Great Leap Forward.'' Partly because the Depression was eliminating inefficiencies but mostly because of the emergence of new technologies, the economy was adding muscle and shedding fat. Those changes, combined with the vast industrialization for World War II, made possible the postwar boom.
In recent years, on the other hand, the economy has not done an especially good job of building its productive capacity. Yes, innovations like the iPad and Twitter have altered daily life. And, yes, companies have figured out how to produce just as many goods and services with fewer workers. But the country has not developed any major new industries that employ large and growing numbers of workers.
There is no contemporary version of the 1870s railroads, the 1920s auto industry or even the 1990s Internet sector. Total economic output over the last decade, as measured by the gross domestic product, has grown more slowly than in any 10-year period during the 1950s, '60s, '70s, '80s or '90s.
Perhaps the most important reason, beyond the financial crisis, is the overall skill level of the work force. The United States is the only rich country in the world that has not substantially increased the share of young adults with the equivalent of a bachelor's degree over the past three decades. Some less technical measures of human capital, like the percentage of children living with two parents, have deteriorated. The country has also chosen not to welcome many scientists and entrepreneurs who would like to move here.
The relationship between skills and economic success is not an exact one, yet it is certainly strong enough to notice, and not just in the reams of peer-reviewed studies on the subject. Australia, New Zealand, Canada and much of Northern Europe have made considerable educational progress since the 1980s, for instance. Their unemployment rates, which were once higher than ours, are now lower. Within this country, the 50 most educated metropolitan areas have an average jobless rate of 7.3 percent, according to Moody's Analytics; in the 50 least educated, the average rate is 11.4 percent.
Despite the media's focus on those college graduates who are struggling, it's not much of an exaggeration to say that people with a four-year degree -- who have an unemployment rate of just 4.3 percent -- are barely experiencing an economic downturn.
Economic downturns do often send people streaming back to school, and this one is no exception. So there is a chance that it will lead to a surge in skill formation. Yet it seems unlikely to do nearly as much on that score as the Great Depression, which helped make high school universal. High school, of course, is free. Today's educational frontier, college, is not. In fact, it has become more expensive lately, as state cutbacks have led to tuition increases.
Beyond education, the American economy seems to be suffering from a misallocation of resources. Some of this is beyond our control. China's artificially low currency has nudged us toward consuming too much and producing too little. But much of the misallocation is homegrown.
In particular, three giant industries -- finance, health care and housing -- now include large amounts of unproductive capacity. Housing may have shrunk, but it is still a bigger, more subsidized sector in this country than in many others.
Health care is far larger, with the United States spending at least 50 percent more per person on medical care than any other country, without getting vastly better results. (Some aspects of our care, like certain cancer treatments, are better, while others, like medical error rates, are worse.) The contrast suggests that a significant portion of medical spending is wasted, be it on approaches that do not make people healthier or on insurance-company bureaucracy.
In finance, trading volumes have boomed in recent decades, yet it is unclear how much all the activity has lifted living standards. Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, has mischievously said that the only useful recent financial innovation was the automated teller machine. Critics like Mr. Volcker argue that much of modern finance amounts to arbitrage, in which technology and globalization have allowed traders to profit from being the first to notice small price differences.
IN the process, Wall Street has captured a growing share of the world's economic pie -- thereby increasing inequality -- without doing much to expand the pie. It may even have shrunk the pie, given that a new International Monetary Fund analysis found that higher inequality leads to slower economic growth.
The common question with these industries is whether they are using resources that could do more economic good elsewhere. ''The health care problem is very similar to the finance problem,'' says Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard economist, ''in that incredibly talented people are wasting their talent on something that is essentially a zero-sum game.''
In the short term, finance, health care and housing provide jobs, as their lobbyists are quick to point out. But it is hard to see how the jobs of the future will spring from unnecessary back surgery and garden-variety arbitrage. They differ from the growth engines of the past, which delivered fundamental value -- faster transportation or new knowledge -- and let other industries then build off those advances.
The United States has long overcome its less dynamic industries by replacing them with more dynamic ones. The decline of the horse and buggy, difficult as it may have been for people in the business, created no macroeconomic problems. The trouble today is that those new industries don't seem to be arriving very quickly.
The rate at which new companies are created has been falling for most of the last decade. So has the pace at which existing companies add positions. ''The current problem is not that we have tons of layoffs,'' Mr. Katz says. ''It's that we don't have much hiring.''
If history repeats itself, this situation will eventually turn around. Maybe some American scientist in a laboratory somewhere is about to make a breakthrough. Maybe an entrepreneur is on the verge of creating a great new product. Maybe the recent health care and financial-regulation laws will squeeze the bloat.
For now, the evidence for such optimism remains scant. And the economy remains millions of jobs away from being even moderately healthy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (SR6-SR7) DRAWING (SR1)
CHARTS: LOOKING AHEAD: Economic forecasters predict that unemployment will fall, but not quickly.
Job Creation: Off a Cliff: Annualized rate of change in the number of nonfarm jobs over the preceding decade. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia) (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (91%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



404 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Triggers for Rejection

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
''WE regret to inform you...'' Nobody applying for a new mortgage or a refinancing wants to see or hear these words. But last year more than two million people were turned down for home loans, according to federal data, often because they didn't meet certain lender requirements or because their applications were incomplete or otherwise problematic.
And that number, from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, doesn't even include those who abandon the often-complicated mortgage qualification process. The Mortgage Bankers Association estimates that about half of those who try to refinance and 30 percent of buyers are either denied or drop out. 
''A lot of people have credit banged up,'' said Michael Fratantoni, the association's vice president for research and economics.
Lenders' underwriting criteria have become more rigorous in recent years; some banks have tightened up beyond federal requirements. Here are the six biggest triggers for rejection, according to industry experts.
INSUFFICIENT INCOME Lenders want to make sure you can afford to make the mortgage payments. Someone who earns, say, $40,000 a year need not bid on a $750,000 apartment, unless there's a trust fund with quarterly payouts or other money available. Also, lenders typically look for at least a two-year track record of income, which could hurt those who may have switched jobs recently. ''It's common to get turned down if you have a gap in employment history over the last two years,'' said Erin Lantz, the director of the Zillow Mortgage Marketplace, an online loan-matching service.
CLOUDY FINANCIAL PICTURE Generally, total debt payments, including the mortgage, cannot exceed 45 to 50 percent of your adjusted gross monthly income. Borrowers may be surprised at what counts and what doesn't. Overtime and bonuses are included only if you've worked for the same employer at least two years, and have a history of receiving them, said Mark Lazar, who with his wife, Anna, owns Allied Financial, a mortgage brokerage in River Edge, N.J. Lenders may also disallow rental income from a property you own, unless you have at least 30 percent equity in it, he said.
BAD CREDIT Lenders typically reject applicants with a FICO score below 620, Mrs. Lantz said. ''Some lenders would draw the line a little higher, closer to 660,'' she added, citing Zillow data that show about a third of Americans have credit scores so low they are unlikely to obtain any mortgage. Failing to pay your mortgage on time affects your score. ''If you have late payments within the last 24 months on,'' said Marisol Torruella, a loan originator with the New York Municipal Credit Union, ''the likelihood of getting another mortgage is less.''
LOW APPRAISAL You may think the home you're refinancing or buying is worth around $800,000, but the appraiser says it's closer to $700,000. Suddenly your new mortgage is in jeopardy. This is the predominant reason people are denied home loans today, according to industry experts.
PROPERTY PROBLEMS Sometimes, Mr. Lazar said, issues turn up within a building, apartment unit or house, like a major repair or safety problem that needs to be addressed before an application can be approved. Other times, he said, it may be financial woes within a condominium or co-op, like having a large number of owners delinquent on their fees, or unfinished common areas or amenities.
INFORMATION MIX-UPS About 12 percent of new mortgage applications were denied because of unverifiable information or incomplete credit applications, according to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. This also may include misinformation: If you're renting out the property that you want to refinance, your application for an owner-occupied loan can be rejected, Mr. Fratantoni said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); OVERTIME (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (56%); ZILLOW INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (56%); Z (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



405 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Giddy Winnipeg Reclaims Lost Prairie Companion

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN

 BODY:
WINNIPEG, Manitoba -- After an absence of 15 years, the Winnipeg Jets return to life Sunday afternoon. Which is a good thing because the emotions sweeping the citizens of this prairie city at their beloved club's rebirth have grown to a pitch so fevered that they are practically uncontainable.
''When we lost the Jets, it was like someone smashed their fist through your rib cage, and while you were still conscious, pulled your heart out,'' Sam Katz, the mayor of Winnipeg, said from his office in City Hall, enunciating each word clearly for the full effect.
''Now you cannot find adverbs or adjectives that can actually describe the feelings of Winnipeggers,'' he said. 
The Jets' renaissance officially begins with a sold-out home game against the Montreal Canadiens at MTS Centre. The residents of Winnipeg are as ecstatic now as they were heartbroken in 1996, when, despite a two-year Save the Jets campaign that included the donation of thousands of dollars in pennies from Manitoba schoolchildren, their N.H.L. team moved to Phoenix.
Now their team, the relocated Atlanta Thrashers, is back. Katz's rendering of the emotions surrounding the Jets may sound like hyperbole, but that is the way almost everyone here talks about a team he or she dreamed of returning and, against all odds, actually did come home.
''So improbable is their return that I'm still convinced it hasn't happened,'' said the film director Guy Maddin, likening the Jets' story to ''ghostly returns in ancient texts'' like Ulysses' journey in the ''Odyssey'' and the shade of Hamlet's father strolling the parapet.
Gabriel Winestock, 22, visited the N.H.L. Face-Off festival at the riverside park the Forks on Thursday. ''I took my first steps slamming the door on my dad, who was going to the Jets game without me,'' he said. ''I obviously don't remember, but I'm reminded of it every day.''
On May 19, after years of quixotic hope and false alarms, newspapers reported online that the $170 million Thrashers sale was complete and that the team was moving to Winnipeg. Hundreds of Winnipeg residents spontaneously converged that night on Portage and Main, the city's main intersection, and celebrated until 4 a.m. When season tickets went on sale two weeks later, they sold out in 17 minutes.
''I was screaming and jumping up and down,'' said Britteny Jones, 21, describing her reaction to the news of the team's return.
This season, the Jets are unlikely to improve on the dismal record they compiled in anonymity in the American South, where they were swept by the Rangers in their only playoff appearance in 11 years.
But that does not matter in this city of fewer than 700,000, in which practically every pizza parlor, tavern and gas station has ''Welcome Back, Jets'' signs, and concerns about crime, flooding and politics are subsumed in a wave of hockey-mad optimism. The only thing that matters is that the N.H.L. has returned to Winnipeg.
The Jets' return is a sign not only in Winnipeg but across Canada that the country's economy has grown strong enough to reclaim its national sport from the Sun Belt to which it had been forcibly transplanted during the '90s. The loonie was weak then, and far-flung American markets seemed like the key to the N.H.L.'s future.
There was a two-hour CBC/Radio Canada special Saturday night; a video clip in which Neil Young turns to reveal his Jets sweater and the Canadian flag on his cellphone; and a request from Prime Minster Stephen Harper for 14 tickets to Sunday's sold-out opener.
He was given two. They were the only spare tickets left.
''On behalf of the government of Canada, I extend my best wishes to the Winnipeg Jets for a triumphant return to the N.H.L.,'' Harper said in a statement published Thursday that conveyed the epochal significance of the event.
In Winnipeg, the interest in all things Jets is overwhelming. Fans were relentless in their demand that the former Thrashers be rechristened the Jets (after initial reluctance, the ownership group agreed), and the players have found that they are living their lives in a fishbowl.
''It's a little bit different than Atlanta -- for one thing, there's a lot more of you guys around,'' defenseman Dustin Byfuglien said Thursday to a group of 20 reporters.
The captain Andrew Ladd's wedding pictures were splashed all over The Winnipeg Sun as if he were Kim Kardashian. ''Here the magnifying glass is on pretty much everything you do,'' he said.
Winnipeg's hockey heritage is rich and important. The city's teams won the Stanley Cup in 1896, 1901 and 1902. The 1920 Winnipeg Falcons won the Canadian amateur championship, went to Belgium later that year and won the first Olympic ice hockey gold medal.
In 1972, Winnipeg businessmen founded the World Hockey Association, raised $1 million and used it to sign Bobby Hull away from the Chicago Blackhawks, forever changing hockey salaries.
Hull led the Jets to three W.H.A. championships in the league's seven years of existence. They became the first North American team to sign European players en masse, including the Swedish stars Anders Hedberg and Ulf Nilsson, who broke scoring records playing alongside Hull.
The Jets were absorbed into the N.H.L. in 1979, but they were stripped of their top players as a condition of entry and struggled for years. With falling attendance, an old arena, a faltering local economy and an exchange rate that left the Canadian dollar worth 72 United States cents, the team left for Phoenix in 1996.
''When they left, it just kind of deflated the spirit and ego of Winnipeg,'' said Randy Bachman, 68, a Winnipeg musician best known as one of two front men for Bachman-Turner Overdrive.
Fred Turner, 67, his fellow front man, said, ''I watched the city suffer for 15 years.''
Winnipeg had its problems and still does: a decaying downtown core and a murder rate that, though low by American standards, is the highest in Canada.
But it is also recovering from those problems. Several major building projects have been completed downtown, including MTS Centre, or are under way. It is an ethnically and racially diverse city and has a large Native American presence. Among the languages overheard are Cree and Ojibwe, spoken by families temporarily housed in the city after spring floods devastated First Nations communities 100 miles to the north.
Winnipeg's biggest asset, in terms of the Jets, is David Thomson, the chairman of Thomson Reuters and the Jets' main financial backer. He is worth an estimated $21 billion, making him the richest man in Canada and one of the richest in the world.
Now that the seemingly impossible has been accomplished, Winnipeg's people have an unaccustomed swagger.
Maddin, whose offbeat films include the silent hockey melodrama ''Cowards Bend the Knee'' and whose odd childhood memories include hearing the roars of caged circus animals emanating from the basement of the old Winnipeg Arena during games, once called the city ''the world's sleepwalking capital.''
''The city just woke up -- no more sleepwalking,'' Maddin said. ''For the first time in decades, we seem to have a civic personality. I can't believe the transformation in us.''
Perhaps no one has a better perspective than Craig Heisinger, the Jets' director of hockey operations. He obtained that job after working his way up from trainer and equipment manager roles with the old Jets and with the Manitoba Moose, the minor league team that filled most of the 15-year void.
On April 28, 1996, after the original Jets' final game, Heisinger was the last one out of the Jets' locker room; as the equipment man, he was vacuuming, in tears.
In the intervening years, did he ever believe the Jets would come back?
''I was one of the few people here who never thought it would happen,'' Heisinger said. When did he finally let himself believe? ''About seven days before it happened.''
Heisinger was speaking over the phone Thursday, barely heard over the roar of thousands at the N.H.L. Face-Off party.
Some wore old Jets sweaters with Dale Hawerchuk's No. 10, Teemu Selanne's No. 13, Hull's No. 9; others wore new Jets sweaters with Evander Kane's No. 9. Bachman and Turner came out and played their old hit ''You Ain't Seen Nothin' Yet,'' sending the crowd into overdrive when they changed the lyrics to ''We just got back the Jets.''
''We're a close-knit family here in Winnipeg, and we always will be,'' said Robert Laden, a 57-year-old fan who started attending Jets games in the W.H.A. era. ''To lose the Jets and then have them back again, it's astounding.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Winnipeg's Blake Wheeler after scoring in a preseason game on Sept. 28. The N.H.L. is back in Manitoba after a 15-year absence.
Fans like Scott Andersson, left, were in midseason form when Winnipeg played Carolina in a game that did not count. The Jets and the league hosted the N.H.L. Face-Off street party, right, at the riverside park called the Forks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN WOODS/CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 THOMAS A. FRICKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ICE HOCKEY (88%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (75%); CHILDREN (68%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); WINNIPEG JETS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); MONTREAL CANADIENS (56%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) MANITOBA, CANADA (99%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (55%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



406 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL WHERE FOREIGN AID GOES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: No Time to Get Stingy

BYLINE: By CAROL GIACOMO

 BODY:
Spending for diplomacy and foreign aid has long been a favorite target of Congressional budget cutters. That's truer than ever this year with the supercommittee looking for a $1.5 trillion reduction in the federal deficit. Why spend precious tax dollars overseas when the need at home is so great?
For the sake of national security, this country cannot afford to retreat from the world. Its investment in the State Department and foreign aid helps advance peace and stability by feeding starving people, providing access to doctors and medicines, opening new markets, promoting democracy, curbing nuclear arms and strengthening allies with military and economic assistance. It also gives Washington leverage. 
There is a lot of public misunderstanding about foreign aid, which accounts for less than 2 percent of the federal budget. And the truth is, much of that money -- too much -- goes to American producers of food, medicine and weapons that are delivered abroad.
International affairs spending -- on diplomats and embassies, aid to more than 100 countries and funding for the World Bank, the United Nations and others -- declined after the cold war. It rose after 9/11, from about $32 billion in 2002 to $57 billion in 2010, largely because of obligations connected to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, aid to Pakistan and a greater investment in global health.
The trend is shifting again. As chart A shows, the budget was cut by $6 billion, or roughly 11 percent, in 2011, with a $2 billion reduction possible in 2012 if the Republican-led House prevails. The largest category of spending is direct economic aid, which supports global health programs, as well as efforts to reform economies, expand education and respond to disasters in Haiti, Japan and elsewhere. That type of spending was cut to $21 billion in 2011 from $25 billion in 2010.
Military and security aid to fight terrorism abroad, combat drug trafficking and underwrite foreign arms purchases and military training amounted to $8 billion in 2011. Israel gets about $3 billion annually, with money also going to Egypt, Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan. This is one category the House would increase. The State Department's salaries, embassy construction and security, and contributions to international institutions make up most of the rest of the budget.
At least four critical areas would suffer disproportionately from cuts proposed by the House. The Obama administration opposes those cuts and is seeking limited increases. As chart B shows, food aid, which was $1.7 billion in 2011, would fall 28 percent to $1.2 billion in the House plan. A global health initiative, which is reducing malaria in Africa and preventing the spread of H.I.V./AIDS, under that plan would lose $700 million from its $7.8 billion budget. The United States Agency for International Development (Usaid), which oversees aid programs and ensures that funds are properly spent, faces a $400 million cut -- and likely staff layoffs. Money for development projects like water filtration plants would be sliced by 18 percent by the House.
Savings squeezed from the State Department and foreign aid -- which together are less than a tenth of the basic Pentagon budget -- would be a tiny share of the $3.8 trillion federal budget. Yet the effects would be hugely damaging to American foreign policy. Washington needs resources to support new democracy movements in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. This is also a critical time in Iraq and Afghanistan, where demands for diplomatic resources are growing. National security has always depended on more than military strength. We need diplomats to anticipate problems and find nonmilitary solutions. The drive to cut diplomatic resources and foreign aid seriously harms our ability to do just that.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Components of Foreign Aid
Proposals to Increase or Cut in 2012 (Sources: State Department
 Congressional Research Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TRENDS (75%); MALARIA (75%); STARVATION (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); MILITARY TRAINING (70%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); HAITI (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



407 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Principals of Economics

BYLINE: By JUSTIN FOX. 
Justin Fox, the author of ''The Myth of the Rational Market,'' is editorial director of the Harvard Business Review Group.

 BODY:
GRAND PURSUIT
The Story of Economic Genius
By Sylvia Nasar
Illustrated. 558 pp. Simon & Schuster. $35.
Listen to the economic debates of the past couple of years, and it's tempting to conclude that no progress has been made in the field in over half a century. There's John Maynard Keynes on the one side, arguing for deficit spending to offset the aftereffects of a once-in-a-lifetime financial crisis. On the other side there's Ludwig von Mises (his fellow Austrians Joseph Schumpeter and Friedrich von Hayek seem too moderate for the role), thundering that all govern/ment intervention in the economy is doomed to failure.
Keynes and Mises are of course both long dead. But it is the resilience of their ideas that makes studying the history of economics so rewarding for non/economists. As a rule, economists don't know much about history. So at times like these, anyone with a bit of familiarity with the giants of the past can weigh in on big economic issues with about as much authority and credibility as the credentialed experts. 
This is one explanation for the continuing popularity of Robert L. Heilbroner's book ''The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times and Ideas of the Great Economic Thinkers.'' Another is that once a book makes its way onto undergraduate required-/reading lists, as Heilbroner's did, it doesn't easily fall off. Heilbroner wrote his irreverent group portrait of Keynes, Schumpeter, Karl Marx, Adam Smith and others in the early 1950s while studying for a doctorate at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan. (Mises was so marginalized at the time he didn't rate a mention.) He died in 2005, but his book lives on, with more than four million copies sold.
That kind of success makes a tempting target for imitators, and over the past decade, word spread among economics writers that Sylvia Nasar was at work on a new ''Worldly Philosophers'' -- something to update and possibly supplant Heil/broner. Nasar is no knockoff artist; a professor at Columbia Journalism School and a former economics correspondent for The New York Times, she wrote what is perhaps the best economics-/related book of the past quarter-/century, ''A Beautiful Mind,'' a near-perfect biography of the game theorist John Nash.
Now Nasar's new book, ''Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius,'' is here. As it turns out, it isn't really a Heilbroner update. For one, it doesn't make much chronological headway: the postwar giants Paul Samuelson and Milton Friedman get a few pages, as does the philosopher and development economist Amartya Sen, who is still alive and writing books. But the major developments of post-1950 economics are for the most part ignored. So, for that matter, are the major developments of pre-1850 economics. Heilbroner was out to provide an easy-to-digest survey of economic thought through the ages. Nasar has set herself a task at once narrower and more ambitious. She has a story to tell, a story of tragedy, triumph and, as the subtitle says, economic genius.
In the hundred years from 1850 to 1950, economists progressed from fatalistically explaining why most of humanity was condemned to poverty or worse (theirs was the ''dismal'' science, Thomas Carlyle wrote) to doing something about it. One early hero of Nasar's tale is Alfred Marshall, the 19th-century English economist who not only gave us the supply-and-/demand charts that still dominate Economics 101 classes but was the first to describe how rising industrial productivity could create higher living standards for all. Another is Beatrice Webb, an English railroad magnate's daughter who made the case for a welfare state that would even out some (but not all) of the inequalities arising from capitalist growth.
At the core of Nasar's narrative is an account of the economically troubled decades between the two world wars, as told through the experiences of Keynes, Irving Fisher, and Schumpeter and Hayek. The least well known of this lot is Fisher, a Yale professor best remembered today for his insistence in 1929 that stock prices were perched upon a ''permanently high plateau.'' He was also the founder of modern monetary economics (his adherents include Milton Friedman and Ben Bernanke) and for a time a successful entrepreneur (he invented and commercialized a precursor to the Rolodex).
Fisher believed that free markets were prerequisites for prosperity, but that their functioning could be improved with government action, mainly monetary policy by central banks. Keynes, himself a successful speculator and investor, held similar beliefs but came to espouse more aggressive government action than Fisher. Which leaves Schumpeter and Hayek. In modern political shorthand, they were champions of free enterprise, their ideas wielded in opposition to those of the socialist Keynes. But Keynes was a capitalist, albeit a sometimes conflicted one. And Schumpeter and Hayek, while skeptical of most politicians, were far from anti/government absolutists.
The two men's views were shaped in Vienna in the terrible years after the end of World War I and the fall of the Austro-/Hungarian Empire. Schumpeter did a stint as finance minister in a socialist government in 1919, an episode in his life that is usually treated as a joke, but Nasar renders it as a densely detailed tragedy. Schumpeter had a sensible plan for addressing Austria's ills, but no politician would go for it, and he was thrown out of government after seven months. Hayek spent part of the 1920s chronicling his country's travails at an economic-/forecasting institute (founded by his mentor Mises). By the time the two made their way west in the early 1930s -- Schumpeter to Harvard, Hayek to the London School of Economics -- they had become understandably critical of the notion that politicians could easily fix what ailed the economy.
But they weren't so sure that economists couldn't come up with solutions. Schumpeter was mentor at Harvard to Samuelson, who became a great expositor of Keynes's ideas, while Hayek befriended Keynes and in Nasar's telling had come around by the 1940s to embracing at least a few Keynesian prescriptions.
The epic of intellectual progress Nasar wants to tell is not an unmitigated success. It doesn't entirely square with the facts she so ably digs up. There is frequently tension between her overall theme of progress in economic thought and the individual stories she relates. And her last few chapters offer not a rousing finale, but a muddled letdown. Still, the book as a whole is made up of so many wonderful parts that one is inclined to excuse its shortcomings.
In the end, the economists whose lives Nasar describes are depicted as one more or less happy family (with the exception of Keynes's disciple Joan Robinson, whose infatuation with Communism is recounted in perplexing detail), advocates of an economy with free enterprise and free markets at its core, but a significant amount of government meddling to make things work better. In fact there was such a synthesis, its details hammered together by Samuelson, who gets a chapter late in the book but still feels underdescribed, and by a host of other young economists who go unmentioned. Within a few decades that synthesis began to disintegrate, leaving us with the debates we witness today.
That, however, is another story. Nasar writes that since 1950 we have enjoyed an age of global prosperity that even the Great Recession has been unable to derail. A permanently high plateau of prosperity, you might say. There's something unnerving about such confidence. But you don't have to share it in order to appreciate this rich, in places dazzling, history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The English economist Alfred Marshall, in 1892. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ELLIOTT & FRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); PHILOSOPHY (88%); HISTORY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WRITERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



408 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Moral Wilderness

BYLINE: By HELEN SCHULMAN. 
Helen Schulman's most recent novel is ''This Beautiful Life.''

 BODY:
LOST MEMORY OF SKIN
By Russell Banks
416 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $25.99.
In a country now famous for its second acts -- the philandering politician, the reformed insider trader, Charlie Sheen -- virtually the only American denied another chance is the sexual offender, branded in perpetuity, his whereabouts tracked by the government, a modern-day boogeyman unable by law in many states to live anywhere even remotely habitable. In his 12th novel, ''Lost Memory of Skin,'' the formidable Russell Banks bravely explores this specific plight, trying to find humanity in people who are feared and despised, frequently for good reason, and raising questions not only about the often horrendous public treatment of these outcasts but also about the ways the larger culture may contribute to their crimes.
As a vehicle he has created a memorable character, known as the Kid, a young man so lost and lonely and deprived it would take a heart of stone not to feel for him even at his most repulsive. Abandoned by his father, uncared for by his mother, it is no wonder that as a preteen without friends -- except for his giant pet iguana, Iggy -- the Kid fell into the dark Oz of online porn to assuage his isolation and boredom. 
Now, at 22, he is a paroled sex offender, forced to live with a tracking device clamped to his ankle among his fellow social lepers in an ad hoc colony of felons beneath a viaduct. His crime? After stumbling onto a chat line on Craigslist, the Kid arranged to meet an underage girl with the handle ''brandi18'' at her home while her parents were away. Recently discharged from the Army for planning to distribute pornography to his fellow soldiers in an effort to win favor, and now unemployed, the Kid arrived for the assignation via city bus with a backpack full of beer, condoms, X-rated movies, lubricant and high hopes ''to bump up against and break through an invisible membrane between the perfectly controlled world locked inside his head and the endlessly overflowing unpredictable, dangerous world outside.'' Instead, he was greeted by Brandi's father and five cops who ''do like a SWAT team takedown.'' Convicted of soliciting sex with a minor, he spent three months in jail and was released on good behavior into a world where he was forbidden for the next 10 years both to leave the jurisdiction and to reside within 2,500 feet of anywhere children gather. In the Miami-like Floridian coastal city Banks has invented, this leaves three housing choices: a swamp, an airport or a dry spot underneath a causeway. The Kid has pitched his tent there among ''the polyethylene lean-tos . . . and the salvaged plywood huts nearby and the men who live in them standing around like bored ghosts.'' He calls himself the Kid because his real name, typed into a search engine, will prevent him from renting an apartment or landing a job, and also because ''it's what he looks like anyhow: a kid.'' The fact that after all he's been through the Kid is still a virgin is yet another way Banks underscores his innocence (to use a loaded word).
This is bleak stuff, with flashes of humor that land like sparks on dry grass, and also pretty fascinating. A two-time Pulitzer Prize finalist, Banks may be the most compassionate fiction writer working today, and the Kid is only his most recent lens into the souls of seemingly decent men who do terribly indecent things out of ignorance, thirst and desperation in a deeply uncaring world. Balancing impressively on a moral tightrope, Banks never absolves the Kid of his actions even as he sympathizes with him.
The plot kicks in when a police raid scatters the truly pathetic and creepy inhabitants of this ramshackle community, and brings in the Professor -- a genius sociologist and mystery man of astonishing physical bulk and gluttony. He can eat for pages. His fridge holds ''containers of ready-to-eat food -- potato salad, macaroni and cheese, beef stew, lamb stew, curried chicken, fried chicken, pork dumplings, chicken pot pies, half a ham, chunks of cheese, egg salad, tuna salad, sliced meats, marinated tuna steaks, mashed squash, creamed spinach, meat loaf, Cuban, Chinese and Indian takeout . . . and much, much more.'' Drawn to the ravaged tent city, he finds the Kid, who reminds him (and us) of Huck Finn, and arrogantly, generously intends to ''cure'' him.
The Professor can also theorize for pages, and his ideas ''are rapidly evolving'': ''When a society commodifies its children . . . the children gradually come to be perceived by the rest of the community and by the children themselves as sexual objects.'' He later expands on this thinking about pedophilia: ''If it is a mental illness, then the entire society is to one degree or another sick with it. Which makes it normal.'' Normal? Then again, the Professor's normal may not be everyone's, given his own sexual proclivities (masturbating on a ''forest green leather Barcalounger'' while his wife poses naked) and his secrets and lies (he claims he was a spy and a double agent for ''black-box agencies'' that ''aren't as well known as the F.B.I. and C.I.A.''). Indeed, the Professor's blatant grotesquerie makes him a disturbingly original character -- there's nothing quite like him in American literature -- but also, at times, an unfathomable one. His theories and ideas, extrapolated and repetitive, loom large and heavy in this novel. To be honest, and perhaps this is my bad, by the end of the book I still couldn't completely make sense of him.
After a skillfully rendered hurricane and a trip into the heart of darkness in a swamp, the Kid is delivered by the Professor's thorny games of deceit and manipulation into an association with the novel's slightest character: a magazine writer who, as Banks describes him, looks a little like both Ernest Hemingway and Banks himself. This writer derails the narrative while cheerfully and peculiarly extracting the best from a hideous situation and an unsettling ending. Here is what he leaves us with: ''What you've got to do, Kid, is forget logic, admit its limitations, suspend your disbelief and believe!''
This may sound like advice for a Disney heroine, but at its hyper-real best ''Lost Memory of Skin'' is proof that Banks remains our premier chronicler of the doomed and forgotten American male, the desperate and the weak, men whose afflictions and antagonists may change over the years but whose fundamental struggle never does. As a side note, you can also plot key moments in cultural devolution through Banks's books. In ''Continental Drift'' (1985), Banks's doomed protagonist Bob Dubois has a fleeting moment of grace when, in a desperate hour, he runs into the great retired ballplayer Ted Williams in a bait and tackle shop, ''and it's as if he's stumbled onto a saint or an angel.'' Twenty-six years later, the Kid enjoys a similarly transcendent moment when he spots O. J. Simpson: the Kid's ''legs go all watery and his breathing turns shallow and fast. . . . The Kid has never been this close to a real coldblooded killer before. He somehow hadn't realized O. J. Simpson was a real person and not just a famous killer who existed only on TV.'' If you're looking for a quick way to explain the last three or four decades of American life, the arc from Williams to O. J. isn't a bad one.
And by the end of this ambitious, complex and not wholly coherent story, the Kid knows, as Bob Dubois with his illusions of exceptionalism did not, that he ''is not a victim.'' The only one heroic enough to save the Kid is the Kid himself. Redemption, in Banks's America, is harder won than ever.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING OF RUSSELL BANKS BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); PAROLE (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); FELONIES (72%); CHILDREN (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); MOVIE RATINGS (65%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: CHARLIE SHEEN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Lost Memory of Skin (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



409 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Thomas W. Toomey

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Toomey, 51, is the president and chief executive of UDR, a real estate investment trust specializing in multifamily developments. The company, based in Highlands Ranch, Colo., entered the New York market only this past spring, with the acquisition of 10 Hanover Square in the financial district. It has since added three other properties: Rivergate in Murray Hill, 21 Chelsea, and 95 Wall.
Interview conducted and condensed by VIVIAN MARINO 
Q UDR has been moving into Manhattan in a big way.
A It's part of our long-term growth strategy. Manhattan has a lot of the attributes I'm looking for in a market: Over 70 percent of the people rent; housing is not very affordable; it has a large cohort of 20- to 35-year olds; and lastly, there are a lot of value-created opportunities.
All four of our acquisitions have similar characteristics -- they're well occupied but operating below optimal level. Rents are below market, and expenses are above. We saw in all four an opportunity to enhance the quality of the community. We actually redevelop these properties. And then we raise the rent.
Q Have you done much work on these buildings yet?
A In 10 Hanover we certainly have. Physically it's been hallways and interiors. And we're modifying at the service level. We have an electronic platform that lets residents do business with us 24/7 on any device: pay rent, renew a lease, have anything fixed.
We're in the planning phases for Rivergate. We will put in a fitness center 7,000 to 10,000 square feet; new interiors; new windows; and change out the lobby and hallways.
Chelsea has just begun. We're mocking up and testing different kitchen scenarios. We have to change out the lobby fixtures, put in more bike-friendly storage, and then we'll go into the individual apartment homes and give them kitchens.
At Wall, we're still in the planning phases. It was rehabbed in 2008. We don't see much physical needs -- we see service needs.
Q How much do you expect to spend on these projects?
A Over all we're looking at probably $75 million, and it'll be over the next three-year period.
Q By how much will rents be raised afterward?
A The average rent that we've been raising on things after we've changed them have been somewhere around 14 percent.
Q So no more concessions?
A Not in Manhattan.
Q How does New York compare with other markets?
A I'm in 20 markets. I would rank it in probably in the top quartile in terms of stability. Right now the best markets are probably San Francisco and Seattle, primarily driven by the tech jobs re-emergence, followed by D.C. and Boston, and then New York. Our weakest is probably Florida.
Q Do you have long-term goals for the New York market?
A Absolutely. Today we're a $10 billion enterprise with low leverage, and we see ourselves growing to $12- to $15 billion. Manhattan would be 15 percent of that, and so as the entire enterprise grows, part of it will grow here in Manhattan. I think we'll mostly stay on Manhattan -- we probably won't go off in the boroughs.
Q What are your renters looking for these days?
A Our target renter is 20 to 35. I think what they're really looking for is flexibility, to be able to conduct business on their own terms. That means that it's self-service, and that it's 24/7. Now, physically, I think the millennium generation is looking for what they grew up in: big common areas full of amenities like pools and fitness centers and social areas, and they're looking for connectivity and socialization. We give the Wi-Fi away for free.
Q Are you flexible with lease lengths, too?
A The resident can pick any number of lease terms, from 3 to 13 months. We try to incentivize you to have your leases mature. Rent is probably 5 to 7 percent higher for a short-term lease, because our costs are higher.
Q Economic conditions seem to have made renting more popular.
A We're seeing a greater number of renters who don't want to be tied down by a home. They want to be able to move wherever the jobs are, whatever opportunities are. Consumers are also deleveraging themselves and do not want to commit to a home.
Q So business is good?
A On a scale of 1 to 10, business is about an 8, and trending up.
I've had $2 billion in acquisitions over the last 12 months, with $1.3 billion in Manhattan.
And I have about $1 billion in development -- that's about 4,000 apartment homes. It will be D.C., Seattle, San Francisco and Southern California.
Q What will be your next acquisition in New York?
A We're still shopping.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



410 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Where Have You Gone, Joe DiMaggio?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
THE melancholy over Steve Jobs's passing is not just about the loss of the inventor of so many products we enjoy. It is also about the loss of someone who personified so many of the leadership traits we know are missing from our national politics. Those traits jump out of every Jobs obituary: He was someone who did not read the polls but changed the polls by giving people what he was certain they wanted and needed before they knew it; he was someone who was ready to pursue his vision in the face of long odds over multiple years; and, most of all, he was someone who earned the respect of his colleagues, not by going easy on them but by constantly pushing them out of their comfort zones and, in the process, inspiring ordinary people to do extraordinary things. 
There isn't a single national politician today whom you would describe by those attributes, which is why the fake Jobs obituary published in The Onion, the satirical newspaper, struck such a nerve. It began by saying: ''Steve Jobs, the visionary co-founder of Apple Computers'' -- and the only American in the country who had any clue what he was doing -- ''died Wednesday at the age of 56.'' It went on to quote President Obama as saying that Jobs ''will be remembered both for the life-changing products he created and for the fact that he was able to sit down, think clearly, and execute his ideas -- attributes he shared with no other U.S. citizen. 'This is a dark time for our country, because the reality is none of the 300 million or so Americans who remain can actually get anything done or make things happen.' ''
Ouch! Fortunately, the last part is not true. There are still thousands of U.S. innovators who embody Steve Jobs's most important attribute: They didn't get the word. They didn't get the word that we're down and out. They didn't get the word that we're in a recession. They didn't get the word that Germany is going to eat our breakfast and that China is going to eat our lunch, so they just go out and invent stuff and make stuff and export stuff. Like Jobs, they just didn't get the word -- and thank God.
But we're not doing them justice because our political system is not providing these entrepreneurs what they need to thrive in the 21st century. Think of how cramped and uninspiring our national debate has become. It is all about cutting, filibustering, vetoing and blaming -- or solving our problems by either untaxing or taxing millionaires alone.
Neither party is saying: Here is the world we are living in; here are the big trends; here is our long-term plan for rolling up our sleeves to ensure that America thrives in this world because it is not going to come easy; nothing important ever does.
What is John Boehner's vision? I laugh just thinking about the question. What is President Obama's vision? I cry just thinking about the question. The Republican Party has been taken over by an antitax cult, and Obama just seems lost. Obama supporters complain that the G.O.P. has tried to block him at every turn. That is true. But why have they gotten away with it? It's because Obama never persuaded people that he had a Grand Bargain tied to a vision worth fighting for.
We cannot bail or tax-cut our way to prosperity. We can only, as Jobs understood, invent our way there. That is why America needs to be for the world in the 21st century what Cape Canaveral was to America in the 1960s: the place where everyone everywhere should want to come to start up and make something -- something that makes people's lives more productive, healthy, comfortable, entertained, educated or secure.
To do that, we need to reinvigorate our traditional formula for success -- quality education and infrastructure, open immigration, the right rules to incentivize risk-taking and government-financed scientific research. But to do all that in a recession means we have to cut spending, raise tax revenues and invest in this formula. And to do that, we need a Grand Bargain that involves upfront spending plus credible, long-term fiscal reform that is at the true scale of our debt problem. Obama has given the spending plan, but he has not produced a credible, this-really-hurts fiscal plan -- and many Americans know it. The paucity of Obama's audacity is striking.
Sometimes the news is in the noise, like the Wall Street protests or the Tea Party. But sometimes the news is also in the silence. To me, the biggest protest in the country today is that when the Tea Party insanely blocked any G.O.P. participation in a Grand Bargain that involved taxes, most Americans were silent. Why? Because they didn't think Obama was offering a big plan from his side, either -- one that rose to the true scale of our problems and aspirations, one that would push us out of our comfort zone and make us great.
''The country has been way ahead of the politicians,'' argues Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster. ''They are impatient with the small and the short term. Voters totally understand the scale of the problem facing the country, and they are looking for leaders who are ready to step up and offer a big vision -- and don't try to fool them with things that don't address the long-term challenges.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS FUCHS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); VETO (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); FILIBUSTER (61%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



411 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TALK; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: The Godfather

BYLINE: By ANDREW GOLDMAN

 BODY:
Many have compared the mood of England when you became prime minister in 1997 to the euphoria that greeted Barack Obama's election. Did you imagine what Obama was thinking on election night? I knew exactly what he'd be feeling. When you're fighting to win, your time line is focused on the victory. The moment you know you've got the victory is just, literally, like entering into a new, very unfamiliar territory that's got lots of flashing lights, and it can be very hard to feel comfortable at first. I spent my first few months in office mostly anxious because of the weight of the responsibility and my awareness of my own ignorance.
You wrote in your book, ''A Journey,'' that you noticed a point as you were campaigning against John Major's government that once the public soured on it, ''even when it was in the right . . . it didn't seem to matter.'' Do you see Obama in this place right now? On the contrary. I think what he's doing is articulating actually a pretty sensible center-ground position. I mean, look, I've been through all this, and I find a lot of this liberal critique of him just absurd. 
Which part? This ''what does he stand for?'' idea. What he stands for is absolutely clear. He's trying to lead America out of a very difficult economic situation, which every developed country in the world shares, by the way, and he's trying to do it on the basis that's fair.
Much has come to light about your post-Downing Street visits to Muammar Qaddafi. Considering that you've long highlighted Saddam Hussein's human rights abuses as a reason he needed to go, how do you justify this kind of relationship? Qaddafi took a definitive set of steps to change the position of his country. He stopped being someone who sponsored terrorism, gave up the nuclear and chemical program. That made the world a safer place.
Since Tripoli fell, letters have been found there from you thanking Qaddafi profusely for his hospitality, thanking his son Saif for sending you his ''interesting'' London School of Economics thesis. There's been outrage from some of the families of the Lockerbie bombing. Once they make the change and they come in from the cold, you're going to have proper relations. It was the U.S., actually, that took them off the state-sponsored terrorism list. He had state visits in Paris, Brussels, Rome. Britain was only ninth in terms of trade with Libya. None of that diminishes the horror of what happened in Lockerbie or my total condemnation of it, but if you're able to get someone to change, it's a good thing.
You write, ''I came to have a grudging respect and even liking of Rupert Murdoch.'' It was recently revealed that you are a godfather to his daughter Grace. That's practically family. The curious thing is that I got to know him and the family better since leaving office. I wouldn't have become a godfather of a child on the basis, the knowledge and relationship I had with Rupert Murdoch when I was in office.
But are you comfortable having people know how close you are with him? For me, it's a private thing. Look, there's no secret that I know Rupert Murdoch and that the Murdoch press backed me. I know all the British newspaper proprietors. The idea you've got the evil Rupert Murdoch here and these lovely other people there is not quite right.
In your book, you compliment Murdoch for his ''balls.'' ''A Journey'' also includes a reference to your former press secretary Alastair Campbell's ''clanking great balls.'' You have an aide willing to ''squeeze the balls'' of anyone who interferes with your schedule. You're wincing a bit . . . Yeah, I am wincing at that one. Is there a bit in the index that says ''balls''?
Unfortunately there's not. Would you also describe strong women in politics as having balls? It would obviously be gynecologically inaccurate, but I think they'd know what I meant. Some of the toughest people I came across in politics were women. The thing about politics is that you very quickly distinguish the people who've got . . . the courage.
INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN OTH) GRAPHIC: 'There's no secret that I know Rupert' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TERRORISM (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (62%); BOMBINGS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (52%) SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



412 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Them Down

BYLINE: By SHERI BERMAN. 
Sheri Berman is a professor of political science at Barnard College and the author, most recently, of ''The Primacy of Politics: Social Democracy and the Making of Europe's Twentieth Century.''

 BODY:
THE REACTIONARY MIND
Conservatism From Edmund Burke to Sarah Palin
By Corey Robin
290 pp. Oxford University Press. $29.95.
The American right has a lot to answer for these days. Members of this group are ardent peddlers of conspiracy theories, anti-intellectualism and the demonization of opponents. This approach has contributed in no small way to the sorry state of contemporary American politics, where epithets have replaced arguments, a sense of common destiny seems lacking among citizens and compromise has become almost impossible on the most pressing national issues. A book documenting the wreckage and carefully tracing the links between right-wing ideas, policies and outcomes would be a significant contribution to public debate. Unfortunately, Corey Robin's ''Reactionary Mind'' is not that book.
The twin goals of this collection of previously published essays are to provide a coherent definition of conservatism and reveal the ideology's flaws through detailed analysis of various conservative thinkers and arguments. The book's problems lie not in concept, but in execution. Driven to distraction by anger at his subject, Robin ends up reproducing many of the pathologies he is trying to criticize. The result is a diatribe that preaches to the converted rather than offering much to general readers sincerely trying to under/stand the right's role in contemporary American political dysfunction. 
Robin's definition of conservatism is unquestionably provocative. He starts by echoing arguments made by Samuel Huntington and others about conservatism being a situational ideology, one arising in reaction to a fundamental challenge to an existing order and devoted to preserving traditional institutions. But Robin then adds a substantive component. Conservatism, he argues, involves a reaction to certain kinds of challenges in particular, those by ''subject'' or ''subordinate'' classes. It is thus an inherently elitist and hierarchical ideology, whose essence is the defense of elite privileges against challenges from below.
The more one thinks about such a definition, the more problematic it becomes, because there is simply no way to lump all the figures and ideas one associates with conservatism under this rubric. Take the two figures mentioned in the book's subtitle, Edmund Burke and Sarah Palin. Burke fits the situational definition of conservatism well, since he was concerned with preserving institutions that had been tested ''in terms of history, God, nature and man,'' as Huntington once wrote. This led him to defend Whig institutions in England and democratic institutions in America, since he believed they were each anchored in their particular societies and traditions. But it also led him to champion the cause of people subjected to the injustices of British imperialism, which tended to destroy traditional institutions in the colonies.
Palin, meanwhile, is nothing if not an anti-elitist, so she has little legitimate place in Robin's system at all. In fact, the most powerful part of the modern right has been not elitist but populist. This is certainly true of the 20th century's most successful right-wing movements, Fascism and National Socialism, which had mass and cross-class appeal and were real (if perverted) responses to genuine societal grievances and problems. They were anti-elitist and deliberately destroyed the traditional orders in the countries where they gained power. The strongest right-wing movements in the West in more recent decades have been populist as well, drawing their support from and directing their programs at the frustrations and anger of a wide variety of ordinary citizens.
Robin cannot or will not accept this, insisting instead that conservatism is always, at its core, about subjugating society's lower orders. He thus has to explain away right-wing populism as some sort of trick designed to ''harness the energy of the mass in order to reinforce or restore the power of elites.'' Suffice it to say that reliance on conspiracy theories and false-consciousness explanations to dispose of inconvenient evidence is always a bad sign.
The essays in ''The Reactionary Mind'' devoted to individual conservative thinkers and their arguments are often unconvincing as well. They contain smart and interesting points, but are so filled with exaggeration and invective that the reader's eyes roll. According to Robin, for example, ''the U.S. media practices a form of censorship that must be the envy of tyrants everywhere.'' And conservatives, he claims, ''far from being saddened, burdened or vexed by violence,'' are ''enlivened by it.''
The vituperation reaches a peak in an essay called ''Protocols of Machismo,'' in which Robin argues that the entire concept of national security lacks any meaning or validity and is merely a device used by conservatives to justify violence and aggression against the world's marginalized peoples. Although the Bush administration's handling of Iraq gives unfortunate credence to such views, Robin takes his arguments too far, while engaging in a series of ad hominem attacks that portray America's leaders as essentially a bunch of evil idiots, ''perennially autistic,'' driven by a ''restless need to prove themselves, to demonstrate that neither their imagination nor their actions will be constrained by anyone or anything.'' And he suggests that even ''a casual reading of the history of national security suggests not only that the rules of evidence will be ignored in practice, but also that the notion of catastrophe encourages, even insists on, these rules being flouted.''
''The Reactionary Mind'' has higher intellectual ambitions than talk radio or the right-wing pulp nonfiction churned out by writers like Ann Coulter or Bernard Goldberg, but it ends up replicating their breathless Manichaean attitude. It takes too many cheap shots at the other side rather than bothering to explain why its own side is on balance more deserving. This is both a shame and a lost opportunity, because now more than ever the left needs to go beyond speaking to itself and try to persuade a broad general audience of the validity of its case.
Despite what Robin claims, the problems of advanced industrial democracies today are not all caused by elite cabals hellbent on keeping the lower orders in their place. Populist demagogues feeding off mass anger, frustration and despair are a much greater danger. The left's central challenge, accordingly, is how to address the public's real needs and get credit for doing so.
The questions Robin and his ideological confreres should really be asking themselves is why the contemporary left has been so bad at this, particularly in contrast to the contemporary right. Why, in an era of extreme unemployment, rising inequality and social dislocation, is it the right rather than the left that generated a movement like the Tea Party? Why are mass protests railing against tax increases rather than demanding more progressive and activist government?
The left's inability to reach out to ordinary citizens, to address them in ways that resonate with their most basic problems and concerns, is, while not the only cause, surely largely to blame. We have seen this so tragically in Barack Obama, who for all his rhetorical gifts has not managed to connect with the people, and often has not even bothered to try. Nor does Corey Robin. But until the left finds a way to do so, it should not be surprised that the public gravitates toward others who can -- even if they are on the other side of the political spectrum.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN STAUFFER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (77%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011



413 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: 2,000 Stage Sit In on a London Bridge to Protest Health Care Cuts

BYLINE: SARAH MASLIN NIR


HIGHLIGHT: More than 2,000 people protesting potential cuts to the national health care system staged a sit-in on Westminster Bridge in London. 

 BODY:
More than 2,000 people protesting potential cuts to the national health care system staged a sit-in on Westminster Bridge in London on Sunday afternoon, blocking traffic on one of the city's busiest bridges, The Guardian reports.
The rally was organized by a group called UK Uncut to draw attention to a bill scheduled to go before the Parliament's House of Lords this week. The bill, protesters say, could lead to sweeping changes to parts of the country's socialized health care system, the National Health Service. 
The changes are part of the health service's effort to find $31 billion in savings as Britain grapples with the recession's effects.
According to The Guardian, the proposed plan, led by the health secretary, Andrew Lansley, could
take the health service down the road of becoming a national insurance system, with care being provided by competing, state-owned, private and charity providers. Doctors and nurses get to control the services they run. Hospitals are put in a position where they will have to try to cut labor costs. One can argue over the details, but Tony Blair's own reforms would have taken the N.H.S. to the same place, albeit at a far more leisurely pace. Massive change at a time when the budgets are being slashed means there are fears that the rich will pay their way into better health and the poor will have to rely on charity.
Video of the protest, called Block the Bridge, Block the Bill, is being streamed live here.
Several speakers who say they have just arrived from Occupy Wall Street address the crowd.
Around 2 p.m. people in scrubs and hospital masks unfurled a banner over the side of the bridge that read "Save our NHS" The Guardian reports.

        
Occupy Anytown, U.S.A.
        
Video and Tweets From Athens
        
California's $8 Billion Surprise
        
Nevada Health Threat: A Clinic's Re-used Needles
        
Desperate Dentistry, Here and Abroad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH CARE (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); DENTISTRY (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%) health care; National Health Service; Occupy Wall Street; street protests; News

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



414 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1782 words

HEADLINE: The Party Spirit on Trial

BYLINE: AARON ASTOR


HIGHLIGHT: How the coming of the Civil War destroyed the two-party system. 

 BODY:
Richard C. Vaughan, an attorney in Lexington, Mo., was overjoyed with Abraham Lincoln's 1860 election. Not because the Republican Lincoln won; indeed, he had supported John Bell, the presidential candidate from the Constitutional Union Party. Rather, his joy came from the Democrats' resounding defeat. "The prospect of the final overthrow of the Democracy in Missouri as well as everywhere else," he wrote to a friend, "is to me a source of infinite and irrepressible pleasure in which I know you participate fully." 
Vaughan was, like many politically active Americans at the time (and since), a partisan, who cheered his party's advances the same way he would cheer a sports team. What's remarkable, though, was how flippantly he reacted to the obvious consequence of the 1860 election: secession and war. "No matter what sad disaster may follow," he wrote, "I shall regard it as a less grievous affliction than the continuance of that party in power." In other words, Vaughan would rather see his neighbors descend into fratricidal civil war than see the Democrats hold onto power.
To modern readers, Vaughan's reaction is shocking for its provincialism and naivete. A war was at hand, and all he cared about was local party politics? But it needs to be understood within its time and place. The party system defined American politics in a visceral way that today's voters would likely find alien. It encouraged public rituals and slogans, voter turnout machines, colorful personalities, elaborate partisan kickback schemes and a broader sense of national belonging. 
But by 1860, all that was falling apart: first Vaughan's own party, the Whigs, and then the Democrats. Vaughan found himself a partisan without a party, in a country torn apart by forces well outside of his control. Indeed the party system itself, which had defined American politics for decades, was falling apart, to be replaced by regional and national fusion parties that struggled to maintain unity in the face of a grinding war. 
The Democrat-Whig party structure, called the Second Party System, was established in the 1830s and pitted two different economic visions against each other. The Democrats, beginning under Andrew Jackson, embraced the yeoman farmer's republic, with government power decentralized to the states and localities, banks distrusted for encouraging indebtedness, industrialism rejected as practicably as possible, and expansionism celebrated for providing poorer whites more opportunities to own land. The Whigs, led by the Kentuckian Henry Clay, heralded the new industrial capitalist order, seeking federal support for banks and infrastructure improvement to help advance national commerce. 
But that seemingly stable two-party structure was not to last; if the parties were stable, the political landscape was not. Slavery proved their undoing. The Whigs collapsed first, after the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854 irrevocably split Northern and Southern Whigs. The new Republican Party carried much of the spirit of Northern Whiggery, but added in many free-soil Democrats concerned that pro-slavery "fire-eaters" from the Deep South had hijacked their party. 
In the Lower South, the Democrats welcomed in old Whigs to varying degrees, making sectional loyalty more important than partisanship. The new Southern militancy, empowered by the influx of Whigs, led to the Democratic Party's 1860 split between supporters of Illinoisan Stephen Douglas and Kentuckian John C. Breckinridge. 
For the northeastern, urban elite, these changes proved navigable. For the middle of the country, however, the collapsing party system offered confusion, frustration and a sense of impotence over national affairs. It was the only political structure most of them had ever known, and with its demise went a large part of how they defined their public identities.
The war made things even more confusing, as political leaders everywhere were forced to recalibrate old partisan alliances. Republicans joined forces with "War Democrats" across the North, occasionally, at the local level, renaming themselves Union parties to discourage partisanship amidst civil war. It was more than just posturing: in 1864, Republican Abraham Lincoln chose the pro-Union Tennessee Democrat Andrew Johnson as his running mate - the last time in American history when the president and vice president came from different parties. 
Not all Democrats put down their guard. Those of a more militant persuasion distanced themselves from the "war party" and called themselves "Peace Democrats," though they were more popularly known as "Copperheads." Others gave up all hope of finding a place in the new, wartime political ecosystem and fled to the Confederacy. 
Kentucky, ever the thorn in the political and military ambitions of Union and Confederate leaders alike, illustrates this party spirit on trial as well as anywhere. For decades the state boasted one of the strongest two-party systems in the nation. Lexington's own Henry Clay anchored its Whig Party, while the Democratic Party found plenty of Jacksonian backers from the eastern mountains to the western Jackson Purchase near Paducah. Together, the two parties helped solidify the Bluegrass State as one of the premier political engines of the West. 
When the national Whig Party collapsed in the 1850s, space opened for Kentucky Democrats, under the leadership of future governor Beriah Magoffin and Vice President John C. Breckinridge, to establish dominance in the state for the first time. However, ex-Whigs did not disappear. They merely changed their name, first to the American Party, then to the Know Nothings, the Opposition and, finally, the Constitutional Union Party. In this way, the two-party system held, for a time: whatever name the ex-Whigs chose, voters in Kentucky understood quite well that they were formidable rivals with the Democrats, regardless of the collapse of Whiggery elsewhere.
But the war brought any pretense of organized two-party politics to an end. Though his sympathies clearly lay with the Confederacy, Democratic Gov. Beriah Magoffin pledged neutrality once the Civil War began. The legislature - divided mostly between conservative Unionist ex-Whigs and Democrats - rejected any hasty calls for disunion. An August 1861 election confirmed the state's support for armed neutrality, though with most representatives sympathetic to the Union. After General Polk's ill-fated invasion of Columbus, Ky. in early September, the state declared its allegiance to the Union, and thousands of pro-Confederates - a disproportionate number of them Democrats like Breckinridge - left the state for good. 
Seeing old rivalries between Whigs and Democrats eclipsed by more pressing concerns, leaders in both parties declared a new party: the Union Democracy. This new fusion entity, buttressed by a loyalty oath and military intimidation, practically nullified all opposition. A small Republican Party offered vigorous support for Lincoln, while a deeply conservative (though nominally Unionist) faction called the States Rights Party badgered the new fusion party on matters of Federal interference and emancipation. But the Union Democrats were the only real game in town until the end of the war.
Such fusion arrangements lasted throughout the war, but collapsed as soon as its end appeared near. Partisan politics reemerged; across the North, Radical Republicans "waved the bloody shirt" and declared their Democratic opponents as disloyal scoundrels, hoping to instead build a coalition with newly freed black men in the former Confederacy and poorer whites in the Upland South. 
Repulsed by the ascendancy of the Radicals, Democrats in the Upper and Border South took a leading role in opposing Reconstruction, even if it meant re-empowering ex-Confederates. Emancipation and black soldier enlistment were, far and away, the gravest complaints that conservative Unionists in the border states expressed; they felt betrayed by their erstwhile allies, having supported a Union based on the continuation of slavery. In frustration, many turned to violence against black army recruits and refugees, especially around Camp Nelson, a training ground for black soldiers in Kentucky's southern Bluegrass region.
Returning Confederates, on the other hand, were welcomed back to Kentucky as heroes who had warned the "Union Democrats" that Radical Republicans would usurp the old conservative Union. Once their full voting rights were restored in late 1865, ex-Confederates reinvigorated the anemic States Rights Party, which simply renamed itself the Democratic Party. A third party of ex-Whigs, known as the Conservative Union Party, could not reconcile themselves at first to the rapid return of Confederates to power and privilege. But they found that the rank and file had found a new party spirit with the Democracy. 
A new political geography was set for a century: residents of the eastern mountains, African-Americans and some of the German immigrant communities in Louisville and northern Kentucky would side with the Republicans, while the large majority in the rest of the state would stick with the Democratic Party. The spirit of Henry Clay and the nationalist Whigs died, and Democratic Kentucky, despite occasional internal differences over matters of railroad development and mining, became a reliable part of the Solid South.
The party spirit would re-emerge across the nation as well. Republicans would largely abandon African Americans in the late 1870s, replacing their votes with the growing states of the mountain West. Democrats would forge an unwieldy coalition among the white South; urban, Northern immigrants; and small farmers and laborers across the country. New rituals and slogans would replace old ones, and only the occasional fusionist entity - like the Democratic-Populist alliance of the 1890s - would briefly upend the new party spirit. 
Whatever the long-term partisan implications of the Civil War, the immediate fallout reflected the challenges of Reconstruction and, especially, the emancipation of 4 million slaves. Richard C. Vaughan, who flippantly celebrated the loss of Missouri's Democrats in 1860 found himself a defender of the old racial order by 1865. He fought the state's Radical Republicans when they hired African Americans to remove a conservative judge in accordance with the state's new Radical constitution. Lexington's new viciously white supremacist newspaper - the Weekly Caucasian - celebrated Vaughan for resisting Radical rule, and for becoming, at long last, a Democrat.

        
Why Bismarck Loved Lincoln
        
Up South
        
Killing Jeff Davis
        
Evangelicals, Republicans and the Civil War
        
Lincoln's Rhetorical Fireworks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); SPORTS (54%); SPORTS & RECREATION (54%) abraham lincoln; Democratic Party; Republican Party; the civil war; Clay, Henry; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); United States Politics and Government; Kentucky; Disunion

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: Clay, Henry; Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (73%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



415 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: 'Tavis Smiley' on Poverty Tour

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER


HIGHLIGHT: This week the "Tavis Smiley" show on PBS will report on the host's 11-state tour to focus attention on poverty in the United States. 

 BODY:
Tavis Smiley has described it as "a call to conscience."
An 11-state tour by Mr. Smiley and Cornel West, the Princeton professor, to raise awareness about poverty in America will be translated onto television starting on Monday. All five episodes this week of the PBS program "Tavis Smiley" will focus on the subject, which is one that antipoverty advocates say is all too often slighted by television news programs.
Mr. Smiley said that many of the poor Americans he met on the tour feel the same way.
"They sense that they're being rendered invisible," he said in a telephone interview last week. "They sense that the focus has been on Wall Street, not Main Street, much less on the side street."
Mr. Smiley says he agrees, and hopes the PBS series will be a partial antidote.
Each night his show will start with taped reports about people in poverty, products of the tour. Then it will segue to interviews with antipoverty advocates like Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary; Jeffrey D. Sachs, the economist; and Vicki B. Escarra, the president and chief executive of the hunger-relief group Feeding America.
Mr. Smiley says he hopes the reports will illustrate the problems and the interviews will propose solutions.
"When you can humanize the statistics, there's a better chance that people will feel compelled to wrestle with or grapple with the issue," Mr. Smiley said, describing himself as an advocacy journalist. He held a round-table discussion about poverty on his radio show last Friday
Interest in the weeklong series might be lifted by the recent Census Bureau finding that nearly one in six Americans - 46.2 million - live in poverty, the highest number ever reported by the bureau. The finding was widely reported in the news media last month.
Mr. Smiley's poverty tour with Dr. West took place in August and covered 11 states by bus. Many nights, Mr. Smiley said, he and Dr. West stayed with poor families. He recounted meeting a group of homeless people who stayed near the United States Capitol and a man and woman who were filing for divorce for economic rather than emotional reasons.
Summarizing his findings, he said, "The new poor are the former middle class."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); CENSUS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%) Smiley, Tavis; West, Cornel; Poverty; Television; Public Broadcasting Service; United States; Tavis Smiley (TV Program)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (92%) Public Broadcasting Service

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (51%) Smiley, Tavis; West, Cornel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



416 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Art Is Fleeting, at Least When It's in the Sky

BYLINE: ELIZABETH A. HARRIS


HIGHLIGHT: A plane was skywriting short phrases over the Hudson River and the West Side of Manhattan as part of an art project, called The Sky Is The Limit/NYC. 

 BODY:
On a warm, clear Sunday afternoon, many New Yorkers looked up and saw not a cloud in the sky - except for the ones that were talking to them. 
Just after 4 p.m., a plane began skywriting short phrases over the Hudson River and the West Side of Manhattan as part of an art project, called "The Sky Is The Limit/NYC." 
Some of the idioms were a bit daunting. "Lost Our Lease" read the first batch of fluffy clouds. "Last Chance," puffed the next (though for what, it did not say). The third, "Now Open," was somewhat sunnier. 
Kim Beck, the artist behind this chatty skyscape and an associate professor of Art at Carnegie Mellon University, explained that these phrases were taken from the kind of sign you might see hanging in the window of a store, especially in this economic climate.
"They're advertising messages that are no longer advertising anything specific," Ms. Beck said. " 'Lost Our Lease' can speak to the feeling of being exhausted, and 'Last Chance' is everything coming to an end. 'Now Open' means something else as well." 
The project, sponsored by the Friends of the High Line, lasted about two hours from start to finish and prompted a flurry of questions on Twitter. Some wondered if it was an advertisement, or a part of the Occupy Wall Street movement. A few people remarked that the clear blue sky and so many people with their eyes fixed overhead reminded them of Sept. 11. 
On the street, Ms. Beck said, people turned to one another and tried to sound out the words together. That moment of community, she said, and the arch of those phrases, ending with "Now Open," is a nod toward hope in difficult times.
"We don't really know what's happening in our economy," Ms. Beck said. "I'm hoping there's an optimism in that final text, and that it comes together as a bit of a narrative. That's my hope; to think positive." 

        
One Man's Art (a Submarine?) Runs Into Trouble
        
Washington, D.C., 4:43 P.M.
        
Hard Times for a Hell's Kitchen Mural
        
Where Stone Waits to Become Works of Art
        
The Hudson Is Red (but It's Probably Not a Sign to Repent)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (65%) Art; Hudson River; skywriting; The High Line; Beck, Kim

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (51%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: Beck, Kim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hudson River

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



417 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Was Failure Inevitable?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Maybe, but trying couldn't and can't hurt. 

 BODY:
Ezra Klein has a generally reasonable analysis of the Obama administration's failure to respond with sufficient force to the economic crisis. Broadly speaking, he's saying that the eurovenn applied: an economically adequate response lay beyond the bounds of the politically feasible.
In general, I'm trying not to do too much looking back; the question is what to do now. Still, I guess this needs addressing.
There's certainly a lot to Ezra's thesis. Yet I think he lets Obama and company off the hook too much. A few specific points:
1. I think too much is being made of the fact that subsequent revisions have shown that the economy was in even worse shape in early 2009 than we knew at the time. There was already plenty of evidence that it was in terrible shape and needed a much bigger boost than the administration proposed. And as regular readers know, this isn't 20-20 hindsight: I was frantic about this at the time.
2. The forecast that assumed rapid recovery even without stimulus has been a deep source of embarrassment, and remains inexplicable to me. We had lots of reason to believe that this was going to be a prolonged slump -- not just Reinhart Rogoff, but also the evidence of the last two US business cycles. Again, I was warning about this at the time.
3. This in turn means that the focus on fast-acting policies was misplaced. Shovel-ready wasn't as important as it was made out to be. And the stimulus would have been a lot closer to adequate if more of it had consisted of infrastructure spending rather than tax cuts.
4. Politically, the administration was wildly naive in believing that it could easily come back for more if the initial stimulus proved inadequate. Again, this isn't hindsight; I was frantic about this too, right from the beginning. If they thought this likely -- as they should have -- they should have laid the legislative groundwork for a second round, through reconciliation if necessary, right at the start.
5. Even without that groundwork, my sense is that there was a window for additional action in the fall of 2009, and that the administration sheered off from even trying.
6. Relatedly, the insistence of the administration that the stimulus was just right, long after it was obvious that it had been too small, did a lot of political damage. Remember the "summer of recovery"?
7. The political response to the new jobs bill has been pretty good -- which in turn strongly suggests that the "pivot" from jobs to deficit reduction in early 2010 was a big mistake. Maybe -- probably -- nothing could have passed; but the White House might have been able to make a better case by accusing Republicans of blocking job creation rather than adopting their rhetoric.
Now, Ezra may be right that none of this would have made much difference. But the White House was weak and confused in the face of a political and economic debacle, when it should have gone all out. 
And you know what? It should still go all out. The chances of success are lower than they would have been if it had taken a strong position two years ago, but it ain't over until it's over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); TAX LAW (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



418 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Everyone Seems Mad at Teammates

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Among Democratic and Republicans alike, there is the sort of locker-room backbiting that occurs when Yankee and Red Sox seasons end in ignominy. 

 BODY:
Every poll shows it: Americans are hopping mad at Washington.
Well, Washington's mad, too.
And not just mad in the familiar, tribal, partisan sense, the way historic rivals like the Yankees and the Red Sox seethe at each other when they compete in autumn for the American League pennant. Though there is plenty of that, as tantrums on the Senate floor last week made clear.
Among Democratic and Republicans alike, there is also the sort of locker-room backbiting that occurs when Yankee and Red Sox seasons end in ignominy (which just happened).
Congressional Democrats are mad at Democrats in the White House over prerogatives, consultation and divergent interests.
Senior Republicans on Capitol Hill are mad at junior Republicans over the balance between ideological zeal and political pragmatism.
Workhorses in the House are mad at divas in the Senate over everything, because they always are.
Former advisers to President Obama are mad at current advisers over economic and political strategy.
The White House staff is mad at the White House press corps over how its battles with Republican adversaries are covered.
As in baseball, the reasons become clear once you check the (poll) standings. With 2012 just around the corner, everyone here is losing. 
 Gamesmanship
The anger that erupted as the Senate considered a crackdown on China's trade policy encapsulated Washington's maddening dysfunction.
Democratic leaders were advancing what is called a "messaging bill" (designed for the majority to score political points). Republicans were trying to force Democrats into "bad votes" on amendments (point-scoring for the minority). Making law was secondary, since House leaders had vowed to block the bill (to the relief of the administration).
But Democrats, mad over a looming "bad vote" on the Obama jobs package they were rewriting, used a rare maneuver to block it. The Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, really mad now, accused Democrats of turning the chamber into the House - which senators disdain as their inferior in statesmanship.
Actually, the entire American political system is moving toward the House's predilection for reflexive, angry, ideologically fueled partisanship. The Senate's unique madness is its inability to act at all.
Of course, ideology runs so red-hot that sometimes the House can't act, either.
Four dozen Tea Party-inspired House Republicans last month angered and embarrassed their leaders by joining Democrats to defeat a spending bill including money for disaster relief. Senior Republicans saw those defectors as selfish showboats polishing their conservative reputations at the party's expense.
So Senate Republicans seized an opening for compromise with Senate Democrats, effectively imposing it on the House. That averted a fresh threat of government shutdown.
Summertime brinksmanship by House Republicans over the debt ceiling, which simultaneously damaged the nation's credit rating and the party's poll ratings, had already made Senate Republicans mad enough.
 In-House Anger
Intrasquad anger among Democrats, who stand to lose ground in 2012 Senate elections, can be worse.
The top Senate Democrat, Harry Reid of Nevada, considers the White House chief of staff, William M. Daley, to be ham-handed. Democratic leaders complain that Team Obama's zeal for secrets creates more problems than it solves.
For instance, Senate Democrats believe inadequate consultation led the White House to botch the unveiling of "pay-fors" for Mr. Obama's jobs package. Instead of reducing oil industry tax breaks and deductions for affluent taxpayers, which produced Democratic defections, they wanted the White House to adopt the "millionaire's surtax" that the Senate is now substituting.
Mr. Obama's advisers think Mr. Reid has overreacted to perceived slights. They view Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a persistent critic of administration tax strategy whom Mr. Reid promoted within the leadership, as a self-promoting know-it-all.
Within Mr. Obama's circle, recriminations include complaints that Mr. Daley and the White House political strategist David Plouffe invested too much faith for too long in their ability to strike a debt-ceiling "grand bargain" with the House speaker, John A. Boehner. Some Obama advisers look back at the springtime standoff over government spending as a missed opportunity to confront Republicans, risking a government shutdown then that might have averted debt-ceiling paralysis later.
Mr. Daley has reason to be mad. He thought he was returning to Washington after a decade's absence to soothe business leaders and strike confidence-building deals with Republicans.
So does Mr. Obama, who does not hide his frustration over the turn toward full-throated combat he now considers unavoidable. Nor do his aides hide theirs, over news accounts that they believe don't adequately fault Republicans.
That's what 9.1 percent unemployment, 39 percent presidential approval (in Gallup's weekend tracking) and 11 percent approval of Congress (in a CBS News poll last week) will do.
Washington in the political and economic dumps? It's a mad, mad, mad, mad world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ATHLETES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BASEBALL (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (63%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (61%) Daley, William M; Obama, Barack; Reid, Harry; Law and Legislation; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%) Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (71%); MITCH MCCONNELL (56%) Daley, William M; Obama, Barack; Reid, Harry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



419 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Group Urges More Money To Aid Poor In School

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
New York State already outspends the rest of the nation on education, and a group of education experts at Teachers College at Columbia University is calling for it to spend even more. 
At a conference on Tuesday, the Campaign for Educational Equity, an institute of the college, will make the case that the state, which spends an average of $18,126 annually per student, should also pay for an array of support services outside the classroom that would cost an additional $4,750 annually for every poor student, or millions more every year.
''This is not going the cheap way,'' said Michael A. Rebell, an education professor and lawyer who is executive director of the Campaign for Educational Equity. ''What we're saying is, if we're really serious about overcoming the achievement gap, students need these services to have a meaningful opportunity.''
While some educators have long supported such services for the poor, the governor and State Legislature would have to approve the increased education spending as part of the state's budget -- something that is unlikely given the tough fiscal times, according to some lawmakers, aides and lobbyists.
''We're always trying to strike a balance between protecting taxpayers and investing in shared priorities like education,'' said Scott Reif, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Republican from Long Island. ''However, the state is facing extraordinary fiscal challenges, including a $2 billion budget deficit next year that must be closed without raising taxes.''
Michael Whyland, a spokesman for the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said that while Mr. Silver recognized the needs of poor students, he believed that the first step should be to increase overall education spending for poor districts rather than to focus on separate spending for support services outside the classroom.
In papers to be presented at Tuesday's conference, Professor Rebell lays out the result of a five-year effort to determine the cost of providing the extra services to all poor students. Professor Rebell previously led the Campaign for Fiscal Equity's lawsuit against New York State, which brought billions of additional dollars for poor school districts.
Starting with prenatal care for mothers, the campaign's recommendation counts on 18 years of services -- through high school graduation -- that include extensive early child care and after-school and summer programs. It arrived at a total average cost per year of $13,900 a student. But after deducting current spending for these services and assuming that not all services would be used, among other factors, it came up with a total net cost of $4,750.
Acknowledging the state's economic challenges, Professor Rebell suggested that the state could initially offer some services to poor students with money raised through bond sales to private investors and foundations, and then phase in all the services as the economy improved.
Moreover, Professor Rebell said that he would like to see services extended to poor children elsewhere. Nationally, he said, the cost would be $4,230 more annually for every poor student. In New York City, because of higher costs, it would be $5,327.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); LITIGATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); APPROVALS (67%); BONDS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



420 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: After New Pledge to Leave, Signs of Yemeni President's Resolve to Linger

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Amid all the chaos and conflict that have engulfed Yemen, one fact seems immutable: President Ali Abdullah Saleh will not voluntarily leave office any time soon.
The vaguely worded pledge he issued Saturday to step aside appeared, a day later, to be just another feint. While he had seemed to be moving toward accepting a plan initially proposed in the spring by the Gulf Cooperation Council to cede power to a transitional government, two high-ranking Yemeni officials said Sunday that the country's foreign minister had traveled to the United Arab Emirates to offer the council a new plan. This one, they said, calls for Mr. Saleh to remain in office until elections next year.
There was no immediate confirmation, but Mr. Saleh has repeatedly suggested that he would accept some version of the original plan, only to shift away from any real concessions to the political opposition. (The political opponents have been willing to negotiate for his early departure, in contrast to the street protesters, who are adamant that he resign immediately.) 
A canny strongman who has ruled a fractured and impoverished country for 33 years, Mr. Saleh has withstood the pressure from both groups of opponents, as well as from regional powers and from a onetime ally, the United States. The serious injuries he suffered in June, when a fiery bomb exploded at the mosque in the presidential compound, forced him to seek months of treatment in Saudi Arabia, but could not ease his grip on power.
He has done no more than toy with the plan proposed in the spring by the Gulf Cooperation Council, which offers him and his family immunity. The governing party's new line is that ''he will remain president until the early elections,'' said one of the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The foreign minister, Abu Bakr al-Qirbi, has met with a number of diplomats in recent days, including envoys from Russia, China, the European Union, and -- just before leaving for the Emirates on Sunday -- the United States, according to the Saba news agency. Mr. Saleh's government has made much of its role in providing the United States with the crucial intelligence on the whereabouts of the American-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, enabling the C.I.A. to kill him in a drone strike at the end of September.
The council's political transition plan, known as the Gulf initiative, was vague from the start. It was devised to find a way to ease Mr. Saleh out of office after Yemen's antigovernment protests reached a crippling pitch. The governing party, including Mr. Saleh, initially agreed that after the initiative was signed he would immediately transfer all presidential authority to his deputy. However, Mr. Saleh, at the last second, went back on his promise to sign the agreement.
Since then, moderates from the government and opposition have bickered over details of the plan, which was revised many times, with the guidance of the international community, including to a very large extent the United States.
Yet no measure would satisfy what some say is Mr. Saleh's basic, nonnegotiable requirement: a plan that would not leave his foes a clear path to power.
''You know what stepping down means to him? It means surrendering to Ali Mohsin and Hamid al-Ahmar,'' said another high-ranking government official, naming Mr. Saleh's main concerns. Gen. Ali Mohsin al-Ahmar defected to the opposition in March; Mr. Ahmar (no relation) is a telecom billionaire and a scion of the country's leading tribal clan. Many government officials believe the two men are using the protest movement to vie for power, and the government blames them for the bomb attack on Mr. Saleh in June.
The deadlock has been costly. Antigovernment demonstrations rock major cities across Yemen, the economy is ruined, violence is flaring, and outlying provinces have fallen out of government control, in some cases into the hands of Islamic militants, some of whom are associated with the local affiliate of Al Qaeda.
Yemen's death toll remains low compared with that of other countries in revolt in the region, but it has been rising, with at least 100 people -- unarmed protesters and bystanders -- killed in September, caught in the cross-fire of a divided army. Taiz, Yemen's commercial capital in the central mountains, where the antigovernment movement was always the strongest, is a war zone, according to its residents.
Furthermore, while Mr. Saleh's political opposition has been willing to negotiate with the government, the disenchantment with him has deepened. Unlike the street protesters, the political forces are, like the government, heavily armed and ready to fight. But despite the danger of civil war, Mr. Saleh has dug in his heels to avoid what he sees as leaving the country to his rivals. Whatever concessions his party was willing to make when Mr. Saleh was in Saudi Arabia were rolled back when he returned.
Yassin Saeed Noman, the leader of Yemen's coalition of political opponents, known as the Joint Meetings Parties, said Mr. Saleh's return ''was negative for a political solution.''
He said: ''It was easy for the ruling party to proceed with the political process without Saleh. It was easier to negotiate, but under his direct leadership, what can they do?''
A few weeks ago, Mr. Noman displayed a document signed by a leading governing party official, signaling that the party was in agreement with the opposition as to the steps to be taken leading to transfer of power. That agreement was not formally announced, though the two sides said they were close to agreeing on how to enact the initiative.
That was on a Thursday night. Mr. Saleh returned on Friday morning.
Mr. Noman said the political opposition -- which has noted that Mr. Saleh's family has so far avoided being hit with sanctions -- wanted the international community to add even more pressure on the president to leave.
''Not just saying they will support, but we want real action,'' he said, sitting in the reception area of his Sana residence. When asked to specify an action, Mr. Noman, cautious with his words, replied, ''I think they have done a lot with other countries.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali Abdullah Saleh has evaded promises to leave office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YEMENI PRESIDENCY OFFICE, VIA E.P.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) YEMEN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



421 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Revamping Alcohol Laws

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''States Putting Hopes in 'Bottoms Up' to Help the Bottom Line'' (front page, Sept. 29), highlighting the modernization of state liquor laws to generate new revenue, missed the point by associating tax increases with the trend of state and local governments' repealing outdated alcohol laws like Sunday spirits sales bans. 
The reason state after state is modernizing liquor laws is to spur economic growth, create hospitality jobs and generate revenue without raising taxes.
Higher alcohol taxes damage local economies by costing hospitality jobs and burdening small businesses and consumers who are already reeling from the recession. Legislators understand that higher hospitality taxes hurt the economy, and that's why over the last decade more than 90 percent of alcohol tax attempts have failed.
Further, the article attributed to unnamed ''analysts'' the false notion that Sunday alcohol sales spread six days of sales over seven days. Every state that has allowed Sunday spirits sales has seen a significant increase in revenue. That's easy to understand given that Sunday is the second busiest shopping day of the week in our modern economy.
We trust that policy makers across the country, committed to finding new revenue without raising taxes, will continue to see the value in modernizing Prohibition-era alcohol laws.
PETER H. CRESSY President, Distilled Spirits Council of the United States Washington, Sept. 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (95%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%)

ORGANIZATION: DISTILLED SPIRITS COUNCIL OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



422 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: A Community Erased by Slum Clearance Is Reunited

BYLINE: By NATE SCHWEBER

 BODY:
The reunion at the Frederick Douglass Center in Manhattan on Saturday had all the trappings of a block party. About 75 people turned out, greeting one another with smiles, hugs and questions about neighbors and family. They ate chicken, macaroni and cheese and cake while a man blew soulful melodies on an alto saxophone.
The only thing missing was the block itself. 
Or rather, blocks. It has been more than half a century since the apartment buildings, businesses and even the church that filled nearby 98th and 99th Streets between Columbus Avenue and Central Park West were razed, in a giant a massive urban renewal project that created Park West Village, a six-square-block collection of apartment houses that now dominates the northern reaches of the Upper West Side.
''It was a great neighborhood to live in,'' said Linda Burstion, 65, who grew up on 98th Street and Columbus. ''I remember playing jacks, eating Icees, playing stickball and dodge ball, jumping double Dutch and when it got really hot out they would open up the fire hydrants.''
From about 1905 until the 1950s, West 98th and 99th Streets constituted a vibrant, predominantly African-American community that was something of a miniature Harlem, with its own Renaissance.
Philip A. Payton Jr., a real estate entrepreneur who wanted to end housing segregation, owned or managed most of the buildings on those blocks. The singer Billie Holiday lived there for a time, as did Arthur A. Schomburg, the historian and writer whose collection of art, manuscripts and photographs became the foundation for the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. Other residents included the author Rosa Guy and the actor Robert Earl Jones, the father of James Earl Jones. The actress Butterfly McQueen lived there for a time, and later in Park West Village.
''You could not imagine the talented people who lived in the old neighborhood,'' said Jim Torain, 69, who for the past decade has organized the reunions of what he calls the Old Community; the words were written in green frosting on the cake.
Title I of the Housing Act of 1949 set in motion the obliteration of the neighborhood. Robert Moses, in his position as chairman of the New York City Slum Clearance Committee, condemned the area, largely on the basis of median household income. It was razed piecemeal through the 1950s, and much of it sat as rubble until the early 1960s when the Park West Village apartments were built for middle-income residents.
The story eventually caught the attention of Jim Epstein, 33, a documentary filmmaker who grew up on 99th Street and Riverside Drive. He first learned of the destruction of the long-vanished neighborhood in ''The Power Broker,'' Robert A. Caro's biography of Moses.
''I discovered this huge community of people and realized right then that I had a story because I had these personal narratives combined with this big slum clearance- urban renewal project,'' Mr. Epstein said.
He began filming in 2007 and finished editing the six-minute film last year while working for the video journalism unit of Reason, a libertarian magazine. He showed the film at Saturday's reunion, to hearty applause. He called the abuse of eminent domain ''one of the subjects I'm most passionate about.''
Katherine Massenberg, 87, who compiled a census of every building with the names of the families in each apartment, said that as the decades passed, so too did much of her hurt.
''I have nothing but warm, fond memories of the Old Community,'' she said on Saturday. ''I just remember my good friends and family.''
Sheila McEachin, 69, was one of the last residents to move out in the late 1950s. She said she went back shortly afterward, but after seeing the blasted landscape, did not return.
''I was very angry about it because there was nothing wrong with our neighborhood,'' she said. ''It wasn't a slum; why tear it down?''
Emily Margolis, 81, moved to New York in 1955 and remembers seeing the rubble on West 98th and 99th Streets before she moved into Park West Village in 1965.
''It looked like war-torn Europe,'' she said. ''It was depressing, but it never occurred to me that previously it had been a vibrant community where people had been pushed out.''
On Saturday, Ms. Margolis and about 10 other residents of Park West Village went to the Frederick Douglass Center to share in the memories. One was Winifred Armstrong, 81, a Park West Village historian. She said she began attending Old Community reunions about 10 years ago.
''Their history is now our history; we're here to honor that history, share that history and move on,'' she said. ''We're now the Old Community No. 2.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A reunion brought together about 75 people who used to live on or near West 99th Street. Jim Epstein, left, made a documentary about the area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); WRITERS (86%); HISTORY (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); ART COLLECTING (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



423 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METROPOLITAN DIARY; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: A Good Samaritan Fumbles With an Umbrella

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
A drizzle is falling as we head uptown on the Eighth Avenue bus. A woman gets off and the doors close. A voice calls out in panic, ''She forgot her umbrella.''
A gentleman presses the tape, but the driver is concentrating on the changing light, so our good Samaritan thrusts the umbrella through the rubber seams of the door and tosses it on the sidewalk at the woman's feet.
She turns and registers great surprise just as a second voice calls out, ''Hey, that's my umbrella.'' 
We are about to pull away. From the sidewalk, the woman squeezes the umbrella back through the doors as high hilarity reigns.
Jean Coakley
Dear Diary:
One recent morning I was on the Gowanus, stuck as everybody else at that hour in the heavy rush-hour traffic, heading to Manhattan.
Just ahead, a huge truck was slowly moving along in the sea of cars.
Prominently displayed on its back, two words attracted my attention: MUNICIPAL WAIST.
It seems that the economic crisis is affecting, among many other things, spelling!
Iggy Gambino
Dear Diary:
Announcement aboard a New Jersey Transit train stopped between Pennsylvania Station, Manhattan and Newark:
''Attention, passengers: We are being delayed by a delay ahead of us. As soon as the delay is removed, we will proceed.''
Michael Gershowitz
Dear Diary:
I was leaving a multiplex on 42nd Street recently when a young man came running against the flow of those leaving the theater.
A woman seated on a sofa along the edge of the passageway called to him, ''Did you lose something?''
''Yes,'' he replied, ''my wallet!''
She asked, ''Is this it?''
''Yes, thank you so much.'' He thanked her again and left, much relieved, with his wallet.
I happened to be behind that kind lady on the escalator going down. I said, ''That was nice of you.''
She replied, ''Well, I know the hassle of going to the front desk for lost-and-found -- and besides, I figured I'd be able to spot him real easy.''
John Haggerty
Dear Diary:
My partner, Betty Walker, and I wanted to return to her childhood roots in the South Bronx to get married, so we drove from Manhattan to the Bronx County Courthouse to fill out a marriage license application.
We were the only two middle-aged same-sex women in a long line of multiracial and ethnic young people. A few smiled, but said nothing. Finally, we were called to the window, and my partner asked, ''Is this the first gay couple you've ever processed here?''
''Oh, no,'' the clerk replied. ''You're the third couple this morning.''
We turned around and held up our certificate to a long round of applause. Yes, we were back in the Bronx.
Marilyn Mehr
Dear Diary:
As an old-time baseball fan, I was amused to see, leaving Central Park, a mature, gray-haired gentleman, somewhat sweaty, carrying his baseball glove and wearing a T-shirt on which were clearly displayed a baseball, crossed bats, the name of his team and its slogan: ''The New York Arthritics -- 'Ben-Gay is not a steroid.' ''
Who needs the Brooklyn Dodgers?
Milton Kamen
A NEW YORK WOMAN'S JOURNEY
The trees get highlights and a henna rinse
Preparing to host Midtown ladies
On that precarious road
Past youth's endless preening
Into life's first frost.
Ellen Fuchs
Dear Diary:
Walking past Madison Square Garden, I saw a large family huddling for a picture. I tapped the mother on the shoulder and asked if she'd like me to take the photo, so she could be in the shot with her family.
When I handed back the camera, she asked, ''Are you from New York?''
I said yes, and she exclaimed, ''But you're much too nice!''
How little she knew. Who but a New Yorker would be so quick to grab an opportunity for positive spin?
When I told my mother about the incident, she told me, ''You should have run off with the camera.''
Leah Anthony Libresco
Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; on request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and The Times may republish them in all media.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); COHABITATION (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); MARRIAGE (63%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



424 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the trade deficit for August and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and retail sales for September, import prices for September, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for October and business inventories for August (Friday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting results include Alcoa (Tuesday); PepsiCo (Wednesday); JPMorgan Chase, Safeway and Google (Thursday); and Mattel (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will announce the proposed ''Volcker Rule'' that would limit banks' trading activities and regulate their relationships with hedge funds and private equity firms (Tuesday). The Senate is expected to vote on legislation that would direct the Obama administration to take action against China regarding the value of its currency (Tuesday). The Federal Reserve will release the minutes of its September meeting on interest rates (Tuesday). A House energy and commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about consumer attitudes on privacy (Thursday). A House energy and commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about electric transmission issues (Thursday). A House financial services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the housing finance system in a global context (Thursday).
IN EUROPE The Parliament of Slovakia is expected to vote on expanding the powers of the European bailout fund (Tuesday). The Group of 20 finance ministers will meet in Paris (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INVENTORIES (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); INTEREST RATES (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%); ALCOA INC (58%); PEPSICO INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



425 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Standing Out in a Hyperachieving Crowd

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Super People'' (Sunday Review, Oct. 2):
James Atlas conflates two related but distinct issues. The first is the trend toward contrived hyperachievement by the stressed-out children of successful parents with no sense of perspective. This affects the tiny segment of Americans lucky enough not to have more pressing concerns, like finding a job or paying for health insurance.
Mr. Atlas also identifies a real problem: the social feedback loop that concentrates both wealth and opportunity in the upper classes, including both the ''super people'' and the lesser mortals preoccupied with them. 
Our fixation on the privileged has blinded us to this country's very real class system, whose victims are not wealthy children forced to settle for state schools.
MIKE LEONARD Chicago, Oct. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
James Atlas writes that ''competition for places in the upper tier of higher education is a lot tougher than it was in the 1960s and '70s, when having good grades and SAT scores in the high 1200s was generally sufficient to get you into a respectable college.''
I am curious how Mr. Atlas would define a ''respectable'' college. His essay perpetuates the notion that ''super people'' can reach their potential only in the ''best colleges'' -- and that the economic and intellectual future of the United States depends on individuals with Ivy League diplomas.
It's unfortunate that more kids can't be rewarded for their hard work and accomplishments with an Ivy League education. But isn't the growing surplus of super people -- the ones who don't get into the Ivies -- a good thing for the next tier of universities, and our intellectual capital as a whole?
Each school down the ladder of ''respectability'' can now boast freshman classes with higher SATs, better grades and all the other trappings of superhood. How is that not a good thing?
ANDREW SILOW-CARROLL Teaneck, N.J., Oct. 3, 2011
To the Editor:
Though he doesn't identify it, the brochure that figures centrally in James Atlas's article is the one announcing each year's class of 32 new American Rhodes Scholars. They are, assuredly, extraordinary people.
Mr. Atlas is rightly concerned about the increasing advantages of affluence. But for the Rhodes Scholarships at least, we try mightily not to let parents' wealth affect our judgments about who wins.
While a few Rhodes Scholars each year may have, in fact, ''helped build a school or hospital in some foreign land,'' our selectors are keenly aware of how family affluence can burnish resumes.
Most students cannot afford summer experiences in exotic locations, and often the most compelling demonstrations of leadership and concern for others are close to home and anything but glamorous. We are not necessarily impressed when someone volunteers in a developing country known for its beaches, nor when someone ''founds'' a charity with gifts from a rich father's friends.
ELLIOT F. GERSON American Secretary Rhodes Trust Washington, Oct. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
Just this summer, a number of my classmates here at Duke University constructed wells in rural Latin America, taught English in China and battled civil rights issues in South Africa. These acts are admirable, and I am repeatedly amazed by how fortunate we are to have so many incredible opportunities both inside and outside of our communities.
Oftentimes, in fact, there are so many options to choose from it can muddle the sight of what we 20-somethings value as scholars, as friends and as individuals. So from one person to another, let's not simply get swept up in the gust of competition preparing for what's next, but also take time to, as James Atlas says, ''loaf'' and appreciate what is now.
ALICE YEN Durham, N.C., Oct. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
''Super People'' hit home. As parents of twin 8-year-olds, my husband and I have felt anxious about their futures in a world where there is shrinking middle ground between poverty and upper-middle-class professionals. We fear that if they don't succeed on this high wire, there will be nothing to catch them once we're gone.
So we are keeping our children active with piano, cello and drums instruction, tennis tournaments, after-school Spanish, church basketball, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, running club, art and dance. And although they are excellent students, we fear that their public education might leave them less competitive nationally, so we plan to add weekly tutoring to the mix.
When do they have time to be kids? Not very often these days.
MELINDA YOUNG Greenville, S.C., Oct. 3, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN CRANE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TRENDS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); ACADEMIC TESTING (68%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



426 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Cabinet Backs Panel's Outline for Social Change

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Ethan Bronner contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- The Israeli government on Sunday approved recommendations for new housing, education and tax measures to address the demands of the protests that swept the country during the summer. 
The cabinet voted 21 to 8 to approve the outline of a report by a committee for socioeconomic change set up by the government and led by Manuel Trajtenberg, a respected professor of economics.
The report was welcomed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu when it was presented late last month. But when he tried to bring it to a vote last week, some of his coalition partners decided to flex their political muscle and raised objections, making it clear that Mr. Netanyahu had not lined up a majority beforehand.
One of the parties that objected last week, Yisrael Beiteinu, switched to support the committee's plan this week after receiving promises that some of its own socioeconomic demands would be met; the change gave Mr. Netanyahu a comfortable majority in the vote on Sunday.
Another coalition partner, the ultra-Orthodox Shas party, which draws much of its support from low-income families, voted against the plan. So did the defense minister, Ehud Barak, and the minister of home-front defense, Matan Vilnai, who oppose the cuts to the defense budget that the committee has recommended to finance the plan.
The social movement began in mid-July when a group of young Israelis pitched tents in the center of Tel Aviv to protest inflated housing prices. The committee recommended building almost 200,000 apartments over the next five years, making more apartments available as rentals and increasing housing subsidies for the needy.
The panel also recommended raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations, building more day care centers and providing free pre-kindergarten for children 3 to 5 years old.
Even so, leaders of the social protest movement criticized the report, saying it merely moved money around within the existing budget and did not call for more fundamental changes.
The committee's outline must now be examined in more detail by the government and then be put to a vote in Parliament, a process that is expected to take several months.
Separately, the representatives of the international quartet of Middle East peacemakers met in Brussels on Sunday to follow up on their call for Israel and the Palestinians to resume peace talks in an effort to deflect the impact of a contentious Palestinian bid for recognition of statehood and membership in the United Nations.
The talks have been stalled for more than a year, with the Palestinians demanding a halt to all settlement construction before resuming negotiations and the Israelis insisting on talks with no preconditions. The quartet -- the United States, the United Nations, the European Union and Russia -- has called for talks without preconditions and has asked the sides ''to refrain from provocative actions.''
Though there was no immediate sign of an end to the impasse, the European Union's foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, said in a statement after Sunday's meeting that the quartet would be ''contacting the parties to invite them to meet in the coming days.''
Former Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, the quartet's envoy, said: ''We look forward to meeting with the parties shortly. This provides us with the opportunity to explore grounds for revived negotiations to take place.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (64%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%); EHUD BARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (67%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (67%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



427 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ISRAELI CABINET BACKS
OUTLINE FOR SOCIAL CHANGE
The Israeli government approved recommendations for new housing, education and tax measures to address the demands of the protests that swept the country during the summer. The cabinet voted 21 to 8 to approve the outline of a report by a committee for socioeconomic change set up by the government and led by Manuel Trajtenberg, a respected professor of economics. Page A6
SOMALIS PROTEST ISLAMISTS 
Thousands of residents in Mogadishu packed into a stadium to denounce the Shabab Islamist group for the suicide bombing last week that killed scores of people, many of them students. It was one of the largest rallies in years in Mogadishu, Somalia's capital. Many participants cried as politicians and others took turns heaping scorn on the Shabab, the militant group that claimed responsibility for the truck bombing. Page A4
FORMER LEADER RE-EMERGES
Jiang Zemin, the former Chinese president who was said to have fallen gravely ill in July, appeared at a ceremony in Beijing, fanning speculation about his health and the likelihood that he might play a role in power struggles accompanying the long-planned shift in the top leadership next year. A visibly frail Mr. Jiang was seen on state television standing with other Chinese leaders to honor the 100th anniversary of the revolution that ended the Qing Dynasty. Page A9
STANDOFF IN YEMEN
The pledge issued by President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step aside appeared, a day later, to be just another feint. While he had seemed to be moving toward accepting a plan to cede power to a transitional government, two high-ranking Yemeni officials said that the country's foreign minister had traveled to the United Arab Emirates to offer the council a new plan that calls for Mr. Saleh to remain in office until elections next year. Page A10
National
FOR PERRY, TEXAS ROOTS
INCLUDE RACIAL BACKDROP
Gov. Rick Perry, whose advocacy of states' rights sounds to some like a yearning for the Old South, has now been forced to show that he has overcome his early surroundings. In 1968, Mr. Perry left home for Texas A&M, a deeply conservative university whose yearbooks early in the century included Ku Klux Klan-robed students. Page A14
FREE TRIPS RAISE ISSUES
Since 2008, the Pearson Foundation, the nonprofit arm of one of the nation's largest educational publishers, has financed free international trips for education commissioners whose states do business with the company. When the commissioners are asked about these trips -- to Rio de Janeiro; London; Singapore; and Helsinki, Finland -- they emphasize the time they spend with educators from around the world to get ideas for improving American public schools. On Education. Page A12
New York
NAVIGATING WITHOUT SIGHT,
WITH A CANE AND A TEACHER
With the help of Karen Kramer, Yvonne Romero is adapting to life in New York after having lost her vision. Ms. Kramer, a specialist, provides Ms. Romero with techniques to pick up cues from the bustling city, tools that have helped with the commute she makes to her job in Manhattan from her home in Queens. Page A16
SPENDING MORE ON STUDENTS
At a conference this week, the Campaign for Educational Equity, an institute that seeks to eliminate the achievement gap among disadvantaged students, will make the case that the state should also pay for an array of support services outside the classroom that would cost an additional $4,750 annually for every poor student, or millions more every year. Page A17
Business
WIRELESS COMPANIES FRET
AS MORE USERS TEXT FOR FREE
There are now a growing number of ways to bypass text-message charges using an Internet connection -- much as Skype allows people to make calls without relying on a traditional telephone line. If these services catch on, analysts say, they could take a big bite out of the profits that text messages generate for wireless carriers. Page B1
FOX NEWS TURNS 15
When it made its debut, few thought that Fox News could unseat CNN, then the country's dominant cable news channel, but it did. Now, Fox is the envy of the media industry for its popularity, and perhaps too for its consistency -- something that Sean Hannity embodies, as the only host on the channel to have the same time slot, 9 p.m., for all 15 years. A self-described Reagan conservative, Mr. Hannity rarely if ever wavers from his views and campaigns relentlessly against President Obama. Page B1
CONDe NAST'S NEW VENTURE
Conde Nast, intensely focused of late on lessening its reliance on advertising (or at least finding ways to give current advertisers more value), plans to announce the creation of a full-fledged entertainment division. Developing television and online programming based on Conde Nast personalities, articles and general brands is the first priority, although movies are also a focus. Page B5
Arts
MICHAEL JACKSON HONORED
AT TRIBUTE CONCERT IN WALES
At a tribute concert last week, Michael Jackson's music thumped and cracked as usual, his fans screamed on cue, and conflict and controversy simmered beneath the surface as they have since Mr. Jackson found fame as a child. Outside Millennium Stadium in Wales, where a fleet of S.U.V.'s deposited stars like Christina Aguilera, Jamie Foxx amd Gladys Knight, Mr. Jackson as a commodity was omnipresent. Page C1
Sports
N.B.A. NEGOTIATORS MAKE
FINAL EFFORT TO SAVE GAMES
Top officials for the N.B.A. and the players union met in a final, and unexpected, attempt to resolve the lockout before regular-season games are lost. The meeting involved the primary negotiators for each side: Commissioner David Stern and the deputy commissioner Adam Silver for the league, with the union represented by its president, Derek Fisher and executive director, Billy Hunter. Page D6
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RANKINGS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); POLITICS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); PUBLISHING (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (90%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) SOMALIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); YEMEN (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



428 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Everyone Seems Mad at Teammates

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Every poll shows it: Americans are hopping mad at Washington.
Well, Washington's mad, too.
And not just mad in the familiar, tribal, partisan sense, the way historic rivals like the Yankees and the Red Sox seethe at each other when they compete in autumn for the American League pennant. Though there is plenty of that, as tantrums on the Senate floor last week made clear.
Among Democratic and Republicans alike, there is also the sort of locker-room backbiting that occurs when Yankee and Red Sox seasons end in ignominy (which just happened). 
Congressional Democrats are mad at Democrats in the White House over prerogatives, consultation and divergent interests.
Senior Republicans on Capitol Hill are mad at junior Republicans over the balance between ideological zeal and political pragmatism.
Workhorses in the House are mad at divas in the Senate over everything, because they always are.
Former advisers to President Obama are mad at current advisers over economic and political strategy.
The White House staff is mad at the White House press corps over how its battles with Republican adversaries are covered.
As in baseball, the reasons become clear once you check the (poll) standings. With 2012 just around the corner, everyone here is losing.
Gamesmanship
The anger that erupted as the Senate considered a crackdown on China's trade policy encapsulated Washington's maddening dysfunction.
Democratic leaders were advancing what is called a ''messaging bill'' (designed for the majority to score political points). Republicans were trying to force Democrats into ''bad votes'' on amendments (point-scoring for the minority). Making law was secondary, since House leaders had vowed to block the bill (to the relief of the administration).
But Democrats, mad over a looming ''bad vote'' on the Obama jobs package they were rewriting, used a rare maneuver to block it. The Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, really mad now, accused Democrats of turning the chamber into the House - which senators disdain as their inferior in statesmanship.
Actually, the entire American political system is moving toward the House's predilection for reflexive, angry, ideologically fueled partisanship. The Senate's unique madness is its inability to act at all.
Of course, ideology runs so red-hot that sometimes the House can't act, either.
Four dozen Tea Party-inspired House Republicans last month angered and embarrassed their leaders by joining Democrats to defeat a spending bill including money for disaster relief. Senior Republicans saw those defectors as selfish showboats polishing their conservative reputations at the party's expense.
So Senate Republicans seized an opening for compromise with Senate Democrats, effectively imposing it on the House. That averted a fresh threat of government shutdown.
Summertime brinksmanship by House Republicans over the debt ceiling, which simultaneously damaged the nation's credit rating and the party's poll ratings, had already made Senate Republicans mad enough.
In-House Anger
Intrasquad anger among Democrats, who stand to lose ground in 2012 Senate elections, can be worse.
The top Senate Democrat, Harry Reid of Nevada, considers the White House chief of staff, William M. Daley, to be ham-handed. Democratic leaders complain that Team Obama's zeal for secrets creates more problems than it solves.
For instance, Senate Democrats believe inadequate consultation led the White House to botch the unveiling of ''pay-fors'' for Mr. Obama's jobs package. Instead of reducing oil industry tax breaks and deductions for affluent taxpayers, which produced Democratic defections, they wanted the White House to adopt the ''millionaire's surtax'' that the Senate is now substituting.
Mr. Obama's advisers think Mr. Reid has overreacted to perceived slights. They view Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a persistent critic of administration tax strategy whom Mr. Reid promoted within the leadership, as a self-promoting know-it-all.
Within Mr. Obama's circle, recriminations include complaints that Mr. Daley and the White House political strategist David Plouffe invested too much faith for too long in their ability to strike a debt-ceiling ''grand bargain'' with the House speaker, John A. Boehner. Some Obama advisers look back at the springtime standoff over government spending as a missed opportunity to confront Republicans, risking a government shutdown then that might have averted debt-ceiling paralysis later.
Mr. Daley has reason to be mad. He thought he was returning to Washington after a decade's absence to soothe business leaders and strike confidence-building deals with Republicans.
So does Mr. Obama, who does not hide his frustration over the turn toward full-throated combat he now considers unavoidable. Nor do his aides hide theirs, over news accounts that they believe don't adequately fault Republicans.
That's what 9.1 percent unemployment, 39 percent presidential approval (in Gallup's weekend tracking) and 11 percent approval of Congress (in a CBS News poll last week) will do.
Washington in the political and economic dumps? It's a mad, mad, mad, mad world.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, has had recent disagreements with a fellow Democrat, William M. Daley, the White House chief of staff, below, over the handling of several legislative issues. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
 YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ATHLETES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); DEBT CEILING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (56%); MITCH MCCONNELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



429 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: A Protest's Ink-Stained Fingers

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
At the Occupy Wall Street demonstration in Zuccotti Park, you'll find all of the essentials of a state-of-the-art protest: drum circles, cheeky and plaintive handwritten signs, and, next to a thrumming generator, a hub of social media activity, including live streaming of the proceedings.
But amid the accouterments of modern political action, you will also find, of all things, a broadsheet newspaper, The Occupied Wall Street Journal. It is not some tatty, hand-drawn piece of protest samizdat, but a professionally produced, four-color, four-page document of the demonstration, which began on Sept. 17.
''Get your newspaper, get your free Occupied Wall Street Journal!'' shouted one barker. Getting something in the hands of your average New Yorker is a pretty tough sell, but The Occupied Wall Street Journal was eagerly received, even by the people who just came to gawk, in part because it answered the question of what all the hubbub was about. 
Forgive an old newspaper hack a moment of sentimentality, but it is somehow reassuring that a newspaper still has traction in an environment preoccupied by social media. It makes sense when you think about it: newspapers convey a sense of place, of actually being there, that digital media can't. When is the last time somebody handed you a Web site?
''The act of one person giving another person a newspaper is important,'' said Arun Gupta, one of dozens of people who helped put together The Occupied Wall Street Journal. ''We wanted to come up with something that was beautifully designed and well-written that gives a tangible form to what is under way.'' A call for the financing of the pop-up, instant newspaper went out on Kickstarter.com at the end of last month. An ad hoc group set out to raise $12,000 and has now surpassed $75,000. The initial print run of 50,000 was augmented with an extra 20,000 copies as the money rolled in, with promotional assists from Michael Moore, Andy Bichlbaum of the performance artists the Yes Men, and others. Mr. Gupta edited the newspaper, along with Michael Levitin, a former Associated Press journalist, and Jed Brandt, a writer and activist, was the lead designer. Dozens of other people pitched in. A second issue hit the streets on Saturday, along with a Spanish edition of the first issue.
Mr. Gupta is a longtime newspaperman, having published The Indypendent, a free, left-leaning newspaper that circulates to 20,000 readers in print and online, primarily in New York, 16 times a year.
The Occupied Wall Street Journal is not the ''official'' newspaper of the protest because nothing is official in the world of Occupy Wall Street. Mr. Gupta said that consensus was the core principle governing the protest, but something more entrepreneurial was required to get an actual newspaper out.
Although the sentiment and some of the informational anarchy of the event is reflected in the newspaper, it is produced by experienced, if far from objective, journalists. (You can get a PDF of the newspaper at bit.ly/qi05ls.) ''We didn't think there would be much in the way of coverage of the event, so we thought it was important that there be a media outlet that reflected what was under way,'' Mr. Gupta said. ''A newspaper is tactile, engages all of the senses, and leads to more immersive reading than what people might do online.''
While some of the recipients of the paper clearly saw it as little more than a souvenir, an artifact that demonstrates that they were present, many others opened up the paper and were reading it when I visited on Thursday.
Katie Trainer, who came from Lebanon, Pa., asked for a newspaper and suddenly found herself drafted to circulate some copies.
''This provides people information about a historic event,'' she said. ''It is a professional document, not just a sign.''
Christopher Guerra, working an informational table at the protest, is a fan of the newspaper, and newspapers in general.
''A Web site will come and go, but this could be here 100 years from now if the mold doesn't get to it,'' he said, holding a copy. ''People say that newspapers are dying, but there is something about its physical properties, the fact that when you hold it in your hands, you end up with ink on them, that serves as a reminder that this all is real.''
Handsome as it is, no one is going to mistake The Occupied Wall Street Journal for its namesake -- ''the name just seemed like a natural,'' Mr. Gupta said. (A spokeswoman at The Wall Street Journal declined to comment on the appropriation of the newspaper's name.)
In the lead piece, Mr. Gupta writes, ''For over two weeks, in the great cathedral of capitalism, the dispossessed have liberated territory from the financial overlords and their police army.'' Not the kind of sentence you will see Peggy Noonan writing anytime soon, though Mr. Gupta said an artist who had done a stipple drawing for the real Wall Street Journal, had also contributed an illustration for the back page.
But the newspaper is not just a broadsheet version of ''Anarchist Basics'' either. There is a well-designed timeline of recent protests dating to the Arab Spring and continuing through the demonstrations in Wisconsin and protests in Europe. The first issue also included a charming photo essay on protest signs and the people who carry them, along with a call to action from Chris Hedges, a former reporter for The New York Times.
The writing can be flowery and the rhetoric a bit crunchy, but a piece titled ''Occupations for Dummies'' offered a carefully constructed document about how the protest came together (the group AdBusters put out the word in July); the limits and power of a leaderless movement (''really hard, frustrating and slow''); and the lack of a central demand.
Print and protest are frequent fellow travelers. It's worth pointing out that at the beginning of the Arab Spring, the protesters in Tahrir Square in Cairo also produced a newspaper called Liberation Square.
Jeremi Suri, a professor of history and public policy at the University of Texas at Austin, said that newspapers would continue to play a durable role in social movements.
''In a newspaper is an element of analysis that you don't get in a sign or a pamphlet,'' he said. ''In both the '20s and '30s, and during the protests of the '60s, underground newspapers played an important role in bringing people together to create something in common.''
The rest of us in the media have had trouble catching up with Occupy Wall Street, in part because it refuses to live in a pigeon hole. Like all nascent social movements involving myriad interest groups, there are inchoate, atavistic impulses at work. So, are they the anti-Tea Party, the old guard lefties in new clothing, or just disenfranchised Americans engaging in some new form of pushback?
Rather than a neat list of demands, the group tends to ask questions. Then again, who among us has not wondered if the capitalistic fundamentals of choices and consequences were suspended in order to bail out Wall Street banking firms?
The country is just coming to grips with an episode in which some financial institutions, through fecklessness and greed, all but tipped over the American economy, and the arrival of the occupiers in the financial district presents a complicated subject.
Media coverage has tended to focus on civil disobedience because that is where the action is. Much was made of the thrust and parry between the protesters and police, most recently on Wednesday night, in which an attempt by some protesters to march down Wall Street was met with pepper spray and 23 arrests.
That melee was at distant remove by Thursday in Zuccotti Park. There were people taking naps, and occasional chants sprung up, while some of the police officers and protesters talked along the periphery. One of the cops took a proffered copy of The Occupied Wall Street Journal.
''What's the harm?'' he said. He opened the broadsheet to its full dimensions, and added: ''I'll give them one thing. It's a pretty good-looking paper.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Even in an environment preoccupied with digital media, The Occupied Wall Street Journal, left, a four-page, full-color broadsheet newspaper, has gained surprising traction as a tool of protest at the Occupy Wall Street rallies in Manhattan. The initial print run was 50,000 copies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); WRITERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (72%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



430 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Free Texts Pose Threat To Carriers

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
At a time when e-mail and many other forms of electronic communication are essentially free, wireless carriers are still charging as much as 20 cents to send a text message to a phone, and another 20 cents to receive it.
Paying so much to transmit a handful of words is starting to look as antiquated as buying stamps.
There are now a growing number of ways to bypass text-message charges using an Internet connection -- much as Skype allows people to make calls without relying on a traditional telephone line. If these services catch on in a big way, analysts say, they could take a big bite out of the profits that text messages generate for wireless carriers.
On Wednesday, Apple plans to introduce a new service called iMessage, which could quickly become the biggest fish in this pond. The service lets iPhone owners send messages with text, photos and video to other iPhone owners over a Wi-Fi or cellular data connection. The service, part of an update to Apple's iOS mobile operating system, will automatically handle messages sent between iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch users who have upgraded to the latest software. 
''There's a huge amount at stake here,'' said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, who covers the telecommunications industry. ''They are undermining the core business model for an industry that makes most of its money from services that are high priced and low bandwidth, like texting.''
The basic idea is the same with both old- and new-style messages: short bursts that pop up almost instantly on the recipient's phone. But the path that they take is different. A text message is sent over cellular networks. Services like iMessage transmit messages over the carriers' data networks and the Internet, much like e-mail. Cellphone customers pay for each text message or sign up for a texting plan, while the newer messages will fall under a customer's wireless data plan.
More than two trillion text messages are sent each year in the United States, generating more than $20 billion in revenue for the wireless industry. Verizon Wireless alone generates as much as $7 billion a year in revenue from texting, or about 12 percent of the total, Mr. Moffett said, and texting brings in about a third of the operating income.
This highly profitable product was something of a happy accident for cellphone carriers. Srinivasan Keshav, a professor at the University of Waterloo who studies mobile computing, said text messages were almost an afterthought when cellphone standards were being developed in the late 1980s.
Professor Keshav said wireless operators realized there was enough spare capacity in a special control channel on voice networks to also shuttle short messages around. ''They could piggyback on the phone railway,'' he said, which let the carriers deliver messages cheaply.
Professor Keshav estimates it costs the carriers about a third of a penny to send text messages. Considering that the major carriers charge 10 to 20 cents to send and receive them, ''it's something like a 4,090 percent markup,'' he said.
At 20 cents and 160 characters per message, wireless customers are paying roughly $1,500 to send a megabyte of text traffic over the cell network. By comparison, the cost to send that same amount of data using a $25-a-month, two-gigabyte data plan works out to 1.25 cents.
Over time, analysts say, the new messaging services could cut into the amount of money that carriers can make from each of their customers. They point to examples where the slide has already begun, as in the Netherlands, where the popularity of social networks and messaging applications have shrunk texting traffic and eroded profits.
Analysts say Apple is trying to duplicate the success of services like BlackBerry Messenger, or BBM, a free application for BlackBerry smartphone owners that lets them send messages back and forth as in an instant-messaging conversation. It has engendered loyalty among BlackBerry users and has kept some from switching to an Apple or Android device.
''BBM is the stickiest feature of the BlackBerry experience, even more than e-mail,'' said Roger Entner, an analyst at Recon Analytics who follows the wireless industry. ''Once you have that, you are considerably less likely to switch away from the consumer experience. IMessage makes the whole iOS universe more valuable.''
Because iMessage will work only between iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads, at least at first, it is not clear whether it will inspire customers to ditch their text-messaging plans. And Apple devices account only for 5 percent of the texting traffic sent each year, said Chetan Sharma, an independent mobile analyst.
''But if Apple makes iMessage open and available on other platforms, you could see a much bigger impact,'' he said.
History has shown that Apple has a way of shaking up the mobile industry by carving out a path to success that causes other hardware makers to follow in its footsteps. ''Anything that Apple does, by definition, does not fly under the radar,'' Mr. Entner said.
Both Samsung and Google are reportedly working on services that would allow owners of their phones to swap free messages. Analysts anticipate that Microsoft, which is acquiring Skype and GroupMe, a popular mobile messaging application, will soon incorporate both services into its new line of Windows smartphones. And other downloadable apps like TextPlus, WhatsApp and Kik are gathering a following among people looking for cheap ways to chat with friends.
One such service, called Pinger, says it has 19 million members in the Unites States alone. The company says it has handled more than 15 billion text messages since it began offering its service in 2009.
''It always comes down to the economics,'' said Greg Woock, the chief executive of Pinger. ''Free is a compelling price point.''
Analysts say the wireless carriers are trying to ready themselves for the coming shift. AT&T recently started requiring new subscribers to choose between two texting plans: pay $20 a month to send unlimited text messages or pay 20 cents for each message sent and received. The company will no longer offer a plan that charged users $10 a month for 1,000 text messages. This is apparently aimed at pushing customers toward a pricier plan even if they are not heavy texters, shoring up AT&T's texting revenue for now. The company declined to discuss messaging services.
Brenda Raney, a spokeswoman for Verizon Wireless, said the company views social messaging as being complementary to other features on the phone. Customers will use a combination of text messages, iMessage, e-mail and the like, she said.
''From a business perspective, customers still need a data plan to connect to a device,'' Ms. Raney said. ''They are only making choices on how they are using the data.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Martocci, left, and Jared Hecht founded GroupMe, a popular mobile messaging app that is being acquired by Microsoft. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Apple is about to unveil iMessage, which lets iPhone owners send messages with text, photos and video to other iPhones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY APPLE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (92%); TEXT MESSAGING (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BANDWIDTH (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TABLET COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



431 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: 'Tavis Smiley' on Poverty Tour

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Tavis Smiley has described it as ''a call to conscience.''
An 11-state tour by Mr. Smiley and Cornel West, the Princeton professor, to raise awareness about poverty in America will be translated onto television starting on Monday. All five episodes this week of the PBS program ''Tavis Smiley'' will focus on the subject, which is one that antipoverty advocates say is all too often slighted by television news programs. 
Mr. Smiley said that many of the poor Americans he met on the tour feel the same way.
''They sense that they're being rendered invisible,'' he said in a telephone interview last week. ''They sense that the focus has been on Wall Street, not Main Street, much less on the side street.''
Mr. Smiley says he agrees, and hopes the PBS series will be a partial antidote.
Each night his show will start with taped reports about people in poverty, products of the tour. Then it will segue to interviews with antipoverty advocates like Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary; Jeffrey D. Sachs, the economist; and Vicki B. Escarra, the president and chief executive of the hunger-relief group Feeding America.
Mr. Smiley says he hopes the reports will illustrate the problems and the interviews will propose solutions.
''When you can humanize the statistics, there's a better chance that people will feel compelled to wrestle with or grapple with the issue,'' Mr. Smiley said, describing himself as an advocacy journalist. He held a round-table discussion about poverty on his radio show last Friday
Interest in the weeklong series might be lifted by the recent Census Bureau finding that nearly one in six Americans - 46.2 million - live in poverty, the highest number ever reported by the bureau. The finding was widely reported in the news media last month.
Mr. Smiley's poverty tour with Dr. West took place in August and covered 11 states by bus. Many nights, Mr. Smiley said, he and Dr. West stayed with poor families. He recounted meeting a group of homeless people who stayed near the United States Capitol and a man and woman who were filing for divorce for economic rather than emotional reasons.
Summarizing his findings, he said, ''The new poor are the former middle class.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tavis Smiley will devote a week of his program on PBS to poverty in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL GIBSON III/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); JOURNALISM (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); CENSUS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WRITERS (64%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



432 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENDANGERED DRAGON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2324 words

HEADLINE: As Its Economy Sprints Ahead, China's People Are Left Behind

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Xu Yan contributed research.

 BODY:
JILIN CITY, China -- Wang Jianping and his wife, Shue, are a relatively affluent Chinese couple, with an annual household income of $16,000 -- more than double the national average for urban families.
They own a modest, three-bedroom apartment here in this northeastern industrial city. They paid for their son to study electrical engineering at prestigious Tsinghua University, in Beijing. And even by frugal Asian standards, they are prodigious savers, with $50,000 in a state-run bank.
But like many other Chinese families, the Wangs feel pressed. They do not own a car, and they rarely go shopping or out to eat. That is because the value of their nest egg is shrinking, through no fault of their own.
Under an economic system that favors state-run banks and companies over wage earners, the government keeps the interest rate on savings accounts so artificially low that it cannot keep pace with China's rising inflation. At the same time, other factors in which the government plays a role -- a weak social safety net, depressed wages and soaring home prices -- create a hoarding impulse that compels many people to keep saving anyway, against an uncertain future. 
Indeed, economists say this nation's decade of remarkable economic growth, led by exports and government investment in big projects like China's high-speed rail network, has to a great extent been underwritten by the household savings -- not the spending -- of the country's 1.3 billion people.
This system, which some experts refer to as state capitalism, depends on the transfer of wealth from Chinese households to state-run banks, government-backed corporations and the affluent few who are well enough connected to benefit from the arrangement.
Meanwhile, striving middle-class families like the Wangs are unable to enjoy the full fruits of China's economic miracle.
''This is the foundation of the whole system,'' said Carl E. Walter, a former J. P. Morgan executive who is co-author of ''Red Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundation of China's Extraordinary Rise.''
''The banks make loans to who the Communist Party tells them to,'' Mr. Walter said. ''So they punish the household savers in favor of the state-owned companies.''
It is not just China's problem. Economists say that for China to continue serving as one of the world's few engines of economic growth, it will need to cultivate a consumer class that buys more of the world's products and services, and shares more fully in the nation's wealth.
But rather than rising, China's consumer spending has actually plummeted in the last decade as a portion of the overall economy, to about 35 percent of gross domestic product, from about 45 percent. That figure is by far the lowest percentage for any big economy anywhere in the world. (Even in the sleepwalking American economy, the level is about 70 percent of G.D.P.)
Unless China starts giving its own people more spending power, some experts warn, the nation could gradually slip into the slow-growth malaise that now afflicts the United States, Europe and Japan. Already this year, China's economic growth rate has begun to cool off.
''This growth model is past its sell-by date,'' says Michael Pettis, a professor of finance at Peking University and senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''If China is going to continue to grow, this system will have to change. They're going to have to stop penalizing households.''
The Communist Party, in its latest five-year plan, has promised to bolster personal consumption. But doing so would risk undermining a pillar of the country's current financial system: the household savings that support the government-run banks.
Here in Jilin City, where chemical manufacturing is the dominant industry, the state banks are flush with money from savings accounts. The banks use that money to make low-interest loans to corporate beneficiaries -- including real estate developers, helping fuel a speculative property bubble that has raised housing prices beyond the reach of many consumers. It is a dynamic that has played out in dozens of cities throughout China.
Meanwhile, China's central bank in Beijing also depends on the nation's vast pool of consumer savings to help finance its big investments in the foreign exchange markets, as a way to keep the currency artificially weak. The weak currency helps sustain China's mighty export economy by lowering the global price of Chinese goods. But it also makes imports unaffordable for many Chinese people.
News reports of the nouveaux riches in Beijing and Shanghai snapping up Apple iPhones, Gucci bags and Rolex watches may conjure Western business dreams of China's becoming the world's biggest consumer market. But consumer choice here in Jilin and many other heartland cities is confined largely to the limited offerings of dingy state-run department stores and mom-and-pop shops. Any sales of global ''brands'' come mainly in the form of the counterfeits and knockoffs often sold at outdoor markets.
On a recent weekday at the Henan Street flea market, crowds sifted through stacks of clothes that included $3 T-shirts with images of Minnie Mouse and $5 imitation Nike sports jerseys. Just a few yards away, an authentic Nike store selling the real thing for $35 had nary a shopper. Because consumers have so little spending power, many global-brand companies do not even bother to open stores in cities like Jilin.
With the faltering economies of the United States, Europe and Japan limiting China's ability to continue relying on growth through exports, the Chinese government knows the importance of giving its own consumers more buying power. Already, the central government has pushed to raise rural incomes and has even offered subsidies to buy cars and household appliances.
The question is whether the government can change its entrenched economic system enough to truly make a difference. ''The central government is committed to increasing the share of consumption in G.D.P.,'' says Li Daokui, a professor of economics at Tsinghua University and a longtime government adviser. ''The issue is what is going to be the means.''
THE SAVERS
Frugality Born
Of Necessity
If China is to make consumer spending a much larger share of the economy, it will need to encourage big changes in the habits of people like Mr. Wang, 52, a highway design specialist, and Ms. Wang, also 52, who retired as an accountant seven years ago because of health problems.
''We're quite traditional,'' says Ms. Wang, who draws a pension. ''We don't like to spend tomorrow's money today.''
But tomorrow's money may not be worth as much as today's -- not as long as their savings account earns only a 3 percent interest rate while inflation lopes along at 6 percent or more.
Yet the Wangs see no good alternatives to stashing nearly two-thirds of their monthly income in the bank. They are afraid to invest in China's notoriously volatile stock market. And Chinese law sharply limits their ability to invest overseas or otherwise send money outside the country.
Nor do the Wangs feel flush or daring enough to join the real estate speculation that some Chinese now see as one of the few ways to get a return on their money -- risky as that might prove if the bubble bursts.
Mainly, like many in China, the Wangs save because they worry about soaring food prices and the high cost of health care, which the People's Republic no longer fully provides. They also worry about whether they can afford to buy a home for their son, a cost that Chinese parents are expected to bear when their male children marry.
''If you have a daughter, it's not so expensive,'' Wang Shue said. ''But with a son you have to save money.''
Housing prices have become crucial in pushing up savings rates. Here, too, analysts say government policies are shifting wealth away from households.
In the case of the Wangs, they are being forced to move to make way for a new real estate development authorized by municipal authorities -- the sort of project that local governments throughout China have come to regard as an easy source of riches.
Although the Wangs and other current residents have received some cash compensation for the apartments they are leaving, the Jilin City government has sold the land to a developer that plans to demolish the current dwellings and erect a new complex with more, and more expensive, apartments.
The Wangs are not sure they will be able to find a home comparable to their current apartment from the money they are being paid. But the developer and the local government are expected jointly to earn a profit of more than $50 million.
A POLICY'S HISTORY
Averting a Crisis,
But Forming a Habit
Why would China, which hopes eventually to surpass the United States as the world's biggest economy, deliberately suppress the consumer market that might help it reach that goal?
Some analysts trace the current policies to habits formed in the late 1990s. That's when the bloat of China's giant, uncompetitive state-run corporations nearly brought China's economic expansion to a standstill. Suddenly, with state-owned companies facing bankruptcy, the state banks were saddled with hundreds of billions of dollars in nonperforming loans; many banks faced insolvency.
To avert a crisis, Beijing allowed state-owned companies to lay off tens of millions of workers. In 1999 just one of those companies, the parent of PetroChina, a big oil conglomerate, announced the layoff of a million employees. And to shore up the banks, Beijing assumed tighter control over interest rates, which included sharply lowering the effective rates paid to depositors. A passbook account that might have earned 3 percent in 2002, after inflation, would today be effectively losing 3 to 5 percent, once inflation is factored in.
That is how Chinese banks can provide extremely cheap financing to state-owned companies while still recording huge profits. It has also helped the banks provide easy financing for big public works projects, which besides the high-speed train system have included the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the monumental Three Gorges Dam.
It was during this same period that the Communist government discarded the longstanding ''iron rice bowl'' promise of lifelong employment and state care. Beijing shifted more of the high costs of social services -- including housing, education and medical care -- onto households and the private sector.
Together, these measures added up to the managed-market system now known as state capitalism. They worked so well that they not only helped resuscitate China's failing banks and state companies, but also fueled the nation's economic boom for more than a decade. But the system also took an enormous economic toll on personal pocketbooks.
''We'd like to spend, but we really have nothing left over after paying the bills,'' said Yang Yang, 34, a school administrator who lives in Jilin City with her husband, a police officer, and their son, 10. ''Even though our son goes to a public school, we need to pay fees for after-school courses, which everyone is expected to take. Almost every family will do this. So there's a lot of pressure on us to do it, too.'' To save money, Ms. Yang, her husband and son recently moved in with her parents.
Nicholas R. Lardy, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, calculates that the government policies exacted a hidden tax on Chinese households that amounted to about $36 billion in 2008 alone -- or about 4 percent of China's gross domestic product. Over the last decade, Mr. Lardy says, that figure probably amounted to hundreds of billions of dollars -- money that banks essentially took from consumers' hands.
The distortions may have actually cost households far more, because his figures do not include hidden costs like artificially high prices for imports.
For many Chinese economists, the state capitalism that helped jump-start growth has become counterproductive.
''China is already beyond the point where the law of diminishing returns starts biting,'' said Xu Xiaonian, an economist who teaches at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai.
Mr. Xu argues that China risks repeating the mistakes Japan made in the 1980s and early 1990s, when it relied too long on a predominantly export economy, neglected domestic markets and allowed real estate prices to soar. Since Japan's bubble burst in the mid-1990s, its economy has never really recovered.
''If we don't change, we will follow those same footsteps,'' Mr. Xu said. ''We have already seen the early signs of what we might call the Japanese disease. China invests more and more, but those investments generate less and less growth.''
PREDICTIONS FOR CHANGE
A Radical Overhaul,
But Within Reach
Some economists predict major changes, noting that the Chinese government has the cash and the power to alter course as drastically as it did in the late '90s, this time in the people's favor.
''China has faced more daunting challenges in the past,'' said Wei Shangjin, a professor at the Columbia Business School. ''I don't doubt that they want to do it. The question is, Can they successfully engineer such a major restructuring of the economy?''
Certainly, multinationals like McDonald's, Nike and Procter & Gamble are still betting billions of dollars that China will grow into the world's biggest consumer market within a few decades.
But raising consumption will require a radical overhaul of the Chinese economy -- not just weaning state banks off household subsidies but forcing state-run firms to pay much higher borrowing rates. It would also mean letting the currency rise closer to whatever value it might naturally reach. It would mean, in other words, a significant dismantling of the state capitalism that has enabled China to come so far so fast. ''To get consumption to surge,'' said Mr. Pettis, the Peking University lecturer, ''you need to stop taking money from the household sector.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wang Shue and her husband live frugally and put much of their income into savings. (A1)
AT THE MARKET: A shopkeeper napping on a busy shopping street in Jilin. While Western companies look at China as a potentially huge market, consumers in Jilin and other heartland cities mostly settle for what state-run department stores and mom-and-pop shops offer.
A GREAT DIVIDE: Left, a billboard announcing Jilin Fortune Plaza, a real estate project in Jilin, China. Local governments have come to view such projects as a source of easy riches. Right, Yang Yang and her son, Guo Liming. To save money, Ms. Yang, her husband and son recently moved in with her parents. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) CHARTS: Purse Pinching: Despite China's rapid growth in recent years, personal income and spending has declined in relation to the overall economy, as household wealth has taken a back seat to state-run businesses. And to gird against future uncertainties, Chinese households have put a higher portion of their income into savings accounts -- even though the government keeps interest rates low to subsidize state-run banks and industries. The data are in sharp contrast to the United States, with its consumer-focused economy and meager savings rate. (Sources: CEIC
UBS estimates
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)
 MAP (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CITIES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INFLATION (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (53%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTHEAST CHINA (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); JILIN, CHINA (91%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



433 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Banks Brace For Fallout On Earnings

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The protesters who have gathered for weeks near Wall Street and the highly paid investors and analysts in the buildings that surround them don't agree on much.
But when it comes to the nation's biggest banks, they have a lot more in common than you would think. Both are deeply frustrated with financial institutions in general and have little faith in the message coming from bank executives.
Earnings season is about to upset one of those groups even more. Never popular to begin with, the nation's biggest banks are rapidly becoming a focus of public dissatisfaction with the economy, uniting opponents including consumers upset about new fees, protesters who blame the banks for the nation's economic woes, and lately, Wall Street types who have dumped their bank shares en masse. 
For banks, the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better. They are due to begin reporting earnings this week, and the numbers are likely to leave investors as frustrated as ever, making the banks even more desperate to impose new charges on consumers' accounts and rack up bigger trading profits. Over all, revenue is expected to fall 4 percent in the third quarter, slipping back to 2005 levels, according to data from Trepp. The industry's earnings are expected to be about what they were in late 2002.
The biggest banks are expected to be hit hard by a sharp slowdown in their Wall Street-related businesses because of the chaotic third quarter in the markets. But the growth prospects for traditional banking are not great either. Tough new federal regulations restricting overdraft charges and other penalties are already taking a big bite out of profits. And then there are the government-mandated cuts in once-lucrative debit-card swipe fees, which have prompted banks to try to recoup billions of dollars in lost revenue with increases like Bank of America's controversial new $5 monthly debit card fee.
Besides leaving consumers infuriated, the debit card fees have also drawn the wrath of the White House, with President Obama warning last week that customers should not be ''mistreated'' in pursuit of profit, while Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. characterized moves to hit consumers with new charges ''incredibly tone deaf.'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, took the unusual step of denouncing Bank of America on the Senate floor, urging customers to ''vote with your feet, get the heck out of that bank.''
Investors certainly have. Bank stocks are at lows not seen since the wake of the financial crisis, and shares of Bank of America, the nation's biggest bank, are down more than 50 percent since the start of the year, while Citigroup is down more than 40 percent.
David H. Ellison, a mutual fund manager for FBR who invests in financial companies, likens owning bank stocks these days to holding airline stocks in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001. ''Nobody wants to own the group,'' he said. ''Everybody thinks it is not the place to be.''
And in a kind of unusual convergence, protesters and bank analysts alike have had it with bank management.
For the protesters, financial institutions, among other things, symbolize growing economic inequality in the United States, with bank executives enjoying huge pay packages even as their companies benefit from government support. Investors distrust them because they have disappointed the Street in quarter after quarter, and seem unable to grow.
''There is a huge skepticism, that goes way beyond normal healthy doubt, about how reliable their numbers and guidance are,'' said Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer. ''People who were bullish are frustrated and beaten down.''
Michael Mayo, a longtime financial services analyst, has been traveling around the world over the last year, calling attention to what he calls his ''Japan lite'' thesis -- the view that the United States and its banks are in for a prolonged period of very slow growth, not unlike Japan's so-called lost decade in the 1990s.
A year ago, he said, about four in five clients brushed off his investment thesis. Today, he said, most agree.
Mr. Mayo argues there is so much pressure on loans, margins and revenue that even at these depressed levels, American bank stocks are too richly priced. And the political and financial uncertainty in Europe makes the sector even more risky. ''Underweight bank stocks and put more of your money elsewhere,'' he advises.
Mr. Mayo is not alone; the rest of Wall Street has been busy ratcheting down profit forecasts. At the end of June, analysts were projecting financial sector earnings in the third quarter would rise 15.6 percent, according to consensus data from Thomson Reuters. Today, they are looking for a mere 2.8 percent increase.
Yet the coming quarterly reports, which begin with JPMorgan Chase on Thursday, should offer a few bright spots.
Analysts expect that auto, credit card and corporate lending will have inched upward in the third quarter, and lower credit losses could mean the release of several billion dollars' worth of past reserves that will be counted toward current profits.
But these days, investors are looking past such glimmers of good news for the banks. They are increasingly focused on the consequences of prolonged unemployment of around 9 percent and an almost daily drumbeat of other grim economic data.
What is more, worries are rising that the debt troubles in Europe could infect the balance sheets of American financial institutions. Even though the banks insist their exposures are not a cause for alarm, investors have so little faith in the numbers banks have provided that their first reaction is to sell shares first, and ask questions later.
The credit default swap market provides one clue of how deep those fears run, as the cost of buying insurance against the default of billions of dollars' worth of bank debt has surged since mid-July. Rates on credit default swaps for Morgan Stanley now stand at 420 basis points, while Bank of America's rate was 379, and Goldman Sachs was at 351. That is equivalent to the cost of insuring junk bonds issued by companies whose credit rating is below investment grade. Among the major banks, only JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo fare better, with rates at just above 150 basis points.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Molly Katchpole, who petitioned Bank of America to drop its $5 debit card fee, cuts up her card. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) CHART: New Set of Realities: Revenue and income at the nation's biggest banks have fallen recently. (Sources: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Federal Reserve
 Trepp) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBIT CARDS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOE BIDEN (50%); RICHARD DURBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



434 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: For Archie Comics, a Return to Superheroes

BYLINE: By GEORGE GENE GUSTINES

 BODY:
The comic-reading public may need to revise its vision of Archie Andrews, the perpetual teenager from Riverdale. This year alone Archie Comics has announced a continuing series for Kevin Keller, the town's openly gay resident, digital versions of its regular series on the same day they are released in comic stores, and Spanish translations of its material for download.
At the New York Comic Con this week, Archie Comics will reveal its next step in the digital frontier. In spring, the company will bring back its line of superhero characters in a subscription model that will offer an original six-page story and access to an archive of past adventures. 
''It's very exciting to be creating the first brand-new digital comic book label,'' said Jon Goldwater, the co-chief executive of Archie Comics Publications.
Besides the possibility of reaching an audience beyond the comic book stores, there was a second advantage to this digital model. ''Financially, it makes sense,'' Mr. Goldwater said. ''We are not going to have any print costs. To be a slave to printing prices when you're starting a new venture is a tremendous concern.''
The idea for this initiative came up in July during the Comic Con International in San Diego. The Archie crew was meeting with Michael Murphey, the founder and chief executive of iVerse Media, a distributor of digital content. The two companies teamed up to bring Archie into the digital world in 2008. Between comics available for free, and those that have been purchased, Archie is closing in on three million downloads.
Mr. Murphey was a fan of Archie's superheroes, who are often referred to as the Red Circle based on an earlier imprint that published them. The characters include The Fly, which was created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby and introduced in 1959, and The Shield, a patriotic hero who had his first adventure in 1940, predating Captain America by a year. The champions banded together as The Mighty Crusaders.
''When Marvel sold to Disney, and with DC owned by Warner Brothers, I thought those characters are the only superheroes left that are not owned by a major studio,'' Mr. Murphey said.
Archie last published the characters in 1985. DC Comics licensed them from Archie and released stories in 1991 and in 2008, but both attempts were short lived.
The premise of the digital series, written by Ian Flynn and illustrated by Ben Bates, begins with the heroes largely in retirement in a suburb called the Red Circle. Their enemies find and dispatch the heroes, forcing the next generation, who will be overseen by The Shield, to save the day, thus paving the way for The New Crusaders, the title of the series.
Tonally, the stories will be similar to ''The Incredibles,'' Mr. Goldwater said. ''They are not going to be water-downed superheroes, but they are not going to be dark either.''
The digital marketplace is of growing importance to the comic book industry. As part of the DC Comics initiative to reinvigorate its superhero universe with new No. 1 issues, the company also began selling digital copies of its series on the same day as print publication. Last month, Slave Labor Graphics Publishing, a smaller company, announced it would offer its periodicals only in digital form, saving the print versions for collected editions.
''Publishing and profiting from periodical format comics has become increasingly irrelevant for most indie comics publishers,'' wrote Heidi MacDonald, editor for The Beat, a blog that covers comics.
Archie's latest digital initiative will be similar to Netflix, Mr. Goldwater said. ''It will be a nominal monthly charge with access to new comics and thousands and thousands of pages from the archive.''
That trove of material will include stories that have not previously been reprinted. But the archive is meant to enrich the reading experience, not bog it down. It was important to give subscribers a full story that was not mired in decades of continuity, Mr. Goldwater said.
The price, which has not been set, is another important consideration. ''Value, value, value. That's what we want to give at Archie Comics,'' said Mr. Goldwater, who said he expected the subscription fee to be no more expensive than a regular comic book ($2.99 or $3.99). ''We're very conscious of what's going on in the economy right now. We want to be recession busters. We don't want to gouge our fans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon Goldwater, co-chief executive of Archie Comics, said a new generation of characters would be called The New Crusaders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (76%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



435 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Some Murkiness On Volcker Rule

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
It was a tall order, but America's banking regulators have taken a good stab at devising a framework for the Volcker Rule.
A draft, obtained by The American Banker newspaper, suggests that regulators minimized the most worrying aspect of the rule: that a ban on proprietary trading could undermine client-focused market-making. But it still leaves gray areas.
There is still no definition of what constitutes short-term or near-term trading. Perhaps that is intentional. A clear time limit would create an easy hurdle to jump for any prop-trading-like investments. Wall Street could simply hold them until the deadline passes. 
But not offering a definition creates confusion. Not all proprietary trades are short-term. Morgan Stanley's disastrous 2007 subprime mortgage bet, which lost almost $10 billion, was on the bank's books for almost a year.
It is not the only woolly part. How would the rule distinguish in practice whether a bank's market-making inventory was purely market-making or was straying into betting the firm's capital? Same goes for how much of a new stock or bond issue a bank might ''reasonably'' hold as an underwriter.
These can be hard to pin down, especially in fear-stricken markets where liquidity can dry up quickly.
Nor have regulators found an easy way of monitoring bank trading activity. Those with more than $5 billion in trading assets and liabilities must provide data from 17 different measures. That looks like overkill.
With so many individual inputs from each trading desk and no higher-level early warning system, there is a danger that perfectly decent trades could get flagged.
Even if later cleared, banks may cut some services simply to avoid the hassle. That could reduce liquidity and overload watchdogs that lack resources to do their jobs.
And there is still room for banks to get in trouble. There is no restriction, for example, on trading government and mortgage-agency debt, something that helped fell Long-Term Capital Management.
Some of the murkier aspects can be clarified during a two-month comment period. But it sounds as though the idea put forward by Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman for whom the rule is named, that prop trading is like obscenity -- you know it when you see it -- was too simplistic for this complex task.
South Korea's Debt
South Korea has assumed its battle stations. The retreat by investors from emerging markets has exposed the country's reliance on short-term foreign credit, sending its markets spinning and prompting Lee Myung Bak, the prime minister, to call the first economic crisis meeting in almost a year. Banks and government balance sheets look sturdy, but an economic slump centered on indebted households is a real risk.
South Korean consumers have been able to borrow cheaply for years thanks to huge inflows of cash and credit. Like other Asian economies, South Korea has suppressed its currency to keep exports competitive while keeping markets open to foreign investment.
Policy makers stayed the course despite damaging capital outflows in 1997 and 2008, instead using measures to moderate capital inflows.
With Europe in turmoil, the flows are again reversing. On many measures, though, South Korea is in good shape. External debt is a third of its gross domestic product. Roughly 40 percent, or $150 billion, of that matures within two years. But South Korea has over $300 billion in foreign exchange reserves and a generous current account surplus, so it should avoid a balance of payments crisis.
Banks also appear unlikely to face solvency problems. They owe some three-quarters of South Korea's short-term external debt, slightly more than a third of which is from European banks.
The good news, however, is that most of the borrowers are themselves foreign banks: South Korean institutions represent only 45 percent of short-term external borrowing, just 6 percent of overall loans. A financing crisis also looks unlikely.
Mr. Lee may still be right to worry. Although European banks did not lend directly to households, if they withdraw funds, it could put a roughly $75 billion hole in Korea's credit landscape.
That might push up borrowing costs on roughly $700 billion of loans to consumers and leave some borrowers in distress.
The outstanding debt of South Korean households is more than double yearly disposable income, almost the level that American household debt reached before the subprime mortgage crisis erupted in 2007.
Only 1.3 percent of bank loans are nonperforming now, but the rate could rise quickly if households start to default. South Korea's finances look strong. They may need to be.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea has called an economic crisis meeting to discuss household debt. (POOL PHOTO BY JUNG YEON-JE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); BOND ISSUES (69%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (70%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



436 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Labor Talks In Detroit Go Social

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- For generations, labor negotiations here have been the stuff of closed doors and tight lips. Just four years ago, when the United Auto Workers settled on contracts with the Big Three, the rank-and-file learned the details by crowding into union halls for meetings that were often chaotic and confusing. Many workers complained that they had not seen the fine print until the deals had been ratified.
But like so much in the American auto industry, the old rules of bargaining no longer apply. In recent weeks, the U.A.W.'s Web site crashed in the hours after new contracts were unveiled with General Motors and the Ford Motor Company because so many workers were downloading them.
And how did many workers learn about the deals? Through Facebook pages and Twitter feeds kept up to date, often late into the night, by union staff members stationed in the halls outside the bargaining rooms. For the first time, the union also worked with each company to set up secure Web sites that allowed workers to receive e-mail updates. 
''We may have gotten a lot more done in the past, and things would have gone smoother provided we had tools like this,'' said General Holiefield, the U.A.W. vice president in charge of negotiations with Chrysler, who explained his approach to the talks in a four-minute video posted on YouTube and Facebook last week. ''I couldn't see going forward without using these.''
Talks with Chrysler have not concluded, though plant leaders from across the country have been summoned to Detroit for a meeting on Monday, signaling that discussions are in the final stages.
Some labor specialists say the wave of social networking this year has provided a bigger window than before into the negotiating process in Detroit, even though the talks still occur in private. Not only is communication more instant and accurate, but it has been extended to people previously left on the sidelines, including retirees.
''There is unprecedented openness about this process,'' said Kristin Dziczek, labor analyst for the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''You're not getting the blow-by-blow, but they're being much more open and transparent in communicating with their members and with the public, who, quite frankly, made a major investment in saving these companies.''
Through Facebook, autoworkers at plants in Kansas City, Mo., or Kokomo, Ind., have been able to voice concerns and ask questions directly to the bargaining teams, something they could not do in past years. Facebook helped workers at a Chrysler factory in Dundee, Mich., gather support before voting last month to join the national contract; they had previously been covered by a separate agreement that provided less job security.
While the U.A.W. worked to repair its Web site last week, it posted a summary of the Ford contract on Facebook, and received more than 500 comments in response. Since ratification meetings started, the moderators of the U.A.W.'s page for Ford workers have been busy answering requests to clarify sections of the contract language, sometimes responding within minutes.
In several instances, the union used Facebook to rebut rumors being disseminated on plant floors or in the news media, rather than allowing them to spread unchallenged. Shortly after a Detroit television station reported that workers would get a signing bonus of $7,500, a message posted on Facebook from Jimmy Settles, the union's vice president in charge of Ford negotiations, described the report as inaccurate and ''designed to intentionally create false expectations.'' The finished deal included a bonus of $6,000 for most workers, some of whom had begun posting on Facebook that they would vote against any contract with a bonus of less than $15,000.
''It allowed us to get to the membership quickly,'' Mr. Settles said in an interview. ''The one thing we always had to combat was the expectations of our members. Historically, we didn't have the apparatus to get that information out.''
The Chrysler team reacted similarly last week to quell speculation that the talks were headed to arbitration. Chrysler workers agreed in 2009, as part of the company's government-aided bankruptcy, to give up their right to strike and that any impasse would be sent to binding arbitration, a result that both parties have said they want to avoid.
Art Reyes, the president of U.A.W. Local 651 in Flint, Mich., said Facebook had gone a long way toward ''demystifying'' the complex negotiations.
He has been active on Facebook himself, posting frequently on a page he created for his local and participating in many conversations on the U.A.W.'s G.M. page during the talks. Mr. Reyes represents a G.M. parts processing plant staffed entirely by entry-level workers, many of whom are in their 20s, new to the bargaining process and more likely to engage one another online than at the union hall.
''They're used to expressing themselves on Facebook or on Twitter. Getting real-time answers is something they have an expectation of,'' he said. ''Nothing feeds the rumor mill like a lack of information.''
To be sure, the union still has kept most details of negotiations closely guarded, leading some members to grumble on Facebook that they are still in the dark. In fact, complaints -- about the secretive process, the union's leadership and the finished contracts -- have become common, as they are on many Internet forums. But the page administrators say they have let most critical comments stand uncensored, stepping in only when they spot inaccurate information and to delete posts with foul language. After the G.M. contract was settled, however, the union noticed many comments from retirees who were angry that they would not receive their traditional pension increases or Christmas bonuses, and responded with a long statement.
The message said the cuts were caused by G.M.'s significantly underfunded pensions and the large number of retirees. It said the union had considered having active workers pay into a Christmas bonus fund for retirees but that would cost each worker $6,000. ''Obviously, this is not possible in these economic times,'' the post said.
The U.A.W.'s Facebook page for G.M. differs from those for Chrysler and Ford in that it is run with the company. G.M. saw the site as an important way to ensure members could quickly receive information from the company as well as from union leaders, Kim Carpenter, a G.M. spokeswoman, said. More than 11,000 people have subscribed to the page.
''There's a lot of different filters out there, and this enables us to communicate directly with the membership, and we think that's a good thing,'' Ms. Carpenter said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); WEB SITES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); TWITTER INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



437 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Panic Of the Plutocrats

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
It remains to be seen whether the Occupy Wall Street protests will change America's direction. Yet the protests have already elicited a remarkably hysterical reaction from Wall Street, the super-rich in general, and politicians and pundits who reliably serve the interests of the wealthiest hundredth of a percent.
And this reaction tells you something important -- namely, that the extremists threatening American values are what F.D.R. called ''economic royalists,'' not the people camping in Zuccotti Park. 
Consider first how Republican politicians have portrayed the modest-sized if growing demonstrations, which have involved some confrontations with the police -- confrontations that seem to have involved a lot of police overreaction -- but nothing one could call a riot. And there has in fact been nothing so far to match the behavior of Tea Party crowds in the summer of 2009.
Nonetheless, Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, has denounced ''mobs'' and ''the pitting of Americans against Americans.'' The G.O.P. presidential candidates have weighed in, with Mitt Romney accusing the protesters of waging ''class warfare,'' while Herman Cain calls them ''anti-American.'' My favorite, however, is Senator Rand Paul, who for some reason worries that the protesters will start seizing iPads, because they believe rich people don't deserve to have them.
Michael Bloomberg, New York's mayor and a financial-industry titan in his own right, was a bit more moderate, but still accused the protesters of trying to ''take the jobs away from people working in this city,'' a statement that bears no resemblance to the movement's actual goals.
And if you were listening to talking heads on CNBC, you learned that the protesters ''let their freak flags fly,'' and are ''aligned with Lenin.''
The way to understand all of this is to realize that it's part of a broader syndrome, in which wealthy Americans who benefit hugely from a system rigged in their favor react with hysteria to anyone who points out just how rigged the system is.
Last year, you may recall, a number of financial-industry barons went wild over very mild criticism from President Obama. They denounced Mr. Obama as being almost a socialist for endorsing the so-called Volcker rule, which would simply prohibit banks backed by federal guarantees from engaging in risky speculation. And as for their reaction to proposals to close a loophole that lets some of them pay remarkably low taxes -- well, Stephen Schwarzman, chairman of the Blackstone Group, compared it to Hitler's invasion of Poland.
And then there's the campaign of character assassination against Elizabeth Warren, the financial reformer now running for the Senate in Massachusetts. Not long ago a YouTube video of Ms. Warren making an eloquent, down-to-earth case for taxes on the rich went viral. Nothing about what she said was radical -- it was no more than a modern riff on Oliver Wendell Holmes's famous dictum that ''Taxes are what we pay for civilized society.''
But listening to the reliable defenders of the wealthy, you'd think that Ms. Warren was the second coming of Leon Trotsky. George Will declared that she has a ''collectivist agenda,'' that she believes that ''individualism is a chimera.'' And Rush Limbaugh called her ''a parasite who hates her host. Willing to destroy the host while she sucks the life out of it.''
What's going on here? The answer, surely, is that Wall Street's Masters of the Universe realize, deep down, how morally indefensible their position is. They're not John Galt; they're not even Steve Jobs. They're people who got rich by peddling complex financial schemes that, far from delivering clear benefits to the American people, helped push us into a crisis whose aftereffects continue to blight the lives of tens of millions of their fellow citizens.
Yet they have paid no price. Their institutions were bailed out by taxpayers, with few strings attached. They continue to benefit from explicit and implicit federal guarantees -- basically, they're still in a game of heads they win, tails taxpayers lose. And they benefit from tax loopholes that in many cases have people with multimillion-dollar incomes paying lower rates than middle-class families.
This special treatment can't bear close scrutiny -- and therefore, as they see it, there must be no close scrutiny. Anyone who points out the obvious, no matter how calmly and moderately, must be demonized and driven from the stage. In fact, the more reasonable and moderate a critic sounds, the more urgently he or she must be demonized, hence the frantic sliming of Elizabeth Warren.
So who's really being un-American here? Not the protesters, who are simply trying to get their voices heard. No, the real extremists here are America's oligarchs, who want to suppress any criticism of the sources of their wealth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ASSASSINATION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CAMPING (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC CANTOR (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); RAND PAUL (55%); HERMAN CAIN (55%); ELIZABETH WARREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



438 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Is the Tea Party Over?

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
Austin, Tex.
This was supposed to be the Tea Party's time. The incumbent president the rebels despise so much seemed vulnerable. The Republican establishment was AWOL, leaderless or intimidated. So the angry, God-fearing, government-loathing populist insurgents rushed into the vacuum, fired up the town halls, helped put a halt to any compromising in Congress and basically commandeered the national debate.
Then, for much of this year, they dominated the auditions for a presidential challenger.
In a spectacle about as deliberative as speed-dating, candidate after candidate tried out for the role of Not Mitt Romney -- including, at times, Mitt Romney. We had the Sarah Palin tease, replaced by the short-lived Michele Bachmann infatuation, after which everyone swooned, briefly, for Rick Perry. Herman Cain is having a little fling now, though even voters who like his style don't think he can win. Rick Santorum, who is in some ways the moralizing social conscience of the Tea Party, and Ron Paul, who plays its geeky libertarian id, have settled into single digits and bit parts as debate foils. Newt Gingrich is the class cutup, blowing raspberries at journalists. 
To be fair, some of this unedifying scramble can indeed be blamed on the press corps. Special props go to the hyperactive political news sites that crave a fresh narrative every 15 minutes, even if it's a sitcom like Donald Trump. And a hat tip to Fox News, which has helped trivialize the campaign by offering a platform to one not-ready-for-prime-time Republican semi-celebrity after another. On behalf of journalism, sincerest apologies for wasting so much of your time.
But the fickleness of the G.O.P. is not entirely a media phenomenon. The latest Fox poll offered Republican voters a menu of 11 candidates and found that not only were voters scattered across the conservative landscape, but a quarter of the Tea Party adherents sampled were still ''not impressed'' with anyone. It's hard to impress a movement that only knows what it is against.
''Ronald Reagan couldn't get past first base in today's environment,'' said one Texas Republican operative who has turned despondent about the party's drift.
Now, barring some wild twist of fate, there are two men standing: Mitt Romney, the methodical, thrill-free, ideologically elastic technocrat from Massachusetts, who has made himself the default nominee; and the last hope of the hard core, the Not Mitt: Rick Perry.
Anyone in Texas politics will tell you it's too early to put a fork in Perry. Yes, his polls have withered under attack, and he's come across in a couple of debates as a doofus. It's hard to imagine him ever delivering a foreign policy speech as slick as the one Romney made Friday. But Rick Perry, as they like to say down here, is serious as a heart attack. And I don't think it's just that Texans have a hard time imagining Perry losing because he's never done it.
Visitors to Austin are constantly reminded that Perry has a lot of rich friends, that regional booster states South Carolina and Florida will vote early, that Romney inspires no passion in the base, and that the Texan will do whatever it takes. The assumption here is that the voters drawn to Herman Cain will revert to Perry once they realize how really far Cain is from being qualified.
Perry brings to the campaign, besides great posture and polished good looks, an economic record that looks like a vindication of Tea Party dogma, never mind that it was made possible by a quarter of America's known oil reserves, a lot of low-wage immigrants, a reluctance to waste government money on frills like education and health care, and a tax and regulatory environment out of the Wild West.
On paper -- and, for all I know, in his heart -- Perry is the most ardent of Tea Party ideologues. His book, ''Fed Up! Our Fight to Save America From Washington,'' is a manifesto of 10th Amendment hyperfederalism and radical individualism, assailing the constitutional basis of Social Security, the income tax, the Federal Reserve, consumer protection, and ''federal laws regulating the environment, regulating guns, protecting civil rights, establishing the massive programs and Medicare and Medicaid, creating national minimum wage laws, establishing national labor laws,'' and so on.
The editor of Texas Monthly, Jake Silverstein, sums up Perry as ''a child of the mythology of the frontier,'' in which ''every man is more or less for himself, a good neighbor is one who needs no help, and efforts by the government to interfere are not to be trusted.''
To this Perry adds a damn-the-pointy-heads denialism -- global warming is a hoax, evolution is just ''a theory that's out there'' -- as well as a wink to the evangelicals, a nod to the executioner, and an ardent defense of personal liberties for those who are heterosexual and don't need an abortion. He may not believe in evolution, but his survival-of-the-fittest view of society is pretty Darwinian.
Temperamentally, he has a fever of class resentment that appeals to voters who see themselves trodden by elites. Perry knows the right way to hold a pitchfork.
There are plenty of Perry-watchers who see him as less of a populist ideologue and more of an opportunist, which is an unkind way of saying he is a politician.
''He looked on paper like the Marlboro Tea Party guy,'' a member of a rival Republican camp told me. ''It turned out he's vacuous and practical. So the bloom is off the rose.''
Maybe. But whatever you think of his deviations from Tea Party purity, they make some sense in the context of Texas. His decision to let children of illegal immigrants attend state colleges at the in-state tuition rate, which so scandalizes the zero-tolerance conservatives, is conventional bipartisan pragmatism in Texas. The logic is: if the federal government can't keep illegals out, it's not our fault, but we can at least steer them away from the welfare rolls or jails and into productive lives. (It was also, of course, a gesture to the state's large Hispanic electorate.)
His cozy relationships with lobbyists, like the former aide turned representative of the company that makes the HPV vaccine, might gain him notoriety in some states; here they are part of a crony culture that Texas voters seem to take as a given. Likewise, as much as he deplores federal aid, he takes as much of it as he can get.
Perry has been clumsy at explaining his digressions from Tea Party gospel, but he doesn't have nearly as much to explain to that constituency as the blue-state front-runner. Romney, to his shame, denied citizens of Massachusetts their sacred right to breathe carbon emissions, swim at polluted beaches and dump their health crises at the emergency room. ''Romneycare'' is a burden. ''Perrycare,'' by comparison, is just another name for praying you don't get sick.
In this race, Rick Perry is the Tea Party's dream candidate, the one remaining figure who could translate a noisy backlash into serious power. If Rick Perry loses, the Tea Party will have missed the opportunity of a lifetime. If he wins, Perry being Perry, it's not entirely clear whether he will appease its members, but my guess is he'll try.
''Rick Perry is the only candidate who would actually close down a cabinet department,'' one longtime admirer told me, when I asked whether a President Perry would disappoint the Tea Party. ''You would see a very happy base -- at least for the first term.''
The rest of us are left to recall the advice handed down 10 years ago by the late, wisecracking Cassandra of Texas politics, Molly Ivins: ''Next time I tell you someone from Texas should not be president of the United States, please pay attention.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JOURNALISM (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); WRITERS (66%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); SARAH PALIN (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); RON PAUL (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



439 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Median Incomes Shrank Further After Recession

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a grim sign of the enduring nature of the economic slump, household income declined more in the two years after the recession ended than it did during the recession itself, new research has found.
Between June 2009, when the recession officially ended, and June 2011, inflation-adjusted median household income fell 6.7 percent, to $49,909, according to a study by two former Census Bureau officials. During the recession -- from December 2007 to June 2009 -- household income fell 3.2 percent.
The finding helps explain why Americans' attitudes toward the economy, the country's direction and its political leaders have continued to sour even as the economy has been growing. Unhappiness and anger have come to dominate the political scene, including the early stages of the 2012 presidential campaign. 
President Obama recently called the economic situation ''an emergency,'' and over the weekend he assailed Congressional Republicans for opposing his jobs bill, which includes tax cuts that would raise take-home pay. Republicans blame Mr. Obama for the slump, saying he has issued a blizzard of regulations and promised future tax increases that have hurt business and consumer confidence.
Those arguments may be heard repeatedly this week, as the Senate begins debating the jobs bill. The full bill -- a mix of tax cuts, public works, unemployment benefits and other items, costing $447 billion -- is unlikely to pass, but individual parts seem to have a significant chance.
The full 9.8 percent drop in income from the start of the recession to this June -- the most recent month in the study -- appears to be the largest in several decades, according to other Census Bureau data. Gordon W. Green Jr., who wrote the report with John F. Coder, called the decline ''a significant reduction in the American standard of living.''
That reduction occurred even though the unemployment rate fell slightly, to 9.2 percent in June compared with 9.5 percent two years earlier. Two main forces appear to have held down pay: the number of people outside the labor force -- neither working nor looking for work -- has risen; and the hourly pay of employed people has failed to keep pace with inflation, as the prices of oil products and many foods have jumped.
During the recession itself, by contrast, wage gains outpaced inflation.
One reason pay has stagnated is that many people who lost their jobs in the recession -- and remained out of work for months -- have taken pay cuts in order to be hired again. In a separate study, Henry S. Farber, an economics professor at Princeton, found that people who lost jobs in the recession and later found work again made an average of 17.5 percent less than they had in their old jobs.
''As a labor economist, I do not think the recession has ended,'' Mr. Farber said. ''Job losers are having more trouble than ever before finding full-time jobs.''
Mr. Farber added that this downturn was ''fundamentally different'' from most previous ones. Historically, other economists say, financial crises and debt-caused bubbles have led to deeper, more protracted downturns.
Mr. Green and Mr. Coder said the persistently high rate of unemployment and the long duration of unemployment helped explain the decline in income during the recovery.
In the recession, the average length of time a person who lost a job was unemployed increased to 24.1 weeks in June 2009, from 16.6 weeks in December 2007, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Since the end of the recession, that figure has continued to increase, reaching 40.5 weeks in September, the longest in more than 60 years.
The new study by Mr. Green and Mr. Coder is based on monthly census surveys, rather than the annual data that appeared in last month's census report on income. The monthly figures allow researchers to measure income changes more precisely during a recession or a recovery and provide more current information. The annual report is based on surveys conducted early in the following year, and people sometimes confuse how much money they are making at the time of the survey with how much they made the previous year. Additionally, recessions usually do not line up with a calendar year.
A committee of academic economists at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a private group widely considered the arbiter of the business cycle, judged that the most recent recession began in December 2007. The bureau defines a recession as a significant, broad-based decline in economic activity.
The economists said the recession ended in June 2009. In every quarter since then, the economy has grown.
Some economists see signs that the United States may be in or about to enter another recession, though the evidence is mixed.
In their new study, Mr. Green and Mr. Coder found that income dropped more, in percentage terms, for some groups already making less, a factor that they say may have contributed to rising income inequality.
From June 2007 to June of this year, they said, median annual household income declined by 7.8 percent for non-Hispanic whites, to $56,320, and by 6.8 percent for Hispanics, to $39,901. For blacks, household income declined 9.2 percent, to $31,784.
Mr. Green and Mr. Coder, who both worked at the Census Bureau for more than 25 years, found other income changes over the four-year period examined.
For example, income, after adjustment for inflation, declined fairly substantially for households headed by people under age 62, but it rose 4.7 percent for those headed by people 65 to 74, many of whom are not in the labor force. The change was negligible for those 62 to 64.
The type of employment also made a difference. Real median annual income declined to a similar degree for households headed by private-sector wage workers (4.3 percent) and government-sector workers (3.9 percent), but fell much more for the self-employed (12.3 percent).
Family households generally had larger declines in real income than other households. Men living alone showed a bigger decline than women living alone.
Education levels were also a factor. Median annual income declined most for households headed by someone with an associate's degree, dropping 14 percent, to $53,195, in the four-year period that ended in June 2011, the report said.
For households headed by people who had not completed high school, median income declined by 7.9 percent, to $25,157. For those with a bachelor's degree or more, income declined by 6.8 percent, to $82,846.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, talking about his jobs bill in a news conference Thursday, called the economic situation ''an emergency.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) CHART: Declining Income: Real household income has fallen by about 10 percent since the start of the last recession, with a greater decline after the recession ended. (Sources: Analysis of Current Population Survey data by Gordon W. Green Jr. and John F. Coder, Sentier Research) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); CENSUS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); DISMISSALS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



440 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: After Rocky Start, More Study For Perry, and More Sleep, Too

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- Gov. Rick Perry of Texas struggled through his first three debates, so his aides have staged practice sessions, complete with a stand-in for Mitt Romney. He has stirred outrage among conservatives on immigration, so he is defending his stance on the campaign trail as good economics.
And as he prepares for two more debates in the next nine days, along with his first major policy address, his advisers have devised another way to help: requiring Mr. Perry to get more sleep.
After weeks in which he has stirred doubts about his abilities as a candidate, Mr. Perry is re-examining his campaign -- and himself -- in an effort to correct his shortcomings of style and substance so he can capitalize on his strengths, including the $15 million he has in the bank and what he points to as a record of job creation in Texas. 
''He seems uncomfortable on the stage,'' said Sam Clovis, a conservative radio host in Sioux City who had a more favorable impression of Mr. Perry after shaking his hand during a weekend campaign stop here. ''He's going to have to get much, much better.''
The transition to being a presidential candidate has been harder than Mr. Perry expected, according to several aides and friends, who said he knew he needed to improve. His wife, Anita, who said last month that he would be ''better prepared'' in debates, accompanied him to Iowa. She jumped into the conversation at one point to make a point when he was pressed on immigration.
Mr. Perry's strategy was built on his economic message, but it has been complicated by some of his statements on illegal immigration.
He opened each campaign event on a weekend visit to Iowa by reciting the steps he had taken to enforce immigration laws, trying to fight an impression pushed by his rivals that he is soft on illegal immigration because he signed legislation granting in-state tuition to illegal immigrants at public universities and colleges.
He argued that helping some illegal immigrants get a college education was a proper response to the failure of the federal government to secure the border, because it would increase their ability to become productive citizens.
''We wanted to make taxpayers, not tax wasters,'' Mr. Perry said, responding to one of several questions from voters on the topic. ''The issue was really driven by economics.''
Mr. Perry has also intensified his attacks on Mr. Romney, suggesting again over the weekend that his rival had not always been a true conservative.
With less than three months until the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary kick off the Republican nominating contest, Mr. Perry will soon begin broadcasting television advertisements to amplify the face-to-face introductions he has been having with voters. The advertising campaign, aides said, will also focus on what they say is Mr. Romney's lack of consistency on the issues of most importance to conservatives.
But Mr. Perry has clearly not fully addressed his own troubles with conservatives.
In interviews with nearly two dozen Republican voters who saw him in Iowa, sharp criticism of his views on immigration was volunteered in all but one conversation. Several people said they had planned -- and, in many cases, still hoped -- to support him, but remained undecided.
Mr. Perry raised his voice when a voter asked why so many conservative commentators were critical of his candidacy.
''America is looking for a president who will look them right in the eye and tell them the truth,'' Mr. Perry said sternly. ''They are interested not in what some pundit says or the joke of the day that they try to get a laugh during a debate or on a television station.''
For a politician who has won every election over nearly three decades in Texas, Mr. Perry's adjustment to the presidential campaign is a work in progress. He is gracious and courteous when shaking hands and signing autographs, yet when the small talk turned to Medicare's prescription drug coverage or Social Security, a grimace occasionally replaced his smile.
He raced through campaign events, delivering speeches that clocked in around eight minutes. He quickly moved to question-and-answer sessions, but after calling on five people, he shouted, ''Last question!'' (Most candidates assign that task to an aide to avoid the impression that it is the candidate who is eager to go.)
Yet by raising $17 million in the opening weeks of his campaign -- more than any other candidate in the race -- Mr. Perry is preparing for a long-term strategy of competing aggressively in all parts of the country against Mr. Romney. The $15 million he had remaining as of Sept. 30 is helping him build a robust ground organization in Iowa, where he is hoping an early victory will give him a lift in a drawn-out nominating fight.
''I don't think it's impossible for him to recover,'' Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican, said in an interview. ''It's a test that you've got to go through if you want to be president of the United States. I certainly wouldn't count Rick Perry out.''
Yet a lot has changed since the August morning when Mr. Branstad first talked strategy over a private breakfast of eggs and bacon with Mr. Perry at Terrace Hill, the governor's mansion in Des Moines. Mr. Branstad urged his fellow Republican to keep his message focused tightly on the new jobs that have been created in Texas and not allow the conversation to stray.
Mr. Perry and his team were initially taken aback by intense criticism from conservatives, particularly on immigration and Social Security, which he characterized as a ''Ponzi scheme,'' a phrase he did not repeat when he talked to voters here.
Aides said there was a recognition that he must perform better in debates on Tuesday in New Hampshire and next week in Nevada if he hoped to retain his position as the leading Republican alternative to Mr. Romney.
''We had a tired puppy,'' said one Republican friend, who talked to Mr. Perry after his three back-to-back debates last month. ''He had been pushed really hard.''
But his weekend visit to Iowa, where he made four public appearances and met privately with religious leaders and influential party activists, underscored that his challenges are not limited to the debate stage. Several Republican voters who turned out for his campaign events said they knew little about him, aside from the recent debates, and walked away disappointed that they had not learned more.
Steven Berntson, 57, a corn and soybean farmer from Paullina, asked Mr. Perry to discuss the books that have shaped his life. Mr. Perry replied by citing the free-market economist Friedrich Hayek, but did not name the title of his well-known book, ''The Road to Serfdom,'' as he criticized Keynesian economics and turned back to a general conversation about the economy.
After Mr. Perry finished speaking, as he shook hands and signed autographs nearby, Mr. Berntson said that he was disappointed by the answer and by the fact that he had mentioned only one book.
''I wanted to see how deep he was,'' Mr. Berntson said. ''I asked an open-ended question that I thought would give the candidate lots and lots of room to help us know who he is. And he talked about it for less than one minute.''
Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who represents the swath of the state Mr. Perry visited, said voters were eager to explore Mr. Perry's views on immigration and the economy in greater depth. He said the next two debates would offer another opportunity for Mr. Perry.
''His momentum has diminished, but there was an expectation for him that was built beyond reality,'' Mr. King said. ''People still want to take a look and find out who the real Rick Perry is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry giving a speech last week in Washington. His aides have been working closely with him to correct missteps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); TUITION FEES (66%); BORDER CONTROL (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



441 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Germany and France Say Deal on Banks Is Near

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and JUDY DEMPSEY

 BODY:
Acknowledging that Europe's banks still need billions of euros to cushion against a possible default by Greece, the leaders of Germany and France announced on Sunday that they would have a package of reforms by the time leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in early November.
''We are determined to do everything necessary to ensure the recapitalization of Europe's banks,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel said in Berlin after meeting with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. 
But beyond promising closer coordination of economic policies for the euro zone, the two leaders declined to provide specifics on how the recapitalization would work, or how much money they would commit. The continued uncertainty could unnerve investors who hoped to see the governments take more decisive action.
The announcement came on the same day that the governments of France, Belgium and Luxembourg agreed to nationalize Dexia, Belgium's biggest bank, infusing it with billions of euros in taxpayer money after it became the first casualty of the Greek sovereign debt crisis. Government officials had raced to prop up Dexia before global financial markets opened on Monday.
Dexia, which had received a bailout in 2008, ''is the biggest euro zone bank failure in quite some time,'' said Peter Zeihan, vice president of analysis at Stratfor, a geopolitical risk analysis company based in Austin, Tex. ''It will force investors and shareholders to take second look at what they thought was stable.''
Banks like Dexia have become a flashpoint for European governments as they try to rein in the region's debt woes without worsening their own finances. Mrs. Merkel, Mr. Sarkozy and others have only recently conceded that European banks may not be as sheltered from the storm as first thought, especially if the sovereign debt situation ensnares larger countries.
If that were to happen, other banks in Europe and the United States -- as well as the governments themselves -- could come under further pressure.
But Europe's leaders remain at odds on how to achieve their goals, including the best way to shore up bank finances.
France, for example, wants to pump money from a developing bailout mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, into the banks, while Germany insists that the fund should be used only as a last resort, if the banks are not able to raise more money on their own.
The International Monetary Fund has estimated that Europe's banks may need up to 300 billion euros, or about $400 billion, more capital if the debt crisis widens.
On Sunday, neither Mrs. Merkel nor Mr. Sarkozy put forth their own figure, saying they needed to consult with other European leaders. But Mrs. Merkel emphasized that European leaders would do ''everything necessary'' during a series of upcoming meetings, including one involving the 27 European Union leaders this week.
The bailout of Dexia comes as both governments are trying to pay down their own countries' deficits and debts. In France, some officials have sounded the alarm that too big of a bailout for Dexia could menace the nation's sterling debt rating, a notion the finance minister, Francois Baroin, has been quick to dismiss.
Belgium is in a more difficult situation. Its debt is 97.2 percent of gross domestic product, the third highest in the euro zone, after Greece and Italy. Moody's Investors Service on Friday warned it could downgrade Belgium's rating if support of Dexia lifted Belgium's debt and investors started pushing up its borrowing costs. Officials say the bailout of 4 billion euros would not raise its debt much higher.
It was the second bailout in three years for Dexia, a lender to European and American cities that got into trouble in 2008 after a huge portfolio of subprime loans it owned went sour. Dexia received billions of euros from France and Belgium, and was the biggest European recipient of loans from the Federal Reserve's discount window at the time.
Dexia, which has global credit exposure of about $700 billion, plans to create a so-called bad bank to house its troubled assets, including billions of euros' worth of Greek, Italian, Portuguese and Irish debt. On Sunday night, the governments were still haggling over how to split the bill.
France gave Belgium approval to buy up to 100 percent of Dexia's Belgian consumer bank, Bloomberg News reported. Dexia's French municipal financing arm would be split from the group and merged with the French state bank Caisse des Depots and the banking arm of the French postal service, Banque Postale.
Dexia had almost recovered from its previous stumble when its troubles flared anew in recent weeks. Indeed, just three months ago, Dexia passed a round of stress tests for European banks, although regulators last week ordered a review of those tests to account for a lower value of government debt.
This month, banks rapidly started pulling back on lending to Dexia, and Moody's placed the bank on review for a downgrade.
Last week, Dexia's stock price plunged 42 percent and, as it neared collapse, trading in its shares was halted on Thursday.
Dexia's fortunes, and those of many European banks, remain tethered to what happens to Greece. Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, said in an interview with the Sunday edition of the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ''that we assumed in July a level of debt reduction that was too low'' for Greece, implying Greece faced difficulties ahead and even more support.
Mrs. Merkel, now increasingly concerned about any run on the banking system, told finance ministers and leaders from the World Bank and the I.M.F. last week in Berlin that Germany supported a coordinated bank recapitalization program.
Mrs. Merkel does not want to funnel more taxpayer money to the banks before they try going to the markets to raise capital. But she acknowledged in recent meetings in Berlin with World Bank and I.M.F. officials that Germany would not hold back in bolstering the banks if necessary. Failure to do so, she said, would lead to ''vastly higher damage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany spoke of bank reforms on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODD ANDERSEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 The Brussels headquarters of Dexia. Officials agreed to a rescue plan for the bank on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES LOGGHE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (87%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%)

COMPANY: DEXIA SA (92%)

TICKER: DEXB (BRU) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) TEXAS, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (93%); GREECE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



442 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: A Deal for the Deals: Expanding trade and helping displaced workers are both good for the country

 BODY:
Trade is good for the economy and for employment. It opens new markets for businesses and allows access to cheaper, often better products from abroad. But it also has a dark side for workers displaced by foreign competition. 
So it is good to hear that Congressional Republicans and the White House have finally reached an agreement to pass both the long-delayed trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama and an expanded package of benefits for displaced workers. We hope this rare moment of cooperation -- and the deal -- will hold.
Last week, the White House submitted the three trade agreements to the House and Senate, which have 90 days to give them an up or down vote without amendments. Congress is expected to take up the bills on Wednesday. The trade pacts are likely to pass quickly. House Republicans must keep their promise and pass the benefits package, too.
The deal did not end the political posturing, of course. Republicans are slamming President Obama for taking so long to submit the pacts. But it was President George W. Bush who negotiated the deals and failed to get them through. Mr. Obama was ready to move months ago, as long as Republicans agreed to extend trade adjustment benefits for jobless workers.
Democrats, whose allies among labor unions are skeptical of the benefits of trade, blocked approval of the trade pacts when they took over Congress in 2007. President Obama reopened the deals last year and gained extra concessions. Korea offered a better deal to American carmakers. Colombia promised new protections for its union workers. Panama amended laws to increase financial transparency and clamp down on money laundering.
The White House also agreed to cut some of the benefits package to win Republican support, reducing the cost to $1.2 billion over five years. It would still provide health insurance and extended unemployment benefits to displaced workers until 2013. The logjam was broken last month after the Senate passed the benefits package by a bipartisan majority of 70 to 27. Last week, House Speaker John Boehner promised the adjustment assistance would be brought to a vote ''consecutively and in tandem'' with the trade pacts. Now it's time to act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); APPROVALS (74%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (64%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



443 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Another Traumatic Month for Paulson

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: One of the largest funds run by John A. Paulson is off nearly 50 percent, with other portfolios showing double digit losses for September. 

 BODY:
Tired of incessant leaks to the media about its poor performance, Paulson & Company, the hedge fund started by the billionaire John A. Paulson, decided a few weeks ago to amend its reporting policies to make it harder to obtain performance data. 
But the changes failed to obscure this painful fact: one of his largest funds is down 47 percent through September, a loss that would require returns of almost 100 percent to surmount, according to investors in the fund. The nonleveraged version of the same fund is down about 32 percent, according to the investors. 
Other funds that were doing fine earlier this year are now also taking a nosedive, including Mr. Paulson's gold fund ( up 1 percent for the year after falling 16 percent last month), which placed bets on various assets linked to gold, as well as his Recovery fund (down 31 percent for the year), which placed a bet on the recovery of the United States economy. Both funds were hit with double digits losses in September after gold prices fell and stock market volatility continued.
Such reporting changes are common in the world of hedge funds. For many of the indexes and databases, information is collected on a voluntary basis, and often funds stop reporting in bad times. In Mr. Paulson's case, investors say that instead of giving updates on each fund's performance to all investors, the data now show only those funds in which an investor had money.
Redemptions through September were low, somewhere in the neighborhood of 2 to 3 percent of overall assets, according to an investor, as fund devotees stick with Mr. Paulson through this rough patch. 
And while a new window to make redemption requests arrives on Oct. 31 for his Advantage funds, mass withdrawals are not a foregone conclusion, according to investors. On Tuesday, Paulson & Company has scheduled a conference call with investors.
Mr. Paulson has aggressively raised assets ever since shorting the subprime mortgage market minted billions for him and his fund. Many of his new investors are high-net-worth clients at major banks like Morgan Stanley, who are notoriously quick to flee. But his more enduring investors, those who made money alongside him in 2007, may be more reluctant to leave, some say. 
One investor noted that since the assets Paulson & Company owns are so depressed, it could make sense to hang in until markets snap back.
It has been a bad year for Mr. Paulson's firm. While the performance of a number of big hedge funds has been held flat this year by choppy markets, Paulson & Company began experiencing big losses early on. The firm lost nearly $500 million on a failed investment in a Chinese timber concern after a researcher betting against the stock accused the company of fraud. Later, as the markets fell on European debt concerns, Paulson & Company's portfolio tumbled along with it.

        
Canada Halts Trading in Sino-Forest of China
        
Paulson Speaks Out on Sino-Forest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BONDS (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); SUBPRIME LENDING (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) John A. Paulson; Paulson & Company; Sino Forest; Paulson, John A; Banking and Financial Institutions; Hedge Funds; Metals and Minerals; Stocks and Bonds; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; United States Economy; Morgan Stanley; Paulson & Co; Europe; United States; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley; Paulson & Co

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Paulson, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%) Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



444 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Venture Capital Fund-Raising Tumbles in Third Quarter

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Venture capital firms raised $1.72 billion in the third quarter, the lowest level since 2003, according to a report released on Monday by Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association. 

 BODY:
With the market for initial public offerings still on ice and dark clouds looming over the United States economy, the venture capital industry is struggling to raise money. 
Venture capital firms raised $1.72 billion in the third quarter, the lowest level since 2003, according to a report released on Monday by Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association. The amount also represented a 53 percent plunge from the period a year earlier. In all, 52 firms managed to raise money in the quarter, a 4 percent decrease. 
The industry started the year on a strong note amid soaring enthusiasm for fast-rising Internet companies like Facebook and Groupon. Several major firms, which managed to get shares in these companies early, were able to parlay their success into big fund-raising rounds. Accel, for instance, one of Facebook's earliest backers, announced in June that it had closed two funds, totaling $1.35 billion in new capital.
But recent market volatility has started to wear on the industry. Venture-backed companies, including Groupon, have delayed their public offerings. In the third quarter, just five venture-backed companies went public. Valuations, meanwhile, have started to tighten across the board, according to analysts. 
"The quarter's low fund-raising numbers are reflective of ongoing challenges within the venture capital exit markets," Mark Heesen, president of the National Venture Capital Association, said in a statement. "Until we begin to see a steady and sustainable flow of quality I.P.O.'s which return cash, limited partners will remain on the sidelines, and the venture industry will continue to contract."

        
A Slowdown in Venture-Backed I.P.O.'s
        
In Board Nominee, News Corp. Scores a Savvy Investor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (96%); FUNDRAISING (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%) Accel; Facebook; fundraising; Groupon; nvca; Venture Capital; Initial Public Offerings; Accel Partners; Facebook Inc; National Venture Capital Assn; Thomson Reuters Corporation; Europe; United States; Thomson Reuters Corporation|TRI|NYSE

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (65%); GROUPON INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Accel Partners; Facebook Inc; Groupon; National Venture Capital Assn; Thomson Reuters Corporation

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%) Thomson Reuters Corporation; TRI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%) Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



445 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Prostate Test Finding Leaves a Swirl of Confusion

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: For men living with a diagnosis of prostate cancer, the news that the P.S.A. test does more harm than good has been unsettling and confusing. 

 BODY:
For men living with a diagnosis of prostate cancer, the news that the P.S.A. test does more harm than good has been unsettling and confusing.
After all, that is the test that first led to their diagnosis - and, often, a painful and traumatic course of treatment.
And now they tell us it doesn't work?
"You will find mixed opinions from those of us who had to deal with it," said a 78-year-old man from Boston who was left impotent and incontinent after his prostate was removed 11 years ago. "My current feeling is not anger; it's sadness that I probably made the wrong choices and the consequences were both negative and not expected." (He and another man quoted in this column asked not to be identified.)
This week, the United States Preventive Services Task Force is expected to announce its recommendation against routine testing for blood levels of prostate-specific antigen, the protein that can be a signal of prostate cancer. The panel says research shows that over all, the test does not save lives and leads to unnecessary surgery and radiation treatment for slow-growing cancers that would never have caused harm. As for faster-growing, invasive cancers, there's no proof that P.S.A. tests and earlier treatment offer any overall benefit.
Many men do remain convinced that the test saved their lives by helping their doctors detect cancer in its earliest stages. But others are now left second-guessing their decisions, questioning a medical system that pressured them not only to undergo screening, but to be treated aggressively once cancer was detected.
Ten years ago, several doctors urged William Lewis of Washington, now 69, to have his prostate removed after a spike in his P.S.A. levels led to a biopsy and a diagnosis of cancer. But his own research led him to a "watchful waiting" program at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where he now undergoes regular checkups and biopsies to make sure his cancer hasn't progressed.
"My urologist said, 'Definitely prostatectomy,' as did other people," Mr. Lewis said. But "absolutely nothing has showed up that would suggest treatment is in order.
"A lot of people are living with prostate cancer not knowing it and never knowing they have it," he went on. "It's just a common fact of life for men."
But doctors are divided about when to recommend watchful waiting. The decision can be guided by an indicator called the Gleason score, a measure of the aggressiveness of the cancer found in a biopsy, but there is often disagreement about how to care for men whose scores are in the middle - neither highly aggressive nor probably not aggressive. In addition, the biopsy process itself is imprecise; a standard "12-core biopsy" gives information about only one three-thousandth of the prostate, says Dr. Eric Klein of the Cleveland Clinic. According to research at Johns Hopkins, staging and grading mistakes occur in about 20 percent of specimens.
"You can't be sure that even if you've found a cancer that is low-grade and seems innocuous that you haven't missed a more aggressive cancer," he said. "That's the major limitation that leads to patient and family and physician uncertainty about who can be watched and who can't be watched."
Bill Murin, a 67-year-old retired university professor in Racine, Wis., had prostate surgery after a spike in his P.S.A. led to a cancer diagnosis when he was 64. He said that his recovery had been "satisfactory," and that he had been able to resume his sex life with the help of Viagra.
He says he would probably make the same choices if he had it to do over again.
"There's no parallel universe, unfortunately," he said, adding:
"Psychologically, when someone looks you in the eye and says you have cancer, your immediate reaction is 'Get this damn thing out of here.' I'm not sure I'd be brave enough to undergo the watchful waiting."
Other patients say the problem is not the screening test but the way some doctors react to it.
"There is still a lot of pressure to just get it out," said a 48-year-old man who received his diagnosis two years ago after an elevated P.S.A. result. "The more I've learned about this in the last two years, I'm shocked at how urgently my initial urologist pushed for treatment. I'm really unhappy about this, and I think there are some major problems with the culture and the pressure."
Instead, the man enrolled in a watchful waiting program in Seattle, changed his diet and lost weight. His P.S.A. levels have dropped and subsequent biopsies have not detected cancer.
"The newer thinking is that cancer doesn't always have the same trajectory; it's not always that aggressive," he said. "Why put men in the situation where they have to make this decision if they don't need to?"
Timothy Bartik, 57, an economist in Kalamazoo, Mich., did his own research and believes that the data support P.S.A. testing, particularly for younger men. He had his prostate removed in March after getting an elevated reading, followed by a biopsy that showed he had cancer. After surgery, he learned the cancer was slightly more aggressive than the biopsy had suggested.
"You have to weigh probabilities," he said. "You have to accept that there's no certainty. Ideally, you'd have a great test that would tell you much more precisely what your chances are."

        
The Shortfalls of Early Cancer Detection
        
Answering Questions About the P.S.A. Test
        
When Should Men Stop P.S.A. Testing?
        
For Men, to Screen or Not to Screen?
        
Will Older Men Give Up the PSA Test?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROSTATE DISEASE (96%); PROSTATE CANCER (95%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); CANCER (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); UROLOGY (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (72%); INCONTINENCE (70%) P.S.A. testing; Prostate Cancer; Prostate Gland; Prostate Specific Antigen; Tests (Medical); Cancer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



446 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: A 40 Percent Chance

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: How effective is your e-mail marketing? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
Wall Street: A Growing Revolt
As the revolt grows, a Manhattan small-business ownerand another unlikely crewtake to the streets. The Rude Pundit makes a case for using predator dronesagainst Wall Street execs. After you compare your income to this Wall Street trader's, you may be angry, too.
The Economy 1: More News on Jobs
The unemployment rate for September remains at 9.1 percent. Weekly unemployment claims move up. Small-business hiring is down. But the nonfarm private business sector increased employment by 91,000. Intuit's Small Business Employment Index reports an increase in new jobs, hours worked and compensation. Scott Shane isn't impressed:"The slow pace of improvement in small-business employment hasn't even brought us close to January 2007 levels. In September 2011, businesses with under 20 workers employed nearly 1.7 million fewer people than in January 2007." Ezra Klein says the jobs bill is dead. Even with a turbulent economy, leading retailers say they expect to hire more, or at least as many, holiday workers as last year. Businesses are planning to hire new graduates, freelance and remote workers, in an effort to increase head count while remaining flexible in an uncertain market. Tech hiring remains weak, despite stronger spending, with these metro areas at the top. A tech job site, Dice, reports a shortage of .net developers.
The Data: Orders Fall, but Manufacturing Rises.
New orders for factory goods fell in August for the second time in three months. Ad spending slows worldwide. Friendly's files for bankruptcy but consumer bankruptcy filings are down 10 percent through the first nine months. Economic activity in the nonmanufacturing sector grew in September for the 22nd consecutive month. The ISM Manufacturing Index (pdf) increased unexpectedly. Companies leased slightly more office space in the third quarter. Construction spending is up. Light truck sales are up. Auto salesare booming. Rail traffic is the highest in four years.
The Economy 2: A 40 Percent Chance
Larry Kudrow says we're at the front endof a recession. Karl Smith disagrees.Goldman Sachs puts the probabilityof another recession at 40 percent for 2012. But this girl's still having fun. And how bad can things be if we're spending $800 million a year on fantasy sports? Deficit-reduction talks in Congress enter a potentially groundbreaking phase. Some economists call for a radical step: huge debt relief. Mark Thoma agrees with others that the Federal Reserve has dropped the ball. Some small-business owners support bold policiesto spur innovation.
Technology: Shatner Still Rules
Kevin Casey lists 10 great Android appsfor collaboration. The Daily App offers the apps of September. As information thievestake aim at small businesses, a new kind of insurance emerges. India unveils the cheapest tablet. Microsoft revamps Hotmail. Apple's iPhone 4S promises to usher in "Star Trek"-stylevoice recognition (and Guillermo reviews the new phone). William Shatner brings out a new book and album, and a little kid cannot believe that Darth Vader is Luke's father.
Start-Up: Kids, Get To Work!
A start-up introduces a loyalty platform for small businesses. The SmallBizLady offers 10 Web sites for starting a small business. A few wealthy whiz kids share the secrets of making a millionby the age of 21. Cindy Perman offers six tips to help your kidsfollow in their footsteps. A new company that wants to make audio from the Internet's mountains of written materialwas the winner in Tallahassee's first-ever Startup Weekend. Portland plans one, too. Lynn Terry talks about choosing the right niche: "Working in a niche you love means you actually LIKE the market, you probably your target market, you consume content from the Market Leaders, and you truly enjoy talking about the subject." Marty Zwilling says that "leaving for money" is one of five pitfallswhen jumping from corporation to start-up. (And speaking of falls, Adrian Beltre was responsible for this one.)
Around The World: A Start-Up Sauna?
Pop quiz: where does the United States rank among the world's leading countries for innovation and technology? A start-up sauna goes hunting in Siberia: "The Finnish incubator is searching such cities as Novosibirsk and Yekaterinburg for start-ups that could become great companies in the future." China warns of a trade war. Paul and Yoko give peace a chance. Yang Lan, a journalist and entrepreneur who's been called "the Oprah of China," offers insight into the next generation of young Chinese citizens.
Around the Country: And Yankees Playoff Tickets Now Cost Nothing
Score joins with the Chicago Urban League to increase minority-owned-business opportunities. Google offers free trainingto Wisconsin businesses. In New York, immigrants are playing a key roleas entrepreneurs - even though the city's proposed wage tax hike could kill 13,000 jobs. Eight states are increasing their minimum wages. New Jersey businesses are for sale at lower prices. So are tickets to see the Minnesota Vikings.
Management: To Grow or Not to Grow
According to a study, high-growth entrepreneurs plan to continue growing. But Julia Edwards says most small businesses don't want to grow: "When polled on the eve of opening, only 24 percent of small-business owners said they wanted their business to become 'as large as possible.' The majority of respondents agreed with the statement, 'I want a size I can manage myself or with a few key employees.'"
People: Being a Better Interviewer
Cyrus Sanati says that pension costs are a big reason American Airlines should consider bankruptcy. Brad Philips explains how to be a better interviewer. Staples finds that new technology and furniture are high on employee wish lists (surprise!). This might be the strangest question ever asked on a workplace ethics quiz.
Finance: A Bulletproof Budget
Starbucks starts a $5 millionsmall-business loan program. Paynet reports a jump in small-business borrowing. With little fanfare, a lending program begun by the Treasury Department came to a close last week. KC Ifeanyi offers a few steps to build a bulletproof budget. Younggogetter's Justin explains how to save moneyon wireless.
Ideas and Opportunities: Renewable Resources
Google goes into the beer business. Researchers at the University of Wisconsin-Madison have come up with a way to produce electricity from just about the most renewable resource known to man - his own breath. A welfare mom creates a million-dollar business.Consultants are thriving as businesses struggle to survive. A new pill promises to eradicate gray hair. Cassette tapes mount a comeback. And a few of this blog's readers appear on Saturday Night Live.
Marketing: More Clicks, Better Places
Rhonda Abrams suggests 10 ways to make deal sites workfor small businesses. Scott Harvey offers advice for getting more clicks on Google Places. A guy in Texas really wants his post to be likedon FaceBook. A 20-part online marketing courseis offered free. Chris Charlton explains how to measuree-mail effectiveness. Hallmark introduces a new card recognition programfor businesses. Mary Rosenbaum suggests six easy ways to show customer appreciation, like: "Create an honor roll on your site or on Twitter thanking and recognizing clients and customers that have helped you get to where you are today. Adding their title or company or something personal about each customer would make it even more about them."
The Week Ahead: My Special Day
Monday, markets are closed, but on Friday we'll find out how consumers are feeling with retail sales and consumer sentiment data. Me? I'm heading to one of the Blue Plate restaurants in the Twin Cities on Friday to celebrate my special day.
The Week's Bests
Tips for managing cash. Suzanne Kearns offers three tips for a tough economy, including: "Stay on top of projections. Many small-business owners don't enjoy preparing cash-flow projections, but in tough economic times, they can be key to survival. Try to be as precise as possible in your projections - and do them as often as monthly or weekly (as opposed to occasionally, which you may be able to get away with under other circumstances)."
Measuring your advertising. Howie Jacobson explains how to test your advertisingquickly, cheaply, and effectively. In 2009, a consultant for a division of Mars Inc. "ran keyword tests to discover the most searched-for ingredients in this product line. Through ad testing, he found 'free shipping' generated nearly twice the sales of the original '30 percent off' offer (specifics have been changed for confidentiality reasons). Within about a month of reporting his AdWords tests," the consultant "saw a virtually identical product description, price and offer on Mars's national TV commercials. Now a miniscule AdWords investment was paying huge dividends in other media. Mars no longer had to depend on the creative impulses of expensive Madison Avenue ad writers. They just applied common sense to AdWords data and cloned tiny successes on a massive scale."
Making your e-mails stand out. Karen Talavera offers three tried and true e-mail creative tactics for instant visibilityin a crowded in-box, like: "Less is so much more. Too many marketing e-mails err on the side of needing more 'white space' in their designs. Don't feel compelled to fill every pixel with color or content. Give your readers' eyes a rest, and remember that a few bold elements can draw curiosity (and are more visible) than many detailed ones."
Question of the Week: How effective is your e-mail marketing?
Correction: A previous version of this post misspelled the name of Howie Jacobson.
Marks GroupTwitter

        
This Week in Small Business: America for Sale!
        
This Week in Small Business: Twisting Our Wealth Away
        
This Week in Small Business: Spending More on Gas but Still Stalled
        
This Week in Small Business: Uncompetitive but Very Cool
        
This Week in Small Business: A Lot of Paper Clips

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); RECESSION (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); NEW ORDERS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); EMAIL MARKETING (68%); RETAILERS (66%); CITY LIFE (64%); PERSONAL DEBT (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Wall Street (NYC); Dashboard

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wall Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



447 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Post-Storm Foliage Deals in New England

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Post-storm foliage deals in New England, triggers for a mortgage rejection, regulators crack down on high-speed stock trading and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:
Regulators crack down on high-speed stock trading. (Business)Post-Irene, fall foliage deals abound in New England. (Travel)Triggers for a mortgage rejection. (Business)Panel's advice on prostate test stirs protest. (National)Small towns fear post office closings. (Business)Senator protests removal of online doctor data. (Prescriptions)U.S. incomes fell even after recession ended. (National)Change in store for Motherlode blog. (Motherlode)Should college tours include keg parties? (The Choice) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); CLOSINGS (84%); PROSTATE DISEASE (55%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



448 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: 1930 Model A Ford Wraps a Year on the Road

BYLINE: MARY M. CHAPMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The 1930 Tudor sedan and its owner were celebrated at the collector car show and auctions in Hershey, Penn., last weekend. 

 BODY:
After a year of happy rumbling in a 1930 Model A Ford, Jonathan Klinger knew that his return to automotive modernity would be an adjustment.
He never cheated in his pledge to stick for a year with the Ford, except for the occasional business trip when he rented a car. On the first such occasion, last March at Jacksonville International Airport, he rented a 4-cylinder Chevrolet Malibu, whose performance he found overwhelming.
"That was the first time I'd been on the Interstate in quite some time and was in a car that is not normally thought of as a powerhouse," Mr. Klinger said in an interview. "Yet it felt to me like I was driving an F1 car. If anything, my experience might make me appreciate newer cars, although they lack the character and personality that old cars have."
Such brushes with modernity did not subtract from his attachment to the Model A Tudor sedan, bought last summer for $11,000, and in which he logged 16,000 miles since last fall. The blue car, with big running boards, smallish side windows and straw-yellow wheels has definitely grown on Mr. Klinger, who stored his 1993 Honda Accord and 1999 Ford Explorer before embarking on his attempt.
The idea for the yearlong endeavor, which officially ends Thursday, came about nearly two years ago during a discussion with his boss.
"I just thought that these cars need to be on the road, not just in museums and garages," said Mr. Klinger, the public relations manager for Hagerty, a company based in Traverse City, Mich., that specializes in insuring collectors' cars.
Mr. Klinger, who recently turned 30, always favored older cars, he said. He restored a 1919 Model T Ford pickup that came to him in parts and owns a 1941 Ford Super DeLuxe and a 1964 Buick Electra 225.
His blog, 365daysofa.com, averaged 20,000 monthly hits, he said, far exceeding expectations. "It was a neat combination of people telling stories, sharing memories or giving technical advice," he said. "It turned into this whole community of people enjoying this nostalgic throwback."
His posts candidly related the adventure's highs and lows, including the one time he was 700 miles late lubricating distributor parts, which resulted in screeching noises, and when his "ah-hoogah" horn sounded like a "sick goose," a condition that was remedied with a simple adjustment. He also recalled the day when a right rear tire was momentarily stuck during a snowstorm that dumped 18 inches, and the two occasions when he called a tow truck after the Model A fell victim to electrical gremlins, which were promptly worked out.
"Old cars do require more maintenance than newer cars, but there's a saying that if you take care of it, it'll take care of you," he said. "You start neglecting it, it'll let you know."
Consequently, when he changed the oil every 1,000 miles, he also greased everything and performed a general inspection of critical systems, like the brakes. Over time, Mr. Klinger added new steering-wheel king pins, an anti-drag kit, an exhaust heater manifold and a new glass shifter knob, and repaired broken rear shock mounts.
Because the original engine, a 4-cyinder water-cooled power plant that made 40 horsepower, developed a cracked block, Mr. Klinger somewhat grudgingly replaced it with a short-block engine, cannibalizing parts from the old unit, like the water pump, when needed.
"I wanted to finish with all the original equipment, but what can you do," he said.
A Mitchell overdrive was recently added as well, improving speed and fuel economy and adding another gear between two and three. "A lot of people asked me why I waited until the end," he said. "Well, I wanted the car to be representative of what it would be like to drive it new 81 years ago, when overdrive wasn't around."
Aside from the 18-inch blizzard, Mr. Klinger said the weather did not significantly affect the Model A, which was slow to stop but tracked well in snow. The car immediately started one morning after a night in subzero temperatures.
"Most cars before 1955 had one-half the electrical voltage of today's 12-volt systems," he noted. "Because 12 volts crank up faster, people think I've converted. But I've proven that what I have is doable."
Indeed, there were times during the summer when a slightly overwarmed engine would cause Mr. Klinger to reduce his high cruising speed of about 50 miles per hour to avoid radiator boil-overs. "The car never got that hot, but I sure did -- no A.C. So, I wore a lot of T-shirts and carried plenty of water," he said.
Mr. Klinger took a few long trips in the Model A, including a 270-mile trek in January from Traverse City to Detroit for the auto show there, returning the car to its birthplace. He also drove to Ludington, Mich., and crossed Lake Michigan on the venerable S.S. Badger steam ferry to Manitowac, Wisc.
Mr. Klinger's admittedly emotional last-trip hurrah began on Oct. 2, as he set off for the 800-mile ride to Hershey, Penn., and its vaunted car show and auctions. He turned 30 during the events and was feted during the festivities.
"Other than about 10 miles I took all back roads, just really the way a road trip should be done in an old car," he said, adding that he eschewed fast-foot restaurants in route for mop-and-pop lunch counters.
"The car performed flawlessly, not even a hiccup," he said of the drive. "Of course, when it rains, the windshield is flat and I just have this little wiper, which I affectionately call a swiper, since it just kind of schmears the rain around. But the whole trip was so much fun."
Pangs of guilt and wistfulness visited him while loading the car into a trailer for its Michigan return; he was scheduled to fly back. Mr. Klinger expects to discontinue blogging, but plans to drive the car until "the first salted roads."
"This time last year, the weekend before I would start, I'd driven to a pal's wedding in my Ford Explorer, cruise and climate set, listening to XM Radio and wondering what I'd gotten myself into," he said.
"And now, I'd do it all over again. In a heartbeat."

        
1884 De Dion-Bouton Sells at Hershey for $4.62 Million
        
In Ford Materials, a Veritable Salad Bar
        
Wheelies: The Six-Gun-Salute Edition
        
RelayRides Gets a Lift From G.M.'s OnStar
        
Ford Mulling E.V.'s and Lincolns for China

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); SEDANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FORMULA ONE RACING (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); AIRPORTS (56%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Ford; Hagerty; Hershey; Model A; Automobiles; Collectors and Collections; Road Trips; Ford Motor Co; Traverse City (Mich); Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; Collectible Cars; Motoring

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%) Traverse City (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



449 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: The Incredible Good Luck of 'Breaking Bad'

BYLINE: ADAM STERNBERGH


HIGHLIGHT: "Breaking Bad," which just ended its fourth season on Sunday, had its premiere on Jan. 20, 2008. It started with a straightforward premise: A mild-mannered chemistry teacher named Walter White finds out he has cancer, and so he decides, in order to build up a fortune to leave to his family, to start cooking meth. 

 BODY:
''Breaking Bad,'' which just ended its fourth season on Sunday, had its premiere on Jan. 20, 2008. It started with a straightforward and rather narrow premise: A mild-mannered chemistry teacher named Walter White finds out he has cancer, and so he decides, in order to build up a fortune to leave to his family, to start cooking meth.
As David Segal detailed in his profile of the show's creator, Vince Gilligan, in July, the loose idea for the series has always been to chronicle Walt's gradual transformation from law-abiding family man to sociopathic criminal mastermind. Faithful viewers of the show were treated to a significant and satisfying leap forward in that transformation during the Season 4 finale.
What's striking, though, is the extent to which the series has broadened to become more than the tale of one man's moral decomposition. No matter how the series resolves - it will wrap up next year with an extended 16-episode season - it will one day stand as, among other things, a remarkably canny metaphorical portrait of a bleak period of American decay.
The central character is an average man driven by extreme circumstances (including, not insignificantly, onerous medical bills) toward immoral and illegal behavior. Over time, the allure of immorality and the increasing power it brings begin to consume him. Walt is a teacher, - but by this point in the series he can easily be seen as a stand-in for any of the villains of the crash, like Richard Fuld and Bernie Madoff; basically, anyone who allows the temptation to be a kingpin overwhelm and ultimately demolish his moral compass.
In fact, each of the main characters fits easily into a crudely symbolic reading along these lines: Jesse as the promising but confused and compromised next generation; Hank as the persistent but crippled lawman; Gus Fring as the coldly rational tycoon with little concern for human life. Add to this the show's gleeful embrace of absurdity, its fascination with apocalyptic gore (''Zombie Gus'' is already a mini-meme) and the fact that the setting of ''Breaking Bad'' - the sun-baked suburbs of Albuquerque - consistently calls to mind exactly the kind of barren, post-housing-boom developments we're constantly seeing abandoned and left to rot.
Given all that, it's remarkable that the show had its debut before - or, at least, during the very primary stages of - the global financial meltdown. (Lehman Brothers didn't file for bankruptcy until September 2008.) You'd have to imagine that if somehow history had played out differently, and less catastrophically, over the last four years, we'd have either a very different show or one with a significantly different impact.
All of which is to say that what Vince Gilligan and his collaborators are creating is not just high-grade entertainment but also a potent cultural response to the current American moment; a response that can now be plausibly placed alongside, for example, ''The Godfather'' - another pulp opera with grander symbolic resonance about the corrosion of American life. And, in the case of ''Breaking Bad,'' it's a story that, perhaps through simple good luck, came along at exactly the moment it needed to be told.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (84%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); METHAMPHETAMINE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%) breaking bad; TV; Gilligan, Vince; White, Walter; Finances; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (50%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%) Gilligan, Vince; White, Walter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



450 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Your Economic Outlook: Mixed Up

BYLINE: DANIEL MCDERMON


HIGHLIGHT: On the whole, contributors to an interactive project about the economic outlook seemed slightly more hopeful about their own prospects than about the overall economy. 

 BODY:
Contradictory data are nothing new in economics, but amid the slump in the United States and Europe, readers may find themselves paying increasing attention to indicators that seem to point every which way.
Corporate earnings in the United States grew in 2011 - but that growth has slowed. Household income has fallen farther since the recession officially ended in June 2009 than it did during the recession itself. The American economy gained 103,000 new jobs in September, according to figures released Friday, but unemployment remained high at 9.1 percent. And of course, all this information is available through more and more channels, media, devices and platforms.
With this in mind, The Times last week presented an interactive feature, "What's Your Economic Outlook?" We asked readers to express their views on four topics: their job status, their future spending plans, job prospects for the next generation and the state of the economy next year. Participants were asked to choose from a list of words to summarize their view, and to explain in a few words.
More than 5,600 completed submissions, and the results show a broad range of results. Some of the results were unsurprising: people who described themselves as unemployed were mostly more pessimistic than people with jobs. But the distinctions between groups were suggestive: respondents in their 60s seemed a bit more pessimistic about the next generation than did respondents in their 20s.
Even more notable, perhaps, were the comments that readers left to explain their views. Readers who seemed most optimistic often explained themselves with reference to plans they were following or had made. One wrote:
We scaled back our lifestyle years before the downturn, so this recession hasn't affected us like people who are in debt.
Another:
We have budgeted well for upcoming expenses and I feel comfortable with our income streams.
Many comments from readers with a negative outlook described dire circumstances, and more than a few sounded a note of desperation:
Seven people used to do my job. Now there are only two of us. Nobody cares. Drowning.
And:
I have no money. Barely buying food. No help available for single men.
Many younger contributors saw their own opportunities as narrowing, with high levels of debt and few well-paying jobs:
Because previous generations have left my generation with crushing burdens and almost no safety net.
And:
There is nothing left for the next generation, only a small percentage will see the success of previous generations.
A few young contributors sounded an exuberant note about potential development:
There are so many incredible opportunities arising in new fields.
And:
Because my generation was raised to be innovative, and we will find a way to improve the current landscape.
In what could be interpreted as a sign of optimism, on the whole, contributors seemed to be slightly more hopeful about their own prospects - for work and for spending - than for the economy as a whole or for the next generation. That view jibes with some recent statistical evidence, suggesting that the disparity in outlooks reflects sentiments just as mixed as the other economic signals.
The full interactive feature will remain online.

        
A Sour Economy
        
Consumers Feel Better, Except . . .
        
A New High for Bush
        
From Pessimistic (Consumers) to Optimistic (Lenders)
        
Fear and Loathing Among Consumers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); RECESSION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); JOB CREATION (76%) consumer sentiment; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



451 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: About That 99 Percent ...

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A look at how much American households at the 99th percentile earn and how much they are worth. 

 BODY:
6:18 p.m. | Updated to correct reference to 99th percentile of wealth.
I received an e-mail over the weekend from a reader asking for some statistical context for the Occupy Wall Street protesters' "99 Percent" rallying cry. Who exactly are the people in the top 1 percent of the economy? How much do they make, and how much are they worth?
Here are some numbers:
American households right at the 99th percentile (that is, the cut-off for the top 1 percent) will earn about $506,553 in cash income this year, according to a Tax Policy Center analysis. The income curve is very steep at the high end, meaning that people just a few tenths of a percentile point above that make much, much more. A family at the 99.5th percentile, for example, makes $815,868; its neighbor at the 99.9th percentile makes more than double that, at $2,075,574 a year.
The top 1 percent of American earners receive about a fifth of the country's income, according to Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, two economists who study inequality.
But as we've notedbefore, economic inequality isn't just about what you make each year. It's about how much wealth you have already accumulated, too. And inequality is far, far greater when you include wealth.
According to an analysis of Federal Reserve data by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, the top 1 percent of Americans by net worth hold about a third of American wealth.
The average net worth for the 99th percentile in net worth was $19,167,600 as of 2007, based on this research. The average net worth of the next 9 percent of Americans was $2,371,500. 
That means, of course, that the bottom 99 percent of Americans includes an awful lot of millionaires.
An earlier version of this post referred incorrectly to the relative standing in 2007 of an individual with a net worth of $19,167,600. That is the average net worth -- not the cutoff -- for the 99th percentile. 

        
Inequality Is Most Extreme in Wealth, Not Income
        
Where Do You Fall on the Income Curve?
        
Everyone Is 'Middle Class,' Right?
        
Rich People Still Don't Realize They're Rich
        
Inequality Rising Across the Developed World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%) distribution of wealth; Economic Policy Institute; high-income; Income Inequality; inequality; net worth; Occupy Wall Street; wealth; Economic Conditions and Trends; Income; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%) Occupy Wall Street

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



452 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Report Sees Tight Global Cereal Markets

BYLINE: JOANNA M. FOSTER


HIGHLIGHT: While a dip in prices is potentially good news for the developing world, a grain expert says that tough economic times really only guarantee uncertainty for food security. 

 BODY:
For some Americans, fall is traditionally a season of celebrating the harvest and anticipating a groaning Thanksgiving table. Globally, it's also the time of year for some important reports on cereal markets and food security. 
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization just published a quarterly assessment titled "Crop Prospects and Food Situation." It predicts that world cereal markets will stay tight in 2011-12 despite some better-than-expected recent predictions for wheat and rice. Those crops are expected to boost global cereal production modestly, to 2.31 billion tons.
Demand for cereals is predicted to increase only slightly -- by 1.3 percent, to 2.302 billion tons -- in 2011-12. After record high prices earlier in the year kindled fears of food riots, cereal prices are forecast to continue a decline that began in April. 
Abdolreza Abbassian, a grains analyst for the F.A.O., linked the anticipated decline to the sluggish pace of the global economy and fears of a second recession.

While falling prices are potentially good news for the developing world, Mr. Abbassian said that tough economic times really only guarantee uncertainty in the food security situation. 
The report also identified 32 countries around the world in need of foreign food aid, in large part because of abnormal precipitation patterns. A deadly drought in much of East Africa and irregular rains in West Africa have left tens of millions without enough to eat. 
While East Asia is looking forward to a bumper cereal harvest, severe flooding from this summer's monsoon season in Bangladesh, North Korea, India, Laos, Pakistan, Thailand and the Philippines may cut sharply into the anticipated bounty, the study indicated. 
The report also draws special attention to the deteriorating situation in Somalia, which has been hardest hit by East Africa's prolonged drought and is riven by political instability. Currently four million Somalis are suffering from food shortages. 
Famine conditions, already widespread throughout the south, are predicted to spread in the next few months, possibly claiming up to 750,000 lives. In scale and severity, the F.A.O. said, Somalia's is the most serious food crisis in the world today. 
The United Nations has appealed for $1 billion to fight the famine but so far has collected only 62 percent of the amount.
In response to a recent request from the Group of 20 agriculture ministers to tackle the global problem of food price volatility, the F.A.O. will publish a Food Outlook report next month that will for the first time draw on data from a newly created Agricultural Market information System. 
An international central database of food production and price information, the system is designed to increase market transparency. 

        
Tracking the Global Food Situation
        
The Global Food Crisis, Mapped
        
New Push on Sustainable Agriculture
        
F.A.O. Sees Stubbornly High Food Prices
        
Drought Imperils China's Wheat Crop

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); DROUGHT (89%); FAMINE (89%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); RECESSION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GRAIN FARMING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); FLOODS & FLOODING (65%); RIOTS (54%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%) cereal prices; Commodities; Famine; Food and Agriculture Organization; food shortages; Rice; Wheat; Agriculture and Farming; Cereals; Food; Food Aid; Foreign Aid; Grain; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; Group of Twenty; United Nations; Somalia; Agriculture; Business; climate change; Politics and Policy; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%) Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; Group of Twenty; United Nations

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMALIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (74%) Somalia

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



453 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Banks Help Hedge Funds Recruit

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: In an effort to secure lucrative brokerage and trading business, big banks like Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America have become powerful recruiting forces for their biggest hedge fund clients. 

 BODY:
Wall Street banks often boast that they hire the best and the brightest. Now, scrambling to bolster profits, they have become full-time headhunters for some of their biggest hedge fund clients, a role that is rife with potential conflicts.
Big banks have long provided extra benefits to hedge funds, including finding office space for firms and raising money for new portfolios. They have even acted like informal recruiters for their premier clients by passing along resumes or making introductions to industry professionals.
 But those once-ancillary placement services have become established practices as Wall Street struggles to make up for profit centers that have been lost to new regulations and a weak economy. Since the financial crisis, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America and others have become powerful recruiting forces for hedge funds. In an effort to secure lucrative brokerage and trading business, the banks scout finance executives, accountants and receptionists free. Goldman calls the practice "talent introduction."
Without the necessary disclosures and appropriate restrictions, the staffing services could prove controversial.
For one, Wall Street firms risk provoking the ire of a client if they poach hedge fund talent or compete for the same potential employees. It also raises a question of loyalty; hedge fund executives may be swayed to direct business to the Wall Street firm that hired them rather than the bank that makes the best sense for investors.
"We get put in this situation every day," said Stuart Hendel, global head of prime brokerage at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which offers recruiting as part of its hedge fund services. The banks, he said, have "to walk a tight rope."
Banks say they have strict rules to prevent conflicts. Bank of America says it will not poach active employees of a current client.
"All we're doing is providing a clearinghouse for managers to meet prospective employees," Mr. Hendel said. "We don't go looking for people, people seem to find us. And we make it very clear we're not providing recommendations."
Goldman said it disclosed its consulting services to clients and had "robust policies and procedures" to prevent conflicts of interest. "We are not in the headhunting business," a spokeswoman for the firm, Andrea Raphael, said. "We do not solicit employees of one client to work at another client."
Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley declined to comment.
The practice renews concerns about how hedge funds indirectly pay for such secondary services. Government regulators have cracked down on these "soft dollar" arrangements - where a money manager steers business to a bank in exchange for perks. The deals can come at the expense of investors, who may be unaware of the relationship.
Several years ago, Massachusetts's chief financial regulator, William Galvin, took aim at so-called hedge fund hotels. At the time, Wall Street firms provided office space to up-and-coming money managers at below market rates in return for their trading business. As part of a settlement with UBS, investment advisers that leased real estate from the bank in the state had to provide written disclosure to current and prospective clients about the arrangement.
It is unclear if hedge funds report their use of Wall Street staffing services. Mr. Galvin said that the money managers should disclose the value of the services they receive from big banks and the employees placed by banks.
"It's the type of relationship investors should know about, or simply shouldn't exist," Mr. Galvin said.
As the industry has grown in size and stature, hedge funds have become an increasingly important source of revenue for Wall Street banks. Hedge funds, for example, account for an estimated 35 percent of trading commissions, according to Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
To distinguish themselves in the highly competitive business, banks - which provide credit and execute transactions for the big investors through their prime brokerage and trading divisions - have built out their suite of services.
Recruiting was a natural extension. Wall Street firms, through their prime brokerage units, are involved in the daily operations of thousands of hedge funds, giving them a good sense of the industry turnover.
After acting as informal recruiters for years, many banks formalized the process in recent years. The Wall Street firms have created rich databases that track hedge fund openings and potential candidates, with a small staff dedicated to the service.
It is appealing for hedge funds. Traditional recruiters take as much as 25 percent of the hire's first-year compensation. But Wall Street doesn't charge anything. Richard Scardina, co-founder of the Atlantic Group, a professional search firm, said the banks were his biggest rivals.
"It's competition, but they are not going to put me out of business," he said. "We specialize in recruitment day in and day out, and that is an edge that is hard to compete with."
Mostly, the banks' staffing efforts focus on back-office and accounting functions, although the banks occasionally place investment professionals and research analysts. Glazer Capital Management, a New York-based hedge fund with roughly $500 million, recently tapped Goldman to hire a staff member in its accounting division, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
The potential landmines for banks are significant. The majority of people in Goldman's database are out of work, according to executives at three hedge funds who have used the service. But the list, the people said, does include a small number of hedge fund employees looking to leave their jobs, because they're unhappy or are looking to move to another part of the world.
In such instances, banks could run the risk of poaching staff from their hedge fund clients, said Dick Del Bello, a senior partner at Conifer Securities, a independent firm that provides administrative support to hedge funds. "The one thing they have to be careful of is, you don't want to raid the henhouse," he said. "You don't want to go to client A and take someone actively there and send them to client B."
The practice could also have unwanted consequences for hedge funds. If the Wall Street bank knows a top executive wants to leave a firm, the departure could raise red flags about the health of the hedge fund, Mr. Del Bello said. The bank, in response, might decide to withdraw the fund's credit, potentially forcing it to sell assets.
Ms. Raphael of Goldman said that if the firm discovered something material, it "would discuss the matter and its implications with the client."
To Mr. Galvin, it comes down to disclosure. "If you are an investor, you want to know the manager is acting in your interest without an ulterior motive."

        
Cuomo and the Broad Power of the Martin Act
        
As Irene Approaches, Banks Prepare for the Worst

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); ACCOUNTING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) Atlantic Group; Bank of America; Bank of America-Merrill Lynch; Conifer Securities; Deutsche Bank; Glazer Capital Management; Goldman Sachs; Morgan Stanley; Richard Scardina; Stuart Hendel; UBS; William Galvin; Banking and Financial Institutions; Conflicts of Interest; Hedge Funds; Hiring and Promotion; Bank of America Corporation; Deutsche Bank AG; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Deutsche Bank AG; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (56%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



454 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The San Francisco Chronicle: Gov. Jerry Brown signed a law banning the possession, sale and distribution of imported shark fins starting in 2013.The state had previously banned cutting fins off sharks in California waters. -- Nick Fox
Decanter: Over several decades of covering wines, Andrew Jefford has found a distinct improvement in the respect paid to vineyard dirt. -- Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: A peek inside an all-male Basque cooking club in Bilbao. - Jeff Gordinier 
The Apple Lover's Cookbook: Going apple-picking today? This recipe for apple bread-and-butter pickles has crunch and visual appeal. -- Julia Moskin
QSR: Ten lessons the restaurant industry can learn from Steve Jobs. Number One, the humble nitty-gritty customer/user experience is more important than anything else. -- Glenn Collins
Eater: Talia Baiocchi decodes the idiosyncratic wine list at the unconventional Brooklyn steakhouse St. Anselm. -- Eric Asimov
The New York Post: Neighbors are fuming over the incessantly idling limos outside Babbo. -- Nick Fox
A Los Angeles Food Blogger: A smart, detailed review of a meal at Red Medicine, a forward-thinking Los Angeles restaurant that has stumped critics and diners alike. -- Julia Moskin
Forbes: Some restaurants (Andrei's Restaurant, Aureole, Blue Parrot) and the billionaires who own them. -- Glenn Collins
Travel and Leisure: Peter Jon Lindberg journeys to the Thai island of Ko Samui. His favorite dish, he writes, is "khoei jii, a most ingenious local snack, made by pressing shrimp paste, crab meat, coconut, garlic, shallots, and chili into a thick savory-sweet spread, smearing it inside a dried coconut husk, then roasting said husk over a flame." - Jeff Gordinier 
Chef Mateo: A nettlesome array of fees, commissions and other costs plague small restaurant owners like my friend Rafael Mateo at Pata Negra, his Spanish wine and ham bar. -- Eric Asimov
Wine Anorak: A Loire winemaker's play on words gets him in deep trouble with the authorities. -- Eric Asimov
The New York Times: When the economy collapsed and her money ran out, Susan Gregory Thomas took the backyard-locavore route in Brooklyn for a simple reason: she had to. - Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Times: Refugee agriculture is an entrepreneurial movement spreading across the country. -- Nick Fox
Crain's New York Business: Farmers try to take advantage as the city's education department prepares to press food vendors to provide more local food. -- Nick Fox
The Wall Street Journal: Since September, when some newly harvested Japanese rice crops showed high levels of radiation, Japanese consumers have been scrambling to get their hands on the remaining 2010 stocks. -- Julia Moskin
The Wall Street Journal: Want to drink wine with Bryan Ferry? You might need to take out a loan first. - Jeff Gordinier 
Poetry Foundation: In the life of a farmer, W.D. Ehrhart writes in this poem, "everything needs to be done." - Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); APPLE ORCHARDS (75%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); WINERIES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); RICE FARMING (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (73%); STEVEN JOBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



455 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Superior Energy to Acquire Complete for $2.7 Billion

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: With the sector under pressure, Superior Energy Services agreed to buy a rival, Complete Production Services, for about $2.7 billion. 

 BODY:
Superior Energy Services, an oil field services company based in New Orleans, agreed to buy a rival, Complete Production Services, for about $2.7 billion.
Under the terms of the agreement, investors in Complete, based in Houston, will receive 0.945 of Superior common stock and $7 in cash. That is about 29 percent above Complete's two-month average stock price.
"The combination of Superior and Complete creates a top-tier diversified oil field services company with the products, technologies and talented people that are critical to helping our customers create value, particularly in unconventional fields in North America," David Dunlap, Superior's chief executive, said in a statement. "Together we will have enhanced positions in large sectors for key products and services that are high in usage intensity and deemed critical by our customers during their drilling, completion and production process."
The deal comes as declining oil prices and concern over the global economy have put pressure on energy-related stocks. Shares of Superior have dropped to a recent $27.41 from $43 in August. Complete has fallen even further, and is off 50 percent in the same time period.
The takeover is expected to be completed by the end of the year, with Superior's shareholders owning about 52 percent of the merged business. 
Greenhill and JPMorgan advised Superior on the acquisition, while Jones, Walker, Waechter, Poitevent, Carrere & Denegre served as legal counsel. Complete worked with Credit Suisse Securities and Latham & Watkins acted as legal counsel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); LAWYERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Complete Production Services; Superior Energy; Energy; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JONES WALKER WAECHTER POITEVENT CARRERE & DENEGRE LLP (92%); SUPERIOR ENERGY SERVICES INC (90%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: SPN (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (90%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (90%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



456 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Further Reading on the Nobel Economics Laureates

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Links to interviews, resumes and papers related to Christopher Sims and Thomas Sargent, the winners of the 2011 Nobel in economics. 

 BODY:
The spotlight today is on Christopher A. Sims of Princeton University and Thomas J. Sargent of New York University, the winners of the Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel.
The two new laureates have very similar academic pedigrees: They both received their Ph.D.'s from Harvard in 1968, and both previously studied at the University of California, Berkeley. Several years later they both landed at the University of Minnesota. They are currently jointly teaching a graduate course in macroeconomics at Princeton.
The prize committee has published a description of their work for the general public, as well as a more technical version.
Here is the only paper the two wrote together, from 1977.
Some other links for Dr. Sargent:

        
Dr. Sargent's home page, and his curriculum vitae.
        
A summaryof his contributions, written by Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University.
        
Some of his older papers; some of his newer papers.
        
An interviewhe did with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis in 2010.
        
Another interviewwith the journal Macroeconomic Dynamics, in 2005.
        
A (short) graduation speech he delivered on the University of California, Berkeley, about a few key economic principles.
        
A Q.&A. a representative of the Nobel committee (named Adam Smith, of course) conducted with Dr. Sargent.
        
Video of a lecture Dr. Sargent gave at the London School of Economics in 2010, titled "Uncertainty and Ambiguity in American Fiscal and Monetary Policies."
And some links for Dr. Sims:

        
His home page, and his curriculum vitae.
        
Another summaryof contributions from Tyler Cowen.
        
Links to his research papers.
        
An interviewhe did with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis in 2007.
        
An interviewwith The Journal of Business and Economics Statistics, from 2002.
        
An interviewwith the journal Macroeconomic Dynamics, in 2003 (subscription required).
        
An interviewwith a representative of the Nobel committee (Adam Smith).
        
A video of a lecture from an Institute for New Economic Thinking conference in 2010. The lecture is titled "How Empirical Evidence Does or Does Not Influence Economic Thinking and Theory: Calibration, Statistical Inference and Structural Change."
        
One of his more famous papers on the statistical technique he developed to study the larger economy. (Warning: this is pretty technical.)

        
Poker as a Game of Skill
        
The Work Behind the Nobel Prize
        
What We're Reading: Forced Savings and Fed Debates
        
What We're Reading: The New York Recession
        
M.I.T. Economist Wins John Bates Clark Medal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (95%); NOBEL PRIZES (93%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (68%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (66%) Christopher A. Sims; Nobel Prize; Thomas Miles; Sargent, Thomas J; Economics; Nobel Prizes; Sims, Christopher A.

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (55%) Sargent, Thomas J

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



457 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: A New Generation of Dissenters

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Agree with the Occupy Wall Street demonstrators or not, they are denouncing the recklessness of the financial titans who brought the economy to its knees. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs. 

 BODY:
If the Occupy Wall Street protesters ever choose to recognize a person who gave their cause its biggest boost, they may want to pay tribute to Anthony Bologna.
 Deputy Inspector Bologna, to be more precise, was the senior New York police officer who on Sept. 24 blasted pepper spray at four female demonstrators, knocking them to the sidewalk in pain. An oft-viewed video of that moment offers no evidence of their having posed a threat or doing anything more sinister than shouting. 
 That pepper shot in the face was a vital shot in the arm for the nascent anti-Wall Street movement. 
 Its takeover of Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan had begun a week earlier, drawing some attention but not a lot - for a reason. Despite the belief of many protesters in their own uniqueness, this is a city inured to countless demonstrations held over a good many decades. 
 Inspector Bologna's improvidence was a game changer. 
 On the weekend of Sept. 24, Zuccotti Park occupiers could be counted in the many dozens. This Sunday, on a flawless early autumn afternoon, they were in the many hundreds, even discounting all the tourists taking in the show. News coverage has expanded geometrically in recent days, and the "occupy" movement has spread rapidly to other cities. 
 So while Inspector Bologna's bad air day is said to be under department investigation, the demonstrators owe a great deal to him. 
 Their demands remain diffuse, to the irritation of some sideline hecklers in the press and on television. At some point, a clear statement of goals will probably be required. But right now, an inchoate cry that the country is being failed by its financial structure seems to be enough for the movement to sustain itself. 
 It must be said about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg that, though he dislikes the protests and has hinted that the park occupation may have to end, he has not converted words into action. By now, his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had a tenuous grasp of the First Amendment's guaranteed right of peaceable assembly, would have probably ordered the police to clear the area - with water cannon, if necessary. 
 Comparisons have been made with protests during the Vietnam War era. This is a boon for refugees from the 1960s, if only because they have a chance to hear bursts of terrific music once again. Buffalo Springfield has enjoyed something of a revival, what with frequent allusions to its landmark 1966 hit, "For What It's Worth." You know: "There's something happening here/What it is ain't exactly clear. ..." 
 Mr. Bloomberg seems somewhat haunted by that era, making several references to it in his comments about the Zuccotti Park crowd. He hasn't quite managed to get it right, though. 
 On his weekly radio show, he recalled antiwar demonstrations held long ago on Wall Street, with a suggestion that the targets back then were soldiers returning from Vietnam. Not so. The protests of that era weren't against the men who went into battle. They were against the political leadership that sent them to fight, and to die, in a war that few Americans understood and that most came over time to oppose. 
 In the same way, the mayor has missed the point about this new generation of dissenters. 
 Ten days ago, he said that in going after Wall Street, they were "protesting against people who make $40,000 and $50,000 a year and are struggling to make ends meet." 
That's not it at all. Agree with the demonstrators or not, they are denouncing the recklessness of the financial titans who brought the economy to its knees and who continue to thrive unrepentantly. Bank of America doesn't even mind how nakedly greedy it looks with its new plan to impose a $5 monthly charge on customers who want access to their own money via their debit cards.
 Many signs are held aloft at Zuccotti Park. On Sunday, one young man walked around carrying a cardboard placard that simply said, "Our economy could be more fair." 
 As a plan for action, it didn't amount to much. But it was hard to see how any sentient person could take exception to the message.
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
Paul McCartney married Nancy Shevell, a board member of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. [DNAinfo]
Columbia University is looking for millions to expand its engineering facilities into Manhattanville. [Columbia Spectator] 
A police officer saved his life by blocking a gun with his ring finger. [Daily News and The New York Times] 
Occupy Wall Street calls itself "leaderless," but leadership has emerged. [Wall Street Journal] 
Ben & Jerry's, the ice cream giant, has endorsed Occupy Wall Street. [DNAinfo] 
Occupy Wall Street has spawned an art exhibit across the street from New York Stock Exchange. [CBS New York] 
The fate of some low-priced housing in Bushwick, Brooklyn, is uncertain because of a corruption scandal touching the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. [Daily News] 
A deputy inspector in the Police Department who was accused of sexually harassing a male sergeant is suing the sergeant for slander. [Daily News] 
An autistic 12-year-old boy was arrested after crashing a truck, the Nassau County police said. [Daily News] 
Young Manhattan chess prodigies will take on the world's best players. [DNAinfo] 
Italian-Americans were honored at a ceremony in Columbus Circle. [NY1] 
City Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer wants food vendors barred from taxi stands. [DNAinfo] 
A celebrity steakhouse brand is going to open three more restaurants in Manhattan. [New York Post] 
New Jersey Transit riders face another difficult commute. [CBS New York] 

        
Wall Street Protesters Broadcast Arrests on Social Media
        
Wall St. Protests Continue, With Arrests at Morning March
        
Financial District Protests Continue as 7 More Are Arrested
        
Wall Street Protest Begins, With Demonstrators Blocked
        
Wall Street Protest Visits Washington Sq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); RIOTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); REFUGEES (62%); VIETNAM WAR (60%) buzz; headlines; Lower Manhattan; Occupy Wall Street; protests; Wall Street; Bloomberg, Michael R; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Manhattan (NYC); Manhattan; Morning Buzz; Public Spaces; The Day

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



458 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Ohioans Want to Pry Space Shuttle From New York

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: A businessman believes a retired space shuttle bound for New York has a better and more readily available home in Ohio. 

 BODY:
Hundreds of Ohioans are asking President Obama to take a space shuttle away from New York City before it even arrives.
A petition posted on the White House's Web site by an Ohio businessman asks the president to revisit the decision made in April by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to give the shuttle Enterprise to the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum in Manhattan. As first reported by The New York Times, Intrepid museum executives now want to display the Enterprise, which was the prototype for the shuttles that flew in space, in a building to be constructed across the West Side Highway from the pier that was supposed to be its new home.
That change of plans reignited anger in communities like Houston and Seattle that had hoped to receive one of the orbiters when NASA ended the shuttle program this year. Ohio had pinned its hopes on the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton. 
But NASA awarded the three retired orbiters to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum in Virginia, and the California Science Center in Los Angeles. The Enterprise, which has been on display on at the National Air and Space Museum, is scheduled to be transported to New York City next year and to sit in a hanger at Kennedy Airport until the Intrepid is ready to display it.
Intrepid officials hope to build a museum annex on a parking lot near the aircraft carrier that serves as their museum. But obtaining the rights to that property from the state government, getting it rezoned for a museum and raising the money for the project could take years.
That possibility compounded the view of the Ohio businessman, John Cavanaugh, that the Air Force museum did not get a fair shot at a shuttle. After reading about the uncertainty of the Intrepid's plans, Mr. Cavanaugh, who owns a companyfirm in Columbus that provides diversity training for employers, turned to the new "We the People" petition section of the White House Web site.
His posting, created on Sept. 30, reads: "New York City is unprepared to house the Enterprise shuttle while the National Museum of the U.S.A.F. at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is the ideal location. Please help boost the Ohio economy!"
In an interview, Mr. Cavanaugh, 47, said he believed the Dayton area, where he once lived, not only deserved a shuttle, but it also needed one. "This is the kind of thing that would really help Ohio in general and Dayton in particular," he said, adding that he knew how hard it would be to persuade the president to reverse the choice of the Intrepid. "If this decision is going to be revisited, it's going to take thousands of people saying hey, wait a minute."
By the end of its first week, the petition had drawn almost 1,000 signers, each identified only by first name, last initial and hometown. Almost all were from Midwest, but at least one, Baruch K., was a New York City resident, calling for the Enterprise to boldly go where no shuttle has gone before: Ohio.

        
Space Shuttle to Land in Manhattan
        
20 Years Later, Artists Apply Healing Touch to Crown Heights
        
Mayor Praises Growth in Film and TV Jobs
        
A Tribute to Ads That Made an Impression and Then Wouldn't Leave
        
For Public Art, Taking the Crowds Into Consideration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ZONING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); AIRPORTS (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); HUMAN RESOURCES (61%) Cultural Affairs; Intrepid Museum; Space Shuttle; Museums; Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; National Air and Space Museum; United States Air Force; Dayton (Ohio); New York City; Ohio; Highlights

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (93%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); US AIR FORCE (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (55%) Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; National Air and Space Museum; United States Air Force

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DAYTON, OH, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Dayton (Ohio); New York City; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



459 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Says Protesters Can Stay On, if They Obey Laws

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR and THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg indicated that the city did not plan to remove the Occupy Wall Street protesters from Zuccotti Park and said of the duration of their stay, "Part of it has probably to do with the weather." 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, seemingly softening his language about the Occupy Wall Street protest, suggested on Monday that he did not anticipate an effort by the city to remove the demonstrators from a park in Lower Manhattan.
"The bottom line is, people want to express themselves, and as long as they obey the laws, we'll allow them to,'' the mayor told reporters at the start of the city's 67th annual Columbus Day parade. "If they break the laws, then we're going to do what we're supposed to do - enforce the laws."
Asked how long he expected the protesters to remain in Zuccotti Park, Mr. Bloomberg said: "I have no idea how much longer. I think part of it has probably to do with the weather."
The mayor's spokesman, Stu Loeser, said Mr. Bloomberg's comments did not mark a change in his posture toward the protest, which has been under way for more than three weeks. Indeed, the mayor has repeatedly spoken of the protests as an exercise of free speech. But on Friday, speaking in his weekly radio interview, he had been sharply critical of the protesters' message, saying, "What they're trying to do is take the jobs away from people working in this city." Asked then whether the protests had an end date, he simply said, "We'll see what happens.''
The protesters were cheered by what they perceived as Mr. Bloomberg's change in tone on Monday, sending a message from the official @OccupyWallStreet Twitter account declaring, "Bloomberg said we can stay indefinitely! Big win!"
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, speaking separately to reporters at the parade, said he had no intention of visiting the protests. But he said: "They have a right to protest; they have a right to their opinion. That's what makes a democracy work, and the frustration is felt all across this country."
Asked whether the protest, which is viewed by some residents of Lower Manhattan as disruptive, should be shut down, the governor said: "The right to protest and free speech is a big part of this democracy, and I'll leave that to the local officials. But I think the point of the frustration with the economy - not having jobs, not having opportunity - that is a sentiment that you hear not just on Wall Street, you'll hear it on Main Street all across this state and all across this nation."

        
Children Spend a Day at Protesters' Encampment
        
To Hail a Livery Cab in the Bronx, Go to Albany
        
Cuomo Vows to Broker Deal for Hailing Livery Cabs
        
Bloomberg Defends Livery Cab Proposal
        
Before 9/11 Ceremony, Back-Room Maneuvers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (79%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); GOVERNORS (68%) Andrew M. Cuomo; Columbus Day; Michael R. Bloomberg; Occupy Wall Street; Bloomberg, Michael R; Cuomo, Andrew M; Albany; City Hall

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); ANDREW CUOMO (87%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



460 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Calls for New Foreign Policy

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Jon M. Huntsman Jr. sought to draw distinctions with his Republican rivals by calling for the United States to expand its global engagement and abandon a cold war military mindset. 

 BODY:
HOOKSETT, N.H. - With a pledge to "erase the old map" and adopt a foreign policy to address modern threats, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. drew distinctions from his Republican rivals on Monday by calling for the United States to expand its global engagement and abandon a cold war military mindset.
"Simply advocating more ships, more troops and more weapons is not a viable path forward," Mr. Huntsman said. "We need more agility, more intelligence and more economic engagement with the world."
In a speech here at Southern New Hampshire University, Mr. Huntsman renewed his call for a quick end to the war in Afghanistan, declaring it was "cultural arrogance to think we can make tribal leaders into democratic leaders." He said a focus on counterterrorism should take priority over nation-building.
"We still have remnants of a top-heavy, post-cold war infrastructure," Mr. Huntsman said. "It needs to be transformed to reflect the 21st Century world and the growing asymmetric threats we face." 
Mr. Huntsman, a former Utah governor who served as ambassador to China in the Obama administration, delivered his foreign policy address on the eve of a Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire. In a campaign that has been dominated by an economic discussion, Mr. Huntsman is seeking to distinguish himself by promoting his foreign policy credentials, including serving two presidents as an ambassador and another in key trade posts.
"America once had a foreign policy based on containment - the containment of communism," Mr. Huntsman said. "Today, we need a foreign policy based on expansion - the expansion of America's competitiveness and engagement in the world through partnerships and trade agreements."
Mr. Huntsman delivered a mild critique of President Obama, saying that his polices had "diminished America's presence on the global stage." He did not mention any of his Republican rivals by name, but his speech sought to draw distinctions from remarks delivered last week in a foreign policy address by Mitt Romney, who called for reversing spending cuts in the Department of Defense and increasing investments in shipbuilding and missile defense programs. 
In a 30-minute address, followed by a question-and-answer session, Mr. Huntsman said that it was time to move beyond the "transactional" relationship that the United States has had for 40 years with China.
"We buy their products. They buy our bonds," Mr. Huntsman said. "But for a truly healthy relationship, we need to infuse the relationship with shared values."
He added: "There is no other relationship that, if mismanaged, carries greater negative consequences for America and the world."
Four months after entering the race, Mr. Huntsman has struggled to raise money and enter the top tier of candidates. Last month, he closed his national campaign headquarters in Florida to focus entirely on New Hampshire, which holds the first primary in the nation. 

        
Republican Candidates Start to Engage on Foreign Policy
        
Huntsman Questions U.S. Role in Afghanistan and Libya
        
Iowa Republicans Eye Jan. 3 for Caucuses
        
As Christie Passes, Romney Campaigns On
        
Candidates' Spouses Make Fund-Raising Push

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); TERRORISM (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) 2012 presidential campaign; foreign policy; Republicans; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Presidential Election of 2012; United States International Relations; Republican Party; New Hampshire; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



461 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Looking Back at the Values Summit

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from this weekend's Values Voter Summit, which exposed conflicts within the G.O.P.'s social conservative base. 

 BODY:
Representative Ron Paul of Texas won the straw poll at the Values Voter Summit in Washington over the weekend, not much of a surprise given his campaign's propensity to truck in supporters. Mitt Romney didn't do so hot in the unscientific poll, but the more ominous sign for his appeal to religious conservatives came from a new flare-up in the debate over the nature of his faith.
"Mormonism is a cult," Dr. Robert Jeffress, a Baptist pastor from Dallas, told reporters after introducing Gov. Rick Perry of Texas at the summit on Friday. "Mitt Romney is not a Christian." 
Does Mr. Perry agree, reporters asked?Response: "No."
Bryan Fischer, a conservative activist known for harsh words about Muslims, Mormons and gay people, spoke after Mr. Romney on Saturday and was thought to be talking about him when he said the next president had to be a man of "genuine Christian faith."
But, as Michael D. Shear, Erik Eckholm and Ashley Parker noted in their A1 piece on Sunday, "some evangelical leaders said they were less concerned about Mr. Romney's being a Mormon than about his stand on the issues."
And the Values Voter Summit proved a perfect forum for the candidates to attack Mr. Romney on that front. Mr. Perry highlighted his own consistent opposition to abortion rights (but did not bring up his more nuanced stance on immigration, saving that for a later appearance in Iowa). 
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota went after both Mr. Perry and Mr. Romney in her comments: "You won't find YouTube clips of me speaking in support of Roe v. Wade," she said. "You won't find me equivocating or hemming or hawing when I'm asked if marriage is between one man and one woman. You won't find me paying off big political donors with big political favors."
"People don't understand how moral issues are absolutely essential for the economic success of this country," said Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator, during his speech on Friday. Mr. Romney delivered a similar formulation on Saturday: "Now, the foundation needed for a strong economy and a strong military is a people of strong values."
During his speech on Friday, Herman Cain made the crowd swoon with blunt language: "My challenge to you is to stay informed, because we are up against a lot of stupid people in America who do not have a clue. That's why you have to be informed," he said. "Secondly, come to conferences like this."
Mr. Cain would later stand by a similarly blunt remark -- that the Occupy Wall Street protesters are "jealous" -- during an appearance on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday.

        
Santorum Calls Morality Crucial to Economic Success
        
Pawlenty's Attacks on Obama Delight Audience at Values Voter Summit
        
Conservatives Ask for Palin at Values Voters Summit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); CULTS & SECTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ABORTION (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (50%) Values Voter Summit; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Christians and Christianity; Mormons (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints); Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Elections

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%) Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (90%); RON PAUL (74%); MICHELE BACHMANN (59%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); HERMAN CAIN (50%) Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



462 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Romney Turns Again to the Economy

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: At a campaign stop in New Hampshire, Mitt Romney accuses President Obama of fostering divisiveness in America. 

 BODY:
MILFORD, N.H. -- Mitt Romney on Monday accused President Obama of fostering divisiveness in America and said the protests against Wall Street were unfairly criticizing an entire sector of the country's economy.
Speaking at a town-hall-style meeting in New Hampshire, Mr. Romney said that "Wall Street is connected to Main Street" and argued that Mr. Obama has been fostering a climate of blame by seeking higher taxes on the wealthy.
"Let's not fight any street in America," Mr. Romney said. "If there are bad actors, go find them and punish them, big time."
But he said that he was "really disappointed and in some respects a little frightened by the president's rhetoric -- trying to find someone to blame."
Mr. Romney arrived in New Hampshire a day before the next nationally televised Republican presidential debate and after a weekend in which the subject of the campaign abruptly shifted to social issues and questions about his Mormon faith.
Two speakers at a conference of religious conservatives in Washington questioned whether Mr. Romney was a Christian, inserting the potentially explosive issue of faith into the campaign after largely being absent this year.
But Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, declined to take the bait Monday morning, focusing instead on the economy, as he does at most of his events. 
"In some respects, the Obama economy is a 'Where's Waldo' economy," Mr. Romney said. "Finding a job, a good paying job, in this economy is harder than finding Waldo in one of his books."
On immigration, Mr. Romney once again urged the construction of a fence along the Mexican border and a crackdown on businesses who hire illegal immigrants. 
He made sure to refer to the Texas program that allows some children of illegal immigrants to qualify for in-state tuition to colleges and universities. But he did not mention Mr. Perry directly.
"I vetoed that measure," Mr. Romney said of a similar bill passed by the legislature in Massachusetts. "Why in the world would we want taxpayers in the U.S. to be paying a tuition break, a tuition credit, for those who were here illegally?"
The friendly crowd of more than 100 people, crammed into a small V.F.W. hall, offered Mr. Romney several opportunities to criticize Mr. Obama.
Asked whether the president's jobs bill is a backdoor way to finance Democratic campaigns, Mr. Romney agreed, saying that labor unions were able to "extract dues on all of their members" and then a chief executive of a labor union can pick a candidate.
But when he was asked by a rail worker what he thought of union workers, Mr. Romney sought to draw distinctions between union leadership and their members.
"I consider the C.E.O.'s of organized labor not to be my big buddies," Mr. Romney said. "I consider the rank and file of organized labor to be my buddies."
One woman asked a question for her 8-year-old daughter, who was too shy to ask it herself: What was his favorite children's book? Mr. Romney hesitated briefly before reciting - verbatim - a poem that he said his mother used to read him when he was a little boy.
The poem, "Disobedience" by A.A. Milne, focuses on a little boy named James James Morrison Morrison Weatherby George Dupree, who tried to take "great care of his mother." (Mr. Romney is something of a fan of poem recitation - he often opens his usual speech on the trail by quoting several lines from the Samuel Walter Foss poem, "The Coming American.")
Mr. Romney began his event with some lighthearted banter with his wife, Ann.
"Now I have someone with me today who would rarely be introduced by my sons as a fiscal conservative, but it's my wife, Ann," Mr. Romney said, to laughter.
"He's in trouble now," Mrs. Romney warned.
"Nothing new," her husband quipped.
Mrs. Romney said that she was "thrilled to let people also know the other side of Mitt," prompting Mr. Romney to turn his backside to the crowd.
"Oh, dear," Mrs. Romney said, as the audience half laughed, half groaned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); IMMIGRATION (86%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (86%); TUITION FEES (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CAUCUSES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (67%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (67%); GOVERNORS (65%) Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; New Hampshire; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (79%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



463 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Mayors Say U.S. Is Ignorant of Cities' Needs

BYLINE: STEVEN YACCINO


HIGHLIGHT: Three big city mayors who took part in a panel discussion Monday night criticized the federal government for not giving them the tools they need to help their cities thrive. 

 BODY:
CHICAGO - Three big-city mayors who took part in a panel discussion Monday night criticized the federal government for not giving them the tools they need to help their cities thrive.
The panel, which was moderated by Thomas L. Friedman, a columnist for The New York Times, was the first evening event of a TED Talks-inspired week of attractions called Chicago Ideas Week, which will showcase more than 160 speakers around the city over the coming days.
Speaking from the stage at the Oriental Theatre downtown, Mayors Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, Rahm Emanuel of Chicago and Kasim Reed of Atlanta, discussed the myriad challenges their cities face - from public schools to garbage collection, job creation and the Occupy Wall Street protests.
But Mr. Friedman hit a nerve when he asked if they felt the federal government was giving them the support they needed to be successful.
"I think, basically, the federal government has no understanding of what goes on at a local level," Mr. Bloomberg said, adding that most federal financing is given at the state level. "Most of the money never makes it to the cities where the real problem and the economic potential is."
Mr. Reed agreed, saying that less than 8 percent of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act went to cities. "The fact of the matter is they really are not paying attention," he said.
Mr. Emanuel, a former Illinois congressman who recently worked as President Obama's chief of staff, showed more reluctance to criticize his former boss, but admitted that there's less "appreciation" at the federal level for what mayors go through to make their metropolitan areas grow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); POLITICS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (54%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (54%) Mayors; Bloomberg, Michael R; Emanuel, Rahm; Reed, Kasim; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (88%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (72%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Emanuel, Rahm; Reed, Kasim

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



464 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Dance Institute, Centered in Harlem

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
For 35 years the National Dance Institute has been a gypsy, in the words of its founder, Jacques d'Amboise, the former New York City Ballet principal dancer. The institute rented and borrowed space here and there as it brought dance, performance and arts education to thousands of New York City public school students.
But its itinerant days are over, as exuberantly demonstrated on a recent fall afternoon by a group of children dancing inside a sleek, modern studio on 147th Street, between Adam Clayton Powell and Frederick Douglass Boulevards. The studio is part of the institute's first permanent home, 18,000 square feet of clean lines and blond wood inside what was once Public School 90, one of the many buildings in central Harlem shuttered in the 1970s as economic decline battered the city. 
On Tuesday evening there will be a ribbon cutting to celebrate the official opening of the National Dance Institute Center for Learning & the Arts, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg expected to attend. City officials, community leaders and educators hope that the center will become a beacon for the arts in a changing Harlem.
''I think of the center as a crucible of learning and the arts,'' said Mr. d'Amboise, 77, the subject of ''He Makes Me Feel Like Dancin','' which won the 1983 Oscar for best feature documentary. ''It will be filled after school and before school and on the weekends, as we reach out to other arts organizations in the neighborhood, senior citizens and preschool children.''
The center has four studios (with floors built to accommodate dancers), administrative offices, two art galleries, a terrace (for concerts and other events) and a 175-seat performance space. It resides inside the former school, an early 1900s castlelike limestone, terra-cotta and brick building, which was gutted and turned into a condominium called PS90 in 2009, its facade, including gargoyles, preserved.
''We saw this site when it was a shell and kind of fell in love,'' said Kathy Landau, the executive director of the National Dance Institute, or N.D.I. ''We loved the idea of returning a former school into an education facility again. The architecture, the light, were right. How could we not do it?''
The institute paid $11.5 million for the property and construction as part of a $20 million capital campaign, Ms. Landau said, with support from board members and $5 million from George Soros's Open Society Foundations. After buying the new home, it sought an additional $8.5 million to sustain the institute's programs, she said, and are now $6.25 million away from the campaign goal. (The institute -- which will be able to serve 5,000 students each week, an increase from 4,000 -- has an annual operating budget of $3.5 million, with $115,000 coming from the city.)
The move to Harlem is a milestone in the life of the dance institute and signals that ''neighborhood revitalization is proceeding apace,'' said Kate D. Levin, commissioner of the city's Department of Cultural Affairs. ''N.D.I. is a strong arts education provider and home to students and artists. It'll be a terrific resource for the community.''
Years ago the city took over many of the foreclosed and abandoned buildings in central Harlem and selected developers to revive the area, primarily for affordable housing. The city, L&M Development Partners and Goldman Sachs's Urban Investment Group helped develop and finance the condominium project. The units in the building were sold at market rate and below-market rate in the multi-income building. A number of musicians, artists and photographers are moving in, according to brokers.
''The culmination of the project was N.D.I.,'' said Ron Moelis, chief executive of L&M. ''We wanted to get a use that was good for the community.'' The center, open since August, has been warmly greeted in the neighborhood, spruced up in recent years with new cultural sites like Harlem Stage and the Dwyer Cultural Center, as well as new housing.
Barbara Freeman, the principal of P.S. 161, Pedro Albizu Campos, at 499 West 133rd Street, said it was exciting to have the center so close. The institute recently completed a two-week residency in theatrical arts and music at P.S. 161. ''We're bringing up a generation that should feel cultural institutions are for them,'' Ms. Freeman said, ''and that they're not just places where other people go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacques d'Amboise, center, in jacket, at the new home of the National Dance Institute Center.
Inset, the entrance. Above, from left, Mr. d'Amboise, founder of the National Dance Institute
Ellen Weinstein, artistic director
 and Ron Moelis, chief executive of L&M Development. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); BALLET (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DANCE INSTITUTE (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



465 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: New York's Public Architecture Gets a Face-Lift

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
It was business as usual when I stopped at the Queens Central Library in downtown Jamaica the other morning. Visitors were nosing through racks of dog-eared best sellers, schmoozing near the circulation desk and peering into banks of computers on long tables in the lobby.
Across the room, beneath ''Discover!'' in red lettering, light poured through a large candy-colored doorway opening onto a new addition, a children's science center. Immaculate and all white, the place gave off the cheery, vaguely techno vibe of a Swatch shop on the Ginza.
Designed by 1100 Architect with an interior by Lee H. Skolnick Architecture & Design Partnership, the Children's Library Discovery Center, as it's called, is part of a quiet revolution reshaping the city's public architecture. Piecemeal across the five boroughs, New York is gradually being remade. 
These changes come largely thanks to David J. Burney, a polite Englishman who has lived here for 30-odd years and, since 2004, has been Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's commissioner for the Department of Design and Construction. Under him, and mostly under the radar, dozens of new and refurbished libraries, firehouses, emergency medical stations, police precincts, homeless processing centers and museums have been designed by gifted and occasionally famous architects. Taken together, they have brought fresh architectural standards to the city's infrastructure and, often, to poor, middle- and working-class neighborhoods that have long been overlooked.
It's a big change from decades ago, when city bureaucrats considered good design a costly frill. The quality of construction was allowed to suffer to serve the bottom line. This message of official indifference contributed to a climate of public skepticism about government and the city that, in turn, dimmed expectations for urban improvements, large or small.
And it's the small things, after all -- some greenery, good lighting, well-maintained sidewalks and well-made buildings -- that shape our perceptions of where we live, whether or not we're always conscious of them.
''The little interventions add up,'' is how Mr. Burney put it to me recently. The projects his department has been overseeing aspire to improve the general quality of street life and, in a few cases, tip the balance in neglected corners of the city. For instance, an E.M.S. station on Bond Street in Brooklyn, by Beyhan Karahan Architects, has added eyes on the street to what had been a fairly deserted and derelict stretch near the Gowanus Canal. The area has become safer since.
A century ago Gilded Age patrons, inspired by progressive ideas, enlisted lions of Beaux-Arts architecture to devise landmark schools, firehouses and police stations throughout the city. Andrew Carnegie distributed branch libraries -- raised like temples or courthouses a few steps above the street, with stony facades and lofty reading rooms -- to serve the masses as silent palaces for public improvement.
Today libraries double as centers for the elderly and toddler playrooms. They're safe after-school havens for teenagers of working parents, with rooms set aside that are stocked with computers and, at a few branches, like the Rockaways, even with recording studios.
Libraries have also learned from retailers like Starbucks and Barnes & Noble about what people expect when they leave their homes to go someplace public to sit and read. Libraries have become modern town squares and gathering places; they offer millions of New Yorkers employment counseling, English-language classes and, crucially, Internet access. Quiet rooms, like those Carnegie built, tend to be smaller and set aside these days, almost like smoking sections in airports.
Is that a bad thing? Times change. Research libraries still survive. To imagine that libraries could remain as they were half a century ago would entail wishing away the Web and the demands of old people, immigrants, the unemployed, schoolchildren and parents who want constructive places to keep their young children occupied at a time when public resources and political good will are in increasingly short supply.
''We need to be less introverted,'' is how Thomas W. Galante, the chief executive officer of the Queens Library, summed up the challenge for libraries today.
The Discovery Center, which he oversaw and raised $30 million to build, occupies what used to be the site of a nightclub on a corner lot next to the Central Library. At two stories, it is scaled to match the mix of low-rises in the area, although its shiny, sleek facade of textured and opaque glass makes it look about as inconspicuous in this context as Angelina Jolie at a Wendy's drive-through.
A 22,000-square-foot glass box, the center comes with a wonderland interior by Mr. Skolnick's firm. Its sculptured central stairway, encouraging people to walk rather than take the elevator, links easy-to-decipher displays of planets and animals that show different parts of the science collection.
The aging Central Library building next door, by York & Sawyer from 1966 and trimmed in limestone and granite, is by comparison a glum, modernist affair, conceived to face down the bus depot and commercial strip across Merrick Boulevard. Its interior is mostly concealed from passers-by.
The Discovery Center is the opposite: all transparency and nonchalance. Its facade, pierced by large windows opening the interior to the street, and vice versa, glows as day turns to night, acting like a beacon in the neighborhood and redefining a humdrum, bus-clogged block.
The new building illustrates what can happen when architects, even without an outsize budget, have a creative agenda and a supportive client. When New York authorities used to hire only the lowest bidders for projects, good architects didn't bother to compete. There was no one in government who would watch their backs. That proved costlier for the public in the long run.
''All the money the city thought it saved, it lost,'' Mr. Burney told me, ''because projects were often left unfinished or in disrepair. People tend to think design means more money. But the truth is that the tighter the budget, the more expertise you need to squeeze something good out of the process.''
This was the argument he took to Mayor Bloomberg's budget crunchers. After a dozen years as chief architect for the New York City Housing Authority, and as the first architect to take over the Department of Design and Construction, he was hired by the mayor with a mandate to create a Design and Construction Excellence program, along the lines of a federal plan, that brought better design to government buildings, starting in the mid-1990s.
The New York program reaches out to good architects, guaranteeing them market-rate fees. It sets aside money for projects -- under $10 million at first, and now $15 million -- for small firms, to encourage fresh ideas and young talent in the city. Crucially, it appoints project managers whose sole task is safeguarding design through construction when ''the risk,'' as Mr. Burney put it, ''is that because budgets and schedules can be quantified, but design can't, design is always the first place people look to cut.''
Mr. Skolnick echoed that thought the other day. ''Those of us who went into architecture to do some public good felt that if you didn't go into the public realm, you weren't doing your job,'' he said. ''But for years you were hesitant to take on projects with the city because you knew there would be trouble. With David, it's all changed now.''
It's changing, certainly. At the corner of Mulberry and Jersey streets in SoHo, I stopped in at the Mulberry Street Branch Library, another public library that opened a few years back. It fills a storefront and two floors below ground in a former chocolate factory. On a tight budget of about $7 million, Rogers Marvel Architects, the firm hired by the New York Public Library and overseen by Mr. Burney's department, restored the building's old cast-iron columns, masonry walls and timber beams, and inserted a stairwell to bring daylight and at least a partial view of the street to the subterranean levels. Separate areas were carved out downstairs for teenagers and for toddlers, and a reading room with a tall ceiling was devoted to adults who want peace and quiet.
It's a modest project, and that reading room seemed to me like the bottom of a well when it was empty that morning. But then I returned in the late afternoon. The teenage and toddler areas were bustling, the desks in the reading room all taken, and the benches beneath the big plate-glass windows on the ground floor occupied by older people mulling over shelves of DVDs. The place felt warm and welcoming.
Like the center in Queens, the SoHo library, easily overlooked when public attention tends toward more glamorous projects, points toward something larger than itself. It is a reminder that humane cities don't reserve quality architecture just for rich people, that small urban improvements help everyone because city neighborhoods are interdependent.
And that governments actually do get things right sometimes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Children's Library Discovery Center in Jamaica, Queens, is one of dozens of libraries, firehouses, police precincts and museums that have been built or refurbished by the city's Department of Design and Construction.(C1)
 Three views of the new Children's Library Discovery Center, part of the Queens Central Library. Designed by 1100 Architect, with an interior by Lee H. Skolnick Architecture, the building is an example of a trend in hiring prominent firms for public projects. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); CITIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MAMMALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MAYORS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



466 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: A Shiny Failure, Reborn as a Rehab Center

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Barbara Gray contributed research.

 BODY:
With buffed hardwood floors, a fireplace in the living room, marble in the bathrooms and Silestone in the kitchen, the 2,200-square-foot, full-floor apartment on West Broadway looks exactly like the luxury condo it was meant to be. The furniture is plush and neutral, original artwork hangs on the walls, there is a Wii console hooked up to the flat-screen television and, when the sights of TriBeCa's bustle from the second-floor windows are not enough, there is a planted, furnished roof deck upstairs, with views stretching from the Empire State Building to ground zero.
But the apartment, one of five carved out of a prewar loft building between Canal and Lispenard Streets, is not a sleek new residence that has suddenly come to market. Rather, it will soon be home to a revolving population of young adults recovering from substance abuse under a program officials say is the first of its kind in New York City. 
The project, called TriBeCa Twelve, is a collaboration between Hazelden, the Minnesota-based network of rehabilitation centers, and the Columbia University psychiatry department, and it represents an unusual resolution for a high-gloss condo development that went belly up.
The apartments did not go to buyers at fire-sale prices or to a new developer, nor did they simply stand vacant until the economy rebounded. Instead, the project is becoming a sober residence that combines a clinic and treatment programs solely for a college population. Young adults ages 18 to 25 have the highest rates of substance-abuse disorders of any group in the country, Hazelden officials say. New York City is home to 500,000 college students, yet has no other sober residences with support services dedicated to the problem.
When the building, at 283 West Broadway, was bought in 2005, the plan was to create a condo called TriBeCa Five with apartments ranging from $2.4 million to almost $3.8 million, according to listings on Streeteasy.com. But the project ran into financial trouble that led the bank to begin foreclosure proceedings and the developer to file for bankruptcy protection.
Hazelden looked at about 35 properties in New York, said Ann Bray, vice president for strategic initiatives, and purchased the building for just under $8.3 million last year, according to property records. The apartments were near completion when Hazelden took over the property, she said, but the building needed extensive renovation to attend to a number of technical issues, including redoing the facade, excavating the cellar and repairing water damage on two floors.
Ms. Bray oversaw interior design, looking for items that would be stylish but durable, she said, and choosing different art, fabrics and color schemes for the apartments to set them apart. ''They don't feel like they're in a rubber-stamp clinical environment,'' she said of residents at a center in Florida where Hazelden took a similar approach. ''It's uniquely their home.''
Officials have selected the first five residents, who are expected to move in this month, and are taking applications for future slots. While in the program, residents are subject to random drug testing and are expected to hold monthly dinners in their apartments with mentors and weekly dinners with their roommates, as well as attend 12-step meetings.
''If you're an isolater, we're not giving you an excuse to isolate,'' said Barbara Kistenmacher, executive director of the New York operation. ''We wanted to make it a community of accountability.''
The residence, which has its own clinic that can also accommodate 25 outpatients on the ground floor and offers mediation and yoga, costs $5,000 to $5,500 a month, which is not covered by health insurance, said William Moyers, vice president for public affairs, but can potentially be covered by student loans.
The first Hazelden center in Minnesota opened in a farmhouse 62 years ago, with its first New York patient, who identified himself as being in Wall Street investments, arriving soon thereafter, around 1952, said Mark Mishek, the chief executive. In Minneapolis, it is expanding a center for youths and families as part of a $42 million investment in treating young adults.
The TriBeCa building nods to Hazelden's rural roots, in photographic images of its woods embedded in the entry doors and an interior skylight. But it is also in the midst of a well-traveled nightlife zone, which would seem to offer many temptations to a recovering addict: the Canal Room, a party and performance space, is at one corner, the Nancy Whiskey Pub is at another and Pelea Mexicana, a restaurant with an extensive tequila collection, is across the street. But that is part of its point, said Mr. Moyers, whose father is the journalist Bill Moyers.
''You can be here and say, 'Yeah, I actually live in a community, and there can be people down on the street drinking and using drugs, and I don't have to do that even if I am in that community,' '' said Mr. Moyers, who had his own well-documented struggle with substance abuse, hitting bottom in 1989 in a crack house in Harlem and ending up in the psychiatric ward of St. Vincent's Hospital. ''There's no moat around here, and that's one of the most important things I tell young people who are trying to recover: the rest of the world is going to go on drinking and drugging, but there is an alternative to that.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A building, center, on West Broadway that was intended to be a condo but is now a drug rehabilitation center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (88%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); FLOORING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); PSYCHIATRY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



467 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Putting a Face on What's at Stake in a Clash Over the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
At its most elemental, a battle brewing in the City Council comes down to this: Do a few thousand New Yorkers like Kimberly Ortiz deserve a raise?
A 27-year-old with a broad smile and vibrant wells for eyes, Ms. Ortiz lives in a South Bronx apartment with two young children and her retired mother. How to make pay stretch is a weekly bookkeeping nightmare.
''The most money I ever made as assistant manager of the gift shop at the Statue of Liberty was $9.25 an hour,'' she recalled. ''Every check goes to something: two weeks to rent, one week to kids' clothes.'' 
A few weeks ago, her throat felt rubbed raw. She had dropped her insurance and could not afford a doctor. ''It's disgusting to choose between health and enough money to live,'' she said.
Some might object that I've filled this draft of misery too close to the brim. As our unemployment rate bumps near double figures, Ms. Ortiz at least has a job. The New York State minimum wage is $7.25 an hour.
And if, as some Council members propose, the city requires employers in projects that receive deep public subsidies to pay at least $10 an hour, plus benefits (or $11.50 with no benefits), might not some developers close their checkbooks rather than build?
Should policy be held hostage to tales of misery?
The mayor's take is not subtle. Mention the living wage and he talks as if he's just received a report that Bolsheviks have made a move on the Bronx.
Across the City Hall rotunda, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, offers a more nimble take. But her past as a left-wing activist and her mayoral ambitions as a centrist liberal are caught in a spider's web on this one.
Ms. Quinn could render the proposal comatose. A year ago her members tried to push through a living wage in the Bronx and to mandate a few sick days for workers. She ensured each effort ended up baled, tied and set by the BQE for early sanitation pickup.
But the Occupy Wall Street crowd, dismissed early on as manifesto-less urchins, have fired the popular imagination. Labor unions march through the streets. Attention turns to the canyon separating the city's rich and poor.
Unionists, black ministers and Working Families Party activists threaten mayhem in the 2013 election if Ms. Quinn does not bend.
Ms. Quinn does indignant well; she insists no whiff of politics will influence her. She also notes, reasonably, that the previous living wage proposal was far too vague.
''Obviously there is an attempt to narrow the bill, and that is to balance the two sides of the coin,'' she says. ''We are trying to keep people working in decent jobs. I appreciate everyone's attempts to balance these goals.''
The speaker's appreciation most likely is tempered by her fervent desire to see this issue disappear altogether.
The mayor is hard to figure. Over the summer he personally seeded a multimillion-dollar initiative to help impoverished black and Latino men. His studies illuminate that millions of the poor (30 percent of city children live in poverty) work, and yet cannot crawl above the poverty line.
Nor is a living wage a radical thought.
Cities from Boston to Los Angeles have employed the living wage on a fairly broad scale. (The Council proposal is a penny tossed in a municipal sea, most likely affecting a few thousand workers.)
A year ago, the mayor, who can be promiscuous with consultant dollars, paid $1 million to Charles River Associates to study living-wage proposals. Aides promised no foregone conclusions.
That beggared belief. The two principal researchers for Charles River were longtime opponents not just of the living wage, but also of the minimum wage itself. The shock was not mortal when they concluded a living wage would be a poisoned chalice.
I called Peter Dreier, who once was a deputy mayor in Boston, where he molded a living wage still in effect. ''It is not going to kill New York's golden goose,'' he said. ''It is not even going to ruffle the goose's feathers.''
This debate holds no fascination for the mayor. ''The last time people tried to set rates basically was in the Soviet Union, and that didn't work out very well,'' he said last week.
I tried out the mayor's reasoning on Ms. Ortiz, who dropped her class at Lehman College because of a lack of money. When I got to the Soviet Union, she looked at me as if I had sucked on a crack pipe.
''He compared a wage I can survive on to the Soviet Union?'' she said. ''That's ridiculous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kimberly Ortiz lives in a South Bronx apartment with her sons, Aidan and Ethan, and her mother (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); FAMILY (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (65%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



468 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Banks Help Hedge Funds Recruit

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
Wall Street banks often boast that they hire the best and the brightest. Now, scrambling to bolster profits, they have become full-time headhunters for some of their biggest hedge fund clients, a role that is rife with potential conflicts.
Big banks have long provided extra benefits to hedge funds, including finding office space for firms and raising money for new portfolios. They have even acted like informal recruiters for their premier clients by passing along resumes or making introductions to industry professionals.
But those once-ancillary placement services have become established practices as Wall Street struggles to make up for profit centers that have been lost to new regulations and a weak economy. Since the financial crisis, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America and others have become powerful recruiting forces for hedge funds. In an effort to secure lucrative brokerage and trading business, the banks scout finance executives, accountants and receptionists free. Goldman calls the practice ''talent introduction.''
Without the necessary disclosures and appropriate restrictions, the staffing services could prove controversial. 
For one, Wall Street firms risk provoking the ire of a client if they poach hedge fund talent or compete for the same potential employees. It also raises a question of loyalty; hedge fund executives may be swayed to direct business to the Wall Street firm that hired them rather than the bank that makes the best sense for investors.
''We get put in this situation every day,'' said Stuart Hendel, global head of prime brokerage at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which offers recruiting as part of its hedge fund services. The banks, he said, have ''to walk a tight rope.''
Banks say they have strict rules to prevent conflicts. Bank of America says it will not poach active employees of a current client.
''All we're doing is providing a clearinghouse for managers to meet prospective employees,'' Mr. Hendel said. ''We don't go looking for people, people seem to find us. And we make it very clear we're not providing recommendations.''
Goldman said it disclosed its consulting services to clients and had ''robust policies and procedures'' to prevent conflicts of interest. ''We are not in the headhunting business,'' a spokeswoman for the firm, Andrea Raphael, said. ''We do not solicit employees of one client to work at another client.''
Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley declined to comment.
The practice renews concerns about how hedge funds indirectly pay for such secondary services. Government regulators have cracked down on these ''soft dollar'' arrangements - where a money manager steers business to a bank in exchange for perks. The deals can come at the expense of investors, who may be unaware of the relationship.
Several years ago, Massachusetts's chief financial regulator, William Galvin, took aim at so-called hedge fund hotels. At the time, Wall Street firms provided office space to up-and-coming money managers at below market rates in return for their trading business. As part of a settlement with UBS, investment advisers that leased real estate from the bank in the state had to provide written disclosure to current and prospective clients about the arrangement.
It is unclear if hedge funds report their use of Wall Street staffing services. Mr. Galvin said that the money managers should disclose the value of the services they receive from big banks and the employees placed by banks.
''It's the type of relationship investors should know about, or simply shouldn't exist,'' Mr. Galvin said.
As the industry has grown in size and stature, hedge funds have become an increasingly important source of revenue for Wall Street banks. Hedge funds, for example, account for an estimated 35 percent of trading commissions, according to Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
To distinguish themselves in the highly competitive business, banks - which provide credit and execute transactions for the big investors through their prime brokerage and trading divisions - have built out their suite of services.
Recruiting was a natural extension. Wall Street firms, through their prime brokerage units, are involved in the daily operations of thousands of hedge funds, giving them a good sense of the industry turnover.
After acting as informal recruiters for years, many banks formalized the process in recent years. The Wall Street firms have created rich databases that track hedge fund openings and potential candidates, with a small staff dedicated to the service.
It is appealing for hedge funds. Traditional recruiters take as much as 25 percent of the hire's first-year compensation. But Wall Street doesn't charge anything. Richard Scardina, co-founder of the Atlantic Group, a professional search firm, said the banks were his biggest rivals.
''It's competition, but they are not going to put me out of business,'' he said. ''We specialize in recruitment day in and day out, and that is an edge that is hard to compete with.''
Mostly, the banks' staffing efforts focus on back-office and accounting functions, although the banks occasionally place investment professionals and research analysts. Glazer Capital Management, a New York-based hedge fund with roughly $500 million, recently tapped Goldman to hire a staff member in its accounting division, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
The potential landmines for banks are significant. The majority of people in Goldman's database are out of work, according to executives at three hedge funds who have used the service. But the list, the people said, does include a small number of hedge fund employees looking to leave their jobs, because they're unhappy or are looking to move to another part of the world.
In such instances, banks could run the risk of poaching staff from their hedge fund clients, said Dick Del Bello, a senior partner at Conifer Securities, a independent firm that provides administrative support to hedge funds. ''The one thing they have to be careful of is, you don't want to raid the henhouse,'' he said. ''You don't want to go to client A and take someone actively there and send them to client B.''
The practice could also have unwanted consequences for hedge funds. If the Wall Street bank knows a top executive wants to leave a firm, the departure could raise red flags about the health of the hedge fund, Mr. Del Bello said. The bank, in response, might decide to withdraw the fund's credit, potentially forcing it to sell assets.
Ms. Raphael of Goldman said that if the firm discovered something material, it ''would discuss the matter and its implications with the client.''
To Mr. Galvin, it comes down to disclosure. ''If you are an investor, you want to know the manager is acting in your interest without an ulterior motive.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Massachusetts's chief financial regulator, William Galvin, says money managers should disclose the value of the services they receive from big banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TLUMACKI/BOSTON GLOBE) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); ACCOUNTING (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



469 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE STUMP; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Talks Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
HOOKSETT, N.H. - With a pledge to ''erase the old map'' and adopt a foreign policy to address modern threats, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. drew distinctions from his Republican rivals on Monday by calling for the United States to expand its global engagement and abandon a cold war military mindset. 
''Simply advocating more ships, more troops and more weapons is not a viable path forward,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''We need more agility, more intelligence and more economic engagement with the world.''
In a speech here at Southern New Hampshire University, Mr. Huntsman renewed his call for a quick end to the war in Afghanistan, declaring it was ''cultural arrogance to think we can make tribal leaders into democratic leaders.'' He said a focus on counterterrorism should take priority over nation-building.
''We still have remnants of a top-heavy, post-cold war infrastructure,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''It needs to be transformed to reflect the 21st Century world and the growing asymmetric threats we face.''
Mr. Huntsman, a former Utah governor who served as ambassador to China in the Obama administration, delivered his foreign policy address on the eve of a Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire. In a campaign that has been dominated by an economic discussion, Mr. Huntsman is seeking to distinguish himself by promoting his foreign policy credentials, including serving two presidents as an ambassador and another in key trade posts.
''America once had a foreign policy based on containment - the containment of communism,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''Today, we need a foreign policy based on expansion - the expansion of America's competitiveness and engagement in the world through partnerships and trade agreements.''
Mr. Huntsman delivered a mild critique of President Obama, saying that his polices had ''diminished America's presence on the global stage.'' He did not mention any of his Republican rivals by name, but his speech sought to draw distinctions from remarks delivered last week in a foreign policy address by Mitt Romney, who called for reversing spending cuts in the Department of Defense and increasing investments in shipbuilding and missile defense programs.
In a 30-minute address, followed by a question-and-answer session, Mr. Huntsman said that it was time to move beyond the ''transactional'' relationship that the United States has had for 40 years with China.
''We buy their products. They buy our bonds,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''But for a truly healthy relationship, we need to infuse the relationship with shared values.''
He added: ''There is no other relationship that, if mismanaged, carries greater negative consequences for America and the world.''
Four months after entering the race, Mr. Huntsman has struggled to raise money and enter the top tier of candidates. Last month, he closed his national campaign headquarters in Florida to focus entirely on New Hampshire, which holds the first primary in the nation.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); COLD WAR (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); TERRORISM (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITT ROMNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



470 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Religious Right Is Now a Force Divided

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- Measured by national polling, media attention and millions in the bank, the Republican field appears to have come down to a bout between two heavyweights: Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, vs. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas.
But in the state where the first nominating votes will actually be counted, the field resembles more of an all-out brawl, with candidates who rank deep on the undercard nationally given a chance to steal an upset finish at or near the top in the Iowa caucuses, the first nominating contest, now probably less than three months away.
''I think it's a wide-open race,'' said Gov. Terry E. Branstad, a Republican. ''Michele Bachmann is going to make a very strong effort here. Rick Santorum has put in a lot of effort. Ron Paul -- I've seen a lot of Ron Paul signs -- don't count him out.''
Of course, many Republicans may ultimately rally around a candidate they consider more electable in the general election against President Obama, and as the campaign goes forward a better-financed candidate like Mr. Romney or Mr. Perry may be able to convey that message. 
But in the meantime, the lower-tier candidates are attracting uncommon attention, and one reason is the influence of Christian conservatives, who make up the bulk of the voters in the Republican caucuses. In 2008 they rallied behind Mike Huckabee to give him a surprise victory over Mr. Romney, who had spent $10 million and a year on the ground.
But this time, social conservatives are divided among several candidates who are competing fiercely for their support -- each boasting of rock-ribbed opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage. The candidates are also finding ways to tie other conservative positions, like ending big government and regulations, to principles of Christian faith.
''Conservative, pro-family folks are spread out all over the place,'' said Matt Reisetter, who worked for Mr. Huckabee in 2008 and is undecided this year. ''You can make a case for six or seven people. It's crazy to imagine we're this close to the caucuses and it's still wide open.''
Sixty percent of Republican caucusgoers in 2008 identified themselves as evangelical or born-again Christians in surveys of voters entering the polls, although they were not a monolithic bloc: Mr. Huckabee won with 34 percent of the total votes.
Even though abortion and same-sex marriage rank relatively low on the list of issues for Republicans generally -- and certainly behind the economy -- they fire up activists, who have a disproportionate influence in a caucus state, where voters must be committed enough to spend hours in a neighbor's living room on a winter evening before casting their vote. This year, the caucuses are likely to be held in early January.
Some candidates are paying particular attention to a subset of social conservatives, home-school parents, whom one strategist compared to postal carriers: neither sleet nor dark of night will keep them from the caucuses.
''I would say those home-schooling for faith-based reasons are going to go hand in glove with an interest in the social issues like life and marriage,'' said Bill Gustoff, a lobbyist for the Network of Iowa Christian Home Educators. He estimated that half of the 30,000 home-school households would have a voter at a caucus, a significant slice in an election that draws about 120,000 total voters.
At least two candidates, Mr. Santorum and Mrs. Bachmann, both of whom have home-schooled their children, have staff members here to organize this vote.
Mrs. Bachmann, who has lost much ground since winning the Ames, Iowa, straw poll in August, seems to be looking to evangelicals to rescue her. On Thursday she introduced a House bill requiring women seeking an abortion to listen to the fetal heartbeat.
One Bachmann aide, Peter Waldron, gathered 16 evangelical pastors in Des Moines last week to discuss strategy. ''These are our caucus-builders,'' Mr. Waldron said. ''We have a very deliberate plan. It's been thought-out, prayed over.''
Although most pastors are careful not to endorse a candidate from the pulpit, those who are politically active make it clear whom they favor.
''My favorite phrase in our church is, 'I will not tell you who to vote for,' '' said the Rev. Bill Tvedt of Jubilee Family Church in Oskaloosa. ''But you won't need anyone to tell you who to vote for by the time you're taught scriptural world view.''
Mr. Tvedt supports Mrs. Bachmann -- and predicted that most of his congregation of 150 would caucus for her -- saying she is one of ''the biggest opponents of what we would call progressive, socialist, liberal agendas.''
Herman Cain, the former pizza executive who has surged in national polls, also has a strong appeal to social conservatives, but his prospects may be lessened in Iowa because he has few visits planned to the state, where voters insist on taking the measure of a candidate close-up.
Another difference this year is that the loyalty to candidates seems especially fluid, with voters and even activists switching allegiances.
''There is still a vacuum out there that can be filled: Who's going to be the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney?'' said Cody Brown, Mr. Santorum's state director. The Santorum campaign claims its telephone surveys of Republicans shows support for Mrs. Bachmann drastically falling off.
Mrs. Bachmann's national campaign manager, Keith Nahigian, disputed this. ''Anybody who was strong for us is still strong for us,'' he said.
Mr. Perry, whose popularity surged after he entered the race in August, has lost luster with conservatives because of actions he took as governor, primarily his promotion of a vaccine for Texas schoolgirls, Gardasil, and his support of in-state college tuition for some illegal immigrants.
''The Gardasil and the immigration thing are killers,'' said Steve Deace, an influential religious talk-radio host in Iowa. ''He lost a major opportunity to blow the rest of the field away. He can still very much win the nomination but it's going to be a dogfight -- hill by hill, issue by issue.''
Indeed, that is the kind of fight Mr. Perry seems to be waging with his paid Iowa staff of 10, one of the largest of any candidate. In thousands of phone calls to likely caucusgoers, staff members are finding that most bring up immigration. They have been trained to try to change minds, voter by voter.
They argue that the in-state tuition the governor supported is not a taxpayer-financed subsidy; it is available only to children of illegal immigrants who graduated from a Texas high school, and most go to community colleges.
Even if a second-tier candidate wins Iowa, it is no guarantee of a path to the nomination, as Mr. Huckabee's example showed.
But the only candidate who can afford not to win may be Mr. Romney, whose strategy in Iowa has consistently been to lower expectations. He has only five paid staff members in the state and has made infrequent visits.
One possible outcome that would be sweet irony for Mr. Romney: all the others split the social conservative vote and Mr. Romney, who still has plenty of support here, emerges the surprise victor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum, second from right above, suited up for an old-timers' baseball game in Urbandale, Iowa. Representative Michele Bachmann spoke at a Faith and Family Council news conference in Des Moines. Representative Ron Paul, below, attended a Polk County Republican picnic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY CHIND/THE DES MOINES REGISTER
CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); MARRIAGE (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); BASEBALL (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RON PAUL (88%); RICK PERRY (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (78%); RICK SANTORUM (73%); MICHELE BACHMANN (73%); TERRY BRANSTAD (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



471 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Many in Both Parties Want a Window Into the Deficit Reduction Panel's Work

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On one crucial point, a powerful Congressional committee seeking ways to reduce the federal budget deficit has managed to produce a rare bipartisan consensus: Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives in and out of Congress say the panel is doing too much of its work in secret.
Moreover, they say, the secrecy could make it more difficult for the 12-member panel to win acceptance for its recommendations from the public and from other members of Congress. 
Far from apologizing for their secrecy, members of the committee say it shows they are making progress toward a possible agreement, establishing trust among themselves without public posturing or partisan sniping. And there is a view among some in Congress that such politically charged bargains can be struck only behind closed doors, where members can talk freely, insulated from the special interests that could swoop in to try to kill elements of an agreement.
The panel, which has six remaining weeks to hash out a plan to reduce future deficits by at least $1.2 trillion, operates in an insular world. It has held two public hearings, one on spending and one on taxes, but has not taken testimony from the public.
The only witnesses were the director of the Congressional Budget Office and the chief of staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation, both appointed by Congress.
Members of the committee often skitter away from journalists who wait outside their meetings, held up to seven hours a day.
''The American people deserve to know what is happening in this committee,'' said Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, noting that the panel's recommendations would go directly to the floor of the House and the Senate. ''These negotiations should be fully open.
''We don't get a better result for the people of this country when things are done behind closed doors.''
Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington and co-chairwoman of the committee, said the panel would vote publicly on its final recommendations, but needed to deliberate behind closed doors so members could be ''open and honest with each other.''
''I remember well one time when I was very little and I was fighting with my brother every other minute, and my mother put us in a back room and said, 'Don't come out until you got it figured out,' '' Mrs. Murray said. ''We stared at each other for a while, but we came out friends.''
Panel members resent invasions of their privacy. ''We like to eat breakfast without having cameras in our face,'' Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas and co-chairman of the panel, told reporters last month.
The panel, officially known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, has been dubbed the super committee by many because it has extraordinary authority to recommend changes in any spending or tax laws, and its recommendations cannot be amended before the House and the Senate vote on them this year.
Senator Dean Heller, Republican of Nevada, said it should be called the ''super-secret committee.''
''We are opposed to inside baseball,'' he said. ''That's what we are seeing in this super committee.''
Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, said: ''I understand the argument that the secrecy will facilitate robust discussion. But the American people have come to expect openness and transparency in the legislative process. I am not aware of any situation where a legislative committee responsible for matters of such profound sweeping importance operates in secret.''
Some panel members have met with lobbyists for groups trying to protect the benefits, contracts and tax breaks they receive from the government. Advocacy groups like the Sunlight Foundation and the Brennan Center for Justice have urged the panel to disclose such meetings, saying voters have a right to know who is lobbying for special treatment. And they want panel members to disclose campaign contributions within 48 hours of receipt.
''The secretive activities of this committee fly in the face of all the promises of transparency by Republicans and Democrats over the last few years,'' said Brian H. Darling, a fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation.
Republicans excoriated Democrats for writing much of the 2010 health care law and the 2009 economic stimulus law in private.
Among the Democrats demanding more openness are Representatives Jan Schakowsky and Mike Quigley of Illinois and Dave Loebsack of Iowa.
''I'm concerned that we are going to be handed a set of recommendations and asked to cast an up-or-down vote with no chance for amendments,'' Ms. Schakowsky said. ''The American public, and those of us who represent them, deserve to have these questions debated openly.''
Mr. Quigley said the panel needed to be more open to ensure that its recommendations would be accepted by Congress and the public.
Pressure is growing. Some Congressional leaders have raised expectations for the panel, saying it should recommend 10-year savings of $4 trillion.
The momentous nature of the committee's work increases concern about its secrecy. ''I am dying to know what they are doing,'' said Max Richtman, president of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, which represents beneficiaries of the programs. ''Members of the super committee should have the courage to face the people who will be affected by their decisions.''
Some lobbyists for military contractors expressed similar frustration. ''The super committee and its staff are being very guarded, holding their meetings and deliberations behind closed doors,'' said Cord A. Sterling, vice president of the Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group. He said he had met with one panel member, Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina.
The industry has employees in every Congressional district and is encouraging them to lobby lawmakers who will eventually vote on the panel's recommendations.
''Decisions of the super committee will affect what weapons systems we build, what research is conducted, what factories are kept open, what people we employ and how many people we have to lay off,'' said Michael H. Herson, president of American Defense International, a lobbying firm.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representatives Dave Camp, left, and Xavier Becerra and Senator John Kerry leave a meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); XAVIER BECERRA (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%); KELLY AYOTTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



472 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Romney, on Friendly Turf, Keeps His Message on the Economy as Attacks Fly

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Hooksett, N.H.

 BODY:
HOPKINTON, N.H. -- Facing an increasing barrage of attacks on his character from Republican rivals and critics, Mitt Romney ignored the criticism Monday and sought to maintain his focus on the nation's struggling economy ahead of a debate on that topic here Tuesday night.
In a striking new video, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas attacked Mr. Romney as both the inspiration for President Obama's health care plan and a serial flip-flopper who should not be considered for the White House.
Appearing at two town halls and at a historic country store, Mr. Romney studiously avoided engaging his opponents, sticking to a strategy of staying on his economic message, which has worked well for his campaign during the last several months. He declined to take any questions from reporters.
Mr. Romney's efforts to shrug off questions about his religion and his commitment to social issues were well received in New Hampshire, where he drew large and friendly crowds in a state where independents can vote in the Republican primary and where he also leads in the polls. 
Less clear is how well the messaging strategy will work in early-nominating states like Iowa and South Carolina, where social conservatives and evangelical voters often make up a large part of the Republican electorate.
Those issues may be less central at Tuesday's economic-focused debate. But Mr. Romney's rivals are clearly hoping to exploit his past record on health care, abortion and other social issues to raise doubts about his conservative credentials.
The attacks from Governor Perry came as a conservative activist repeated his claim -- denied by Mr. Romney's campaign -- that Mr. Romney was a proponent of same-sex marriage in Massachusetts. And a prominent Texas evangelical pastor who had called Mr. Romney's Mormon religion a ''cult'' on Friday renewed his criticism in a television interview.
The minister, Robert Jeffress, a Southern Baptist evangelical leader from Texas who introduced Mr. Perry on Saturday at Values Voter conference, repeated his claim that Mormonism was a ''theological cult'' and not part of ''historical'' Christianity.
''I don't believe that they are Christians,'' Mr. Jeffress said on MSNBC's ''Hardball'' program. He called Mr. Romney a ''conservative out of convenience,'' adding that evangelicals ''prefer competent Christians to competent non-Christians.''
The video released by the Perry campaign offered a preview of what is likely to be an intense fall campaign, especially between the two well-financed candidates. Mr. Perry reported raising $17 million since he entered the race this summer. Mr. Romney has also raised tens of millions of dollars.
The fast-paced video questions Mr. Romney's assertion that he is a ''conservative businessman,'' showing a picture of Mr. Obama looking in a mirror, only to see Mr. Romney's reflection. ''Nice try,'' the video says. It also features an old clip of Tim Russert, once the host of NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' asking Mr. Romney why, if his health care plan is good for Massachusetts, it would not be good for the country.
''It would,'' he says.
During a full day of retail events, Mr. Romney kept his focus mostly on the economy and the president. ''In some respects, the Obama economy is a 'Where's Waldo?' economy,'' Mr. Romney said. ''Finding a job, a good-paying job, in this economy is harder than finding Waldo in one of his books.''
He did not mention any of his rivals by name, but he did make sure to mention the Texas program that allows some children of illegal immigrants to qualify for in-state college tuition, which has posed a problem for Mr. Perry on the trail and in debates.
''I vetoed that measure,'' Mr. Romney said of a similar bill passed by the legislature in Massachusetts. ''Why in the world would we want taxpayers in the U.S. to be paying a tuition break, a tuition credit, for those who were here illegally?''
But later in the day, Mr. Romney faced questions on social issues at his town hall in Hopkinton, from voters who pressed him on same-sex marriage and abortion. After a young girl raised the subject, Mr. Romney said, ''I'm pro-life,'' adding, ''This is a tender and sensitive issue.''
Social issues were raised anew this weekend at the Value Voters Summit in Washington, where Mr. Romney's religion bubbled up. Bryan Fischer, a conservative activist whom Mr. Romney on Saturday accused of using ''poisonous language,'' responded in a blog post on Sunday, saying that ''I have done nothing but speak the truth about Mormonism, but apparently for someone of Mitt's political ilk, the truth itself is now toxic.''
Mr. Fischer said in the blog post that Mr. Romney ''imposed same-sex marriage on Massachusetts and the United States by executive fiat in 2004.''
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor who is also a Mormon, said the questions about Mr. Romney's religion were out of bounds and a distraction. He called the talk about Mr. Romney's religion a ''ridiculous sideshow'' and criticized Mr. Jeffress.
''It's unfortunate that one person is driving the narrative during the time when we have 15 million unemployed,'' Mr. Huntsman said on CNN. ''The fact that some moron can stand up and make a comment like that -- first of all it's outrageous, second of all that we're spending so much time discussing it makes it even worse.''
Some voters in New Hampshire agreed. Don Pelletier, a retiree from Concord, shook hands with Mr. Romney and wished him well on Monday afternoon during a stop at a country store in Hooksett. He said the discussion of the Mormon Church had no place on the presidential campaign trail.
''I see cheap shots coming from all over at Romney,'' Mr. Pelletier said. ''That's wrong.''
Mr. Huntsman did, however, take an indirect shot at Mr. Romney on foreign policy. Mr. Huntsman delivered a foreign policy address Monday that drew sharp distinctions with Mr. Romney, who has called for reversing spending cuts in the Defense Department budget and increasing investments in shipbuilding and missile defense.
''Simply advocating more ships, more troops and more weapons is not a viable path forward,'' Mr. Huntsman told an audience at Southern New Hampshire University in Hooksett. ''We need more agility, more intelligence and more economic engagement with the world.''
Republican Debate
WHEN Tuesday, 8 p.m. Eastern time
WHERE Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
PARTICIPANTS Michele Bachmann, Herman Cain, Newt Gingrich, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Ron Paul, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum
SPONSORS Bloomberg, The Washington Post, WBIN-TV
TV Bloomberg Television
ON THE WEB Live blogging and analysis: nytimes.com/politics

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney greeting voters on Monday at Robie's Country Store in Hooksett, N.H. His wife, Ann, stood next to him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



473 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: City Does Not Plan to Evict Protesters, Bloomberg Says

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR and THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, seemingly softening his language about the Occupy Wall Street protest, suggested on Monday that he did not anticipate an effort by the city to remove the demonstrators from a park in Lower Manhattan. 
''The bottom line is, people want to express themselves, and as long as they obey the laws, we'll allow them to,'' the mayor told reporters at the start of the city's 67th annual Columbus Day parade. ''If they break the laws, then we're going to do what we're supposed to do - enforce the laws.''
Asked how long he expected the protesters to remain in Zuccotti Park, Mr. Bloomberg said: ''I have no idea how much longer. I think part of it has probably to do with the weather.''
The mayor's spokesman, Stu Loeser, said Mr. Bloomberg's comments did not mark a change in his stance on the protest, which has been under way for more than three weeks. Indeed, the mayor has repeatedly spoken of the protest as an exercise of free speech. But on Friday, speaking during a weekly radio interview, he was sharply critical of the protesters' message, saying, ''What they're trying to do is take the jobs away from people working in this city.'' Asked then whether the protests had an end date, he simply said, ''We'll see what happens.''
The protesters were cheered by what they perceived as Mr. Bloomberg's change in tone on Monday, sending a message from the official @OccupyWallStreet Twitter account declaring, ''Bloomberg said we can stay indefinitely! Big win!''
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, speaking separately to reporters at the parade, said he had no intention of visiting the protesters. But he said: ''They have a right to protest; they have a right to their opinion. That's what makes a democracy work, and the frustration is felt all across this country.''
Asked whether the protest, which is viewed by some residents of Lower Manhattan as disruptive, should be shut down, the governor said: ''The right to protest and free speech is a big part of this democracy, and I'll leave that to the local officials. But I think the point of the frustration with the economy - not having jobs, not having opportunity - that is a sentiment that you hear not just on Wall Street, you'll hear it on Main Street all across this state and all across this nation.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); GOVERNORS (68%); EVICTION (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



474 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PROFILES IN SCIENCE SUSAN DESMOND-HELLMANN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1963 words

HEADLINE: An Innovator Shapes an Empire

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The phone call, at home one night last week, came from a student seeking donations for the University of California, San Francisco.
''Well,'' Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann told the caller, ''I'm actually the chancellor at U.C.S.F.''
The student, seemingly unaware that chancellor meant head of the university, kept up her pitch: The doctor and her husband had given $5,000 in the past, so how about another donation?
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann said they had already made another donation. The student kept trying. 
Describing the call to an auditorium full of professors, administrators and students at the university, Dr. Desmond-Hellmann laughed impishly -- but took delight in the student's determination.
''Good job!'' she said. ''And I'm hoping she actually Googles 'chancellor' to find out what that is after the call.''
The audience laughed, too. The unspoken part of the joke, most knew, was that other donation. The chancellor and her husband, Dr. Nicholas Hellmann, had recently given $1 million to the university.
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann, 54, has been chancellor for a little more than two years. She came to U.C.S.F. after a stunningly successful career in the pharmaceutical industry. University officials invited her to apply for the job. She is the first woman to lead the university, and the first chancellor from outside the ivory towers of academia.
The university is widely regarded among scientists as one of the nation's crown jewels of biomedical research, and a birthplace of biotechnology and innovation. But the public knows it less well, and Dr. Desmond-Hellmann wants to make U.C.S.F. as famous as the Mayo Clinic. The school is undergoing an enormous expansion in a difficult economy, and as a physician and scientist, she hopes to raise it to an even higher plane. As a businesswoman, she is determined to make sure it has enough money to get there.
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann's years in pharmaceuticals left her, by her own account, ''very, very wealthy,'' with a fortune that she and her husband expect to give away. She could easily have retired. Instead, as the economy crumbled and public universities nationwide struggled with shrinking funds, she took on the daunting job of running a medical center and research university with 23,000 employees, two hospital complexes, dozens of clinics, 5,590 students, residents and postdoctoral fellows and a $3 billion budget.
She studied medicine at U.C.S.F. (she is a cancer specialist), met her husband there and took the job, she said, because she loves the place: ''With the potential impact you have as an educator and as somebody who could lead an institution like this, maybe I could help make a difference.'' Her vision for the university is to make it ''the world's pre-eminent health sciences innovator.'' That means ''unparalleled'' care for patients, brilliant faculty and staff paid enough to stay and fast translation of scientific discoveries into treatments.
U.C.S.F. has already received one of the federal government's largest grants to any university ($112 million over five years) for translational research, which turns basic-science discoveries into treatments for patients. Dr. Desmond-Hellmann wants an even stronger focus on those efforts, many of which are happening at the school's gleaming new building for stem-cell research and its enormous new waterfront campus, Mission Bay, which is becoming a medical and biotech empire.
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann hopes to supplement the usual sources of income like patient fees, grants and tuition by increasing collaborations between the university and the biotech companies that have sprung up in the Bay Area -- many of them spinoffs from research that began at the university.
To those who say this is the wrong time to set her sights so high, she points out that two phenomenally successful companies, Apple and Genentech, the biotech giant she helped run, were both started in 1976, when the economy was in the dumps.
A Proven Track Record
Coming from someone else, her ambitions might seem overblown. But not many people have her track record.
Before returning to the university, she spent 14 years at Genentech, where she last served as president of product development. The company produced an extraordinary lineup of drugs during her time, including the cancer drugs Avastin and Herceptin -- both of which represented new approaches to fighting the disease -- and became America's leading maker of cancer treatments.
Her name has appeared on every manner of ''most'' list: most powerful innovators, most powerful women, most highly paid women.
She left the company in 2009 after Roche acquired Genentech, though she said Roche had wanted her to stay. By that point her compensation (base pay, stock and other payments) was more than $8 million a year. She also owned hundreds of thousands of shares of Genentech stock, worth $95 a share.
At U.C.S.F., her starting salary was $450,000 a year.
Trim and energetic, she works hard, and plays hard to clear her head. She is a skier and gung-ho mountain biker whose goal for this past summer was ''no stitches'' (she made it). On weekdays, she gets up at 4:45 a.m. to run.
''You read her C.V. and you don't expect what you see, which is that she is disarming,'' said Dr. Robert M. Wachter, the university's chief of hospital medicine. ''She is so nice that people may wonder whether she is tough enough. She is. When she came back to U.C.S.F., she quickly looked at the landscape and said, 'We have to make some tough changes about money.' ''
Declines in state money and Medicare payments will cost the university $38 million this year, and huge numbers of new Medicaid patients will be another drain.
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann's initial strategy was to cut administrative jobs, though she says the university cannot cut its way to excellence. Last year, the changes saved $29.3 million -- but did cost 270 jobs, via layoffs and by job openings left unfilled.
''The general consensus is that it's the right thing to do,'' Dr. Wachter said of these decisions, but added, ''They're not wildly popular.''
Among traditionalists, her ideas about medical education may raise some eyebrows.
''I predict that 10 years from now, the entire curriculum will be different in medical school,'' Dr. Desmond-Hellmann said. For one thing, she suggested, the time spent in school could be shortened. Now, someone who wants to specialize in surgery and research must spend about 15 years in training.
''Is that sustainable?'' she asked. ''I'm not an expert on medical education, but I think a question that needs to be asked is, 'What does college look like?' '' Some schools already offer shorter programs, in which students earn college and medical degrees in six or seven years, instead of eight.
''What I see increasingly is customization,'' Dr. Desmond-Hellmann said.
For instance, for students who want to work in rural areas with poor and underserved patients, a university program helps them prepare early in their training. She said such programs let students ''customize so their learning is appropriate, and follow their passion.''
She recalled describing her ideal doctor to someone she was interviewing to become vice dean for education. ''I said, 'If I just do a thought experiment, I want my doctor to be really smart, punctual, thoughtful, funny, have a good bedside manner, have a sense of the community and the population, because of health care reform and the costs of care, and I'd really like them to walk on water. Could you produce those at large volume and low cost?' ''
Learning to Lead at Home
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann grew up in Reno, Nev., one of seven children. Her father was a pharmacist and her mother an English teacher. She and her siblings went to college in Reno because it was affordable, and she needed student loans for medical school there. U.C.S.F. was a whole new world.
''I felt kind of like an underdog when I first showed up here,'' she said. ''I often laugh that Nick and I gravitated to each other and became friends, because around the table as we were interns, there was a lot of Harvard and Yale and U.C.S.F. and Stanford, and there were two notable state-school kids -- Nevada and Kentucky.''
She and Nicholas Hellmann married in 1987. In 1989, they moved to Uganda for two years to study and treat patients with H.I.V. or cancer. They went because of the values they had both formed from growing up in large Catholic families and attending Catholic schools. ''I think that what we got from our family life and our education is this sort of really strong sense of purpose and wish to make a contribution,'' Dr. Desmond-Hellmann said.
She took her management style from her upbringing, too. Her parents were always looking for their children's strengths, she said: ''Great managers figure out what people are really good at and what gets in their way, and they pull out the best in people.''
After Uganda, she and her husband moved to Kentucky, where Dr. Desmond-Hellmann treated cancer patients.
They chose not to have children.
''I was surrounded by young kids as I was growing up, so I didn't really feel like I needed to have the experience of babies,'' Dr. Desmond-Hellmann said.
In Kentucky, she found herself having to tell too many patients that chemotherapy had stopped working and there were no more drugs to try. When her husband was offered a job at Bristol-Myers, in Connecticut, she went to work there, too, hoping that she could help develop new cancer drugs. She worked on the cancer drug Taxol, and discovered that she loved drug development.
''It was like I had been training my whole life for that job,'' she said. Her next move was to Genentech, in 1995. At the time, the company had no cancer drugs, but had begun developing them. She soon became part of that work.
Arthur D. Levinson, then head of Genentech, said the company prided itself on a culture that stressed basic research, innovation, breakthrough drugs and, above all, the well-being of patients. Dr. Desmond-Hellmann fit right in, he said.
Dr. Desmond-Hellmann was ''just wired'' to put patients first, he said -- and also had rigorous training in statistics, as well as medicine and oncology, that enabled her to look at data on new drugs and pick winners and losers.
She was also able to tell researchers when their projects were being given low priority or dropped.
''She's a very nice person, so this did not come naturally to her,'' Dr. Levinson said, adding that if he had any criticism of her in her early days there, it was that she was a bit too soft. ''But she got it quickly. She became a tough leader, tough in a positive sense. She was willing to make tough calls without much difficulty.''
He promoted her quickly and repeatedly. ''I knew she was the kind of leader who could go very far,'' Dr. Levinson said.
Profiles in Science: This is the third article in an occasional series about leaders in science.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2011; October 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about Susan Desmond-Hellmann, chancellor of the University of California, San Francisco, misstated her position on balancing budgetary concerns with academic goals. Dr. Desmond-Hellmann's initial strategy has been to cut administrative jobs, though she says the university cannot cut its way to excellence. It is not the case that she said the university can cut its way to excellence.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about Susan Desmond-Hellmann, chancellor of the University of California, San Francisco, misidentified the institution where she earned a medical degree. It is the University of Nevada, Reno -- not U.C.S.F., where she completed her clinical training.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (D1)
GOALS: The chancellor wants U.C.S.F. to be as famous as the Mayo Clinic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 FIRSTHAND: Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann spent two years, starting in 1989, taking care of patients in Uganda. (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); CANCER (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); BUDGETS (71%); BIOMEDICINE (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); ONCOLOGY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); MAYO CLINIC (59%)

PERSON: SUSAN DESMOND-HELLMANN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



475 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Prostate Test Finding Leaves a Swirl of Confusion

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
For men living with a diagnosis of prostate cancer, the news that the P.S.A. test does more harm than good has been unsettling and confusing.
After all, that is the test that first led to their diagnosis - and, often, a painful and traumatic course of treatment.
And now they tell us it doesn't work? 
''You will find mixed opinions from those of us who had to deal with it,'' said a 78-year-old man from Boston who was left impotent and incontinent after his prostate was removed 11 years ago. ''My current feeling is not anger; it's sadness that I probably made the wrong choices and the consequences were both negative and not expected.'' (He and another man quoted in this column asked not to be identified.)
This week, the United States Preventive Services Task Force is expected to announce its recommendation against routine testing for blood levels of prostate-specific antigen, the protein that can be a signal of prostate cancer. The panel says research shows that over all, the test does not save lives and leads to unnecessary surgery and radiation treatment for slow-growing cancers that would never have caused harm. As for faster-growing, invasive cancers, there's no proof that P.S.A. tests and earlier treatment offer any overall benefit.
Many men do remain convinced that the test saved their lives by helping their doctors detect cancer in its earliest stages. But others are now left second-guessing their decisions, questioning a medical system that pressured them not only to undergo screening, but to be treated aggressively once cancer was detected.
Ten years ago, several doctors urged William Lewis of Washington, now 69, to have his prostate removed after a spike in his P.S.A. levels led to a biopsy and a diagnosis of cancer. But his own research led him to a ''watchful waiting'' program at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where he now undergoes regular checkups and biopsies to make sure his cancer hasn't progressed.
''My urologist said, 'Definitely prostatectomy,' as did other people,'' Mr. Lewis said. But ''absolutely nothing has showed up that would suggest treatment is in order.
''A lot of people are living with prostate cancer not knowing it and never knowing they have it,'' he went on. ''It's just a common fact of life for men.''
But doctors are divided about when to recommend watchful waiting. The decision can be guided by an indicator called the Gleason score, a measure of the aggressiveness of the cancer found in a biopsy, but there is often disagreement about how to care for men whose scores are in the middle - neither highly aggressive nor probably not aggressive. In addition, the biopsy process itself is imprecise; a standard ''12-core biopsy'' gives information about only one three-thousandth of the prostate, says Dr. Eric Klein of the Cleveland Clinic. According to research at Johns Hopkins, staging and grading mistakes occur in about 20 percent of specimens.
''You can't be sure that even if you've found a cancer that is low-grade and seems innocuous that you haven't missed a more aggressive cancer,'' he said. ''That's the major limitation that leads to patient and family and physician uncertainty about who can be watched and who can't be watched.''
Bill Murin, a 67-year-old retired university professor in Racine, Wis., had prostate surgery after a spike in his P.S.A. led to a cancer diagnosis when he was 64. He said that his recovery had been ''satisfactory,'' and that he had been able to resume his sex life with the help of Viagra.
He says he would probably make the same choices if he had it to do over again.
''There's no parallel universe, unfortunately,'' he said, adding:
''Psychologically, when someone looks you in the eye and says you have cancer, your immediate reaction is 'Get this damn thing out of here.' I'm not sure I'd be brave enough to undergo the watchful waiting.''
Other patients say the problem is not the screening test but the way some doctors react to it.
''There is still a lot of pressure to just get it out,'' said a 48-year-old man who received his diagnosis two years ago after an elevated P.S.A. result. ''The more I've learned about this in the last two years, I'm shocked at how urgently my initial urologist pushed for treatment. I'm really unhappy about this, and I think there are some major problems with the culture and the pressure.''
Instead, the man enrolled in a watchful waiting program in Seattle, changed his diet and lost weight. His P.S.A. levels have dropped and subsequent biopsies have not detected cancer.
''The newer thinking is that cancer doesn't always have the same trajectory; it's not always that aggressive,'' he said. ''Why put men in the situation where they have to make this decision if they don't need to?''
Timothy Bartik, 57, an economist in Kalamazoo, Mich., did his own research and believes that the data support P.S.A. testing, particularly for younger men. He had his prostate removed in March after getting an elevated reading, followed by a biopsy that showed he had cancer. After surgery, he learned the cancer was slightly more aggressive than the biopsy had suggested.
''You have to weigh probabilities,'' he said. ''You have to accept that there's no certainty. Ideally, you'd have a great test that would tell you much more precisely what your chances are.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CONSEQUENCES: Some men said they felt pressure to undergo screening, and to be treated aggressively with prostate surgery once cancer was detected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE POWELL/UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO MEDICAL CENTER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTATE DISEASE (94%); PROSTATE CANCER (91%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); CANCER (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); UROLOGY (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); INCONTINENCE (70%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (67%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



476 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Big Temptations For Wells Fargo

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and GEORGE HAY

 BODY:
Will Wells Fargo get hooked on Wall Street? The bank, based in California and led by John G. Stumpf, mostly has resisted the siren call to put down stakes in Lower Manhattan. But Wells Fargo kept Wachovia's fledgling investment bank when it bought its struggling rival three years ago, and the company is still hiring. A couple of senior M.& A. bankers joined just last week. But getting much bigger would come at a price.
It's easy to see the allure. With $1.2 trillion in assets, Wells is the fourth-largest American bank but the only one still lacking a sizable Wall Street presence. The extra options for raising capital for clients, beyond just lending, give its peers a competitive advantage. The ability to underwrite stocks and bonds and to offer strategic advice would level the playing field and increase fee income. But building a decent-size operation takes time and money. 
The other option is to buy. On paper, Morgan Stanley appears to be a good fit. It would bring a top-notch investment bank and, if it can avoid antitrust issues, create the country's largest brokerage.
Trimming 15 percent of the combined brokerage costs would be worth about $22 billion to shareholders, once taxed, discounted and capitalized. That is about three-quarters of Morgan Stanley's currently deflated market value.
Integrating the two cultures would be hard enough. But there is another problem, if Wells opted to expand in investment banking. The bigger the unit gets, the more it would need a good trading operation. The greater the presence a bank can have in the flow of daily buying and selling, the theory goes, the better it can price deals and place the paper.
That introduces new risk and means bulking up on inventory, which in turn eats up capital. And with more clients doing more business around the world, Wells might also need more international reach. Combined, that could make it a systemically important bank, requiring an extra amount of capital that would increase the cost of doing business.
For now, Wells seems content to limit its investment banking presence. But until Wachovia came along, executives from Wells dismissed owning any business east of the Mississippi, claiming it might as well be in China. And as others have discovered, Wall Street is a tantalizing temptation before it becomes a debilitating addiction.
The Bill for Dexia
Belgium's cost to bail out Dexia could be higher than meets the eye. After a weekend of frantic negotiations, Brussels is to pay 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion) to take the Belgian assets of Dexia, the vanquished lender, into public ownership. If that was it, the direct costs to the state would be only 1 percent of its gross domestic product.
It might seem that Belgium is getting a bargain. Dexia Bank Belgium's book value was 7.9 billion euros in June. But local accounting rules allow Dexia to avoid marking so-called available-for-sale assets to market. Including these losses, the bank's book value in June was 5.7 billion euros. Given the recent market turmoil, the current mark-to-market value could be less than the Belgian government is paying.
Then there is the question of whether the remainder of Dexia, in which Belgium still holds a 5.7 percent stake, has enough capital. The plan is to sell some operations. After the anticipated disposals, it would still have 60 billion euros of risk-weighted assets. These would require at least 6 billion euros of capital to create a 10 percent core Tier 1 buffer against losses.
Part of this will depend on whether Dexia can sell assets above book value. But a lot will depend on whether Belgium is allowed to keep sweeping available-for-sale losses under the rug.
The new Basel rules say no, but there is always the possibility of a workaround. If, at the end of the process, there is a capital hole, it's unclear how Belgium and France would plug it. But, imagine for the sake of argument, Brussels faces another 3 billion euro bill.
Finally, Belgium is liable for guaranteeing 60.5 percent of Dexia's financing for 10 years, or 54 billion euros in total. Add it up and the total cost to Belgian taxpayers, in a real disaster, could be 17 percent of gross domestic product, on top of last year's 96 percent. It is no wonder that Moody's is weighing whether to downgrade the country's sovereign debt, and that Belgian 10-year debt yields have jumped to 4.1 percent from 3.6 percent in a week. ANTONY CURRIE and GEORGE HAY
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John G. Stumpf, the chief of Wells Fargo, the fourth-largest American bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (77%); EURO (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (97%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); DEXIA SA (81%); DEXIA BANQUE BELGIQUE SA (60%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (97%); MS (NYSE) (83%); DEXB (BRU) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



477 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: China's Sovereign Wealth Fund Tries to Bolster Stocks of Major Banks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Trying to stem a steep decline in the stock prices of China's four main banks, the nation's sovereign wealth fund started buying their shares Monday and plans to buy more in the coming year.
That word, disclosed by the banks late in Monday's trading session, helped their share prices rebound somewhat on the Hong Kong stock exchange. 
Chinese bank stocks have lost a third of their value so far this year, with most of the losses since August. Compared with the battered stocks of many European banks, the decline does not reflect worries about Greek bonds -- Chinese banks have very few -- but rather about the effects of stricter capital requirements by China's regulators and worries about possible losses on domestic loans.
The China Banking Regulatory Commission is putting heavy pressure on banks to raise capital. The regulators want to prepare banks to meet rising international standards for capital adequacy and to strengthen the banks' balance sheets against possible losses on big loans issued to Chinese companies and local governments during China's economic stimulus program in 2009 and 2010.
The Agricultural Bank of China, one of the four main banks that together control two-thirds of the Chinese banking market, has already said that it intends to raise more capital next year. And investors have been watching for moves to sell shares by the other three: the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank and the Bank of China.
''One of the things depressing the share prices is that the existing public shareholders worry that they're going to get diluted,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
According to filings the four banks made with the Hong Kong stock exchange, the share purchases on Monday were made by Central Huijin, a holding company that is part of the country's sovereign wealth fund, the China Investment Corporation. Central Huijin has a tangled history that has complicated China's ability to regulate its banks.
Central Huijin already owns stakes in the banks that range from 35.4 percent of Industrial and Commercial Bank to 67.6 percent of the Bank of China. The purchases Monday will not alter these percentages significantly.
The central bank set up Central Huijin in 2003 to bail out the country's banks after a surge in losses on loans issued to politically connected, state-owned enterprises in the mid-1990s.
Central Huijin was transferred in 2007 to the China Investment Corporation, which had been set up to invest part of the country's foreign exchange reserves in the stock market. The move was controversial, in part because it involved issuance of bonds to compensate the central bank for the transfer. China Investment promised that it would collect enough dividends from the banks to make payments on the bonds.
As a result of that promise, the big Chinese banks have been paying out roughly half of their earnings in dividends since then, compared with only 10 to 12 percent for many industrial companies. That has slowed the banks' ability to comply with regulators' demands to build capital reserves.
The high dividend payouts, in conflict with the need to raise capital, have started to prompt grumbling by Chinese bank executives. Xiang Junbo, the chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China, was quoted in July by The Study Times, a weekly publication controlled by the Communist Party School, as saying that the country's big banks ''should avoid high levels of dividend payments while we are frequently going to the market for fund-raising exercises.''
But Lou Jiwei, the chairman of the China Investment Corporation, has said that Central Huijin needs 300 million renminbi a day, or $47 million, just to pay the interest on the bonds issued to compensate the central bank. Central Huijin cannot easily sell its shares in the banks to raise money for servicing that debt, because this would increase the number of shares in public circulation and could further depress the stock prices.
The announcements by the big four banks reversed a slide in their share prices earlier in the day. They posted small gains by the close, except for China Construction Bank; it fell 0.21 percent on the day, closing at 4.83 Hong Kong dollars, but was up from earlier lows.
Another worry for the banks lies in their exposure to special borrowing units of local governments. China's National Audit Office said at the end of June that those loans -- mainly for infrastructure projects that helped China spend its way out of the global economic downturn -- had totaled 10.7 trillion renminbi, or $1.7 trillion, by the end of 2010.
The debt burden from those loans is putting heavy pressure on local governments to raise the fees for water, sewage and other municipal services that were greatly improved with the loans, but which continue to be provided to the public for less than their cost, Mr. Lardy, of the Peterson Institute, said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China Construction Bank is one of four banks that control two-thirds of the banking market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (91%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BOND ISSUES (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (91%); INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (85%); CHINA INVESTMENT & FINANCE GROUP LTD (85%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (59%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (59%); ALLANFIELD GROUP PLC (52%)

TICKER: 1288 (HKSE) (91%); 1398 (HKSE) (85%); 1226 (HKSE) (85%); 3988 (HKSE) (59%); 0939 (HKSE) (59%); ALF (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



478 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Japan Courts The Money In Reactors

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Even as Japan plans to phase out nuclear power as too risky for domestic use, the government is supporting a new push by Japanese industry to sell nuclear power technology to other countries.
Japanese industrial conglomerates, with the cooperation of the government in Tokyo, are renewing their pursuit of multibillion-dollar projects, particularly in smaller energy-hungry countries like Vietnam and Turkey. The effort comes despite criticism within Japan by environmental groups and opposition politicians.
It may seem a stretch for Japan to acclaim its nuclear technology overseas while struggling at home to contain the nuclear meltdowns that displaced more than 100,000 people. But Japan argues that its latest technology includes safeguards not present at the decades-old reactors at the stricken Fukushima Daiichi plant, which continues to leak radiation.
While Fukushima Daiichi could not withstand the magnitude 9 quake and the tsunami that ravaged much of Japan's northeast coast in March, Japanese officials argue, their nation has learned valuable lessons -- and has good nuclear track record withstanding most earlier earthquakes. 
''Many countries of the world are seriously exploring the use of nuclear power, and we have assisted them in improving nuclear safety,'' Japan's new prime minister, Yoshihiko Noda, said at an address at the United Nations General Assembly recently. ''We will continue to answer to the interest of those countries.''
Mr. Noda's government considers foreign reactor projects a way to help stimulate Japan's export-led economy, which had been struggling even before March's natural and nuclear disasters. Tokyo's backing-- including financial assistance to the customer countries -- has become critical in negotiating deals, especially as global confidence in nuclear safety has faltered in Fukushima's wake.
The World Nuclear Association, a trade industry group, says the world's stock of 443 nuclear reactors could more than double in the next 15 years, but analysts say that expansion will require strong support from the governments on both sides of any deal.
In early September, after a six-month hiatus following the earthquake, the Japanese government restarted talks with Vietnamese officials on a 1 trillion yen ($13 billion) project to build two reactors in southern Vietnam. The terms include possible Japanese financial aid.
The project would involve a new government-supported company whose largest shareholder is Tokyo Electric Power, operator of the damaged Fukushima Daiichi plant. The industrial conglomerates Toshiba and Hitachi, which supplied reactors to the Fukushima plant, are also investors. Ichiro Takekuro, a former executive of Tokyo Electric, is the president of the new company, called International Nuclear Energy Development of Japan.
The Vietnam project, if it proceeds, would join a roster of about two dozen other nuclear plant projects that Japanese makers are bidding or working on in countries including the United States, China, Turkey and Lithuania.
Japan's nuclear drive is a contrast to the recent announcement by Siemens, Europe's largest engineering conglomerate, that it would stop building nuclear power plants. Siemens, with headquarters in Munich, is responding to Germany's decision this year to phase out nuclear power -- largely in reaction to Japan's calamity.
But makers of nuclear reactors from other countries, including Areva of France, General Electric of the United States, Russia's state-owned Rostacom and several government-backed Chinese conglomerates like China National Nuclear, are pursuing new contracts. Within Japan, Tokyo's effort has already drawn protest from nuclear opponents.
''The Japanese government's promotion of nuclear exports is clearly a double standard and a mistake,'' the environmental group Friends of the Earth Japan, said in September.
The opposition Liberal Democratic Party has also called for more debate on the nuclear export initiative by Mr. Noda and the ruling Democratic Party, although opinion in both parties remains divided.
''Some people are asking: Why is Japan trying to export something it rejected at home?'' said Itsunori Onodera, a Liberal Democratic lawmaker and director of a parliamentary foreign policy panel charged with approving bilateral nuclear agreements. ''Even if Japan ultimately does decide to continue nuclear exports, there needs to be more debate on the issue.''
But analysts say Japan's top three nuclear engineering companies -- Hitachi, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Toshiba -- which had combined profit in their energy and infrastructure businesses of about 242 billion yen ($3.14 billion) in the latest fiscal year, are keener than ever to look overseas.
Only about one in five of Japan's 54 reactors -- which previously met about 30 percent of Japan's electricity needs -- is still in service. The rest were damaged by the tsunami, are still being put through routine tests, or have not been restarted after such tests because of local opposition.
It is unclear when any will restart. Adding to the uncertainty, on Oct. 4 a reactor in Genkai, in southern Japan, went into automatic shutdown because of problems with its cooling system. And because the government has said it will be difficult for new reactors to be built, a gradual phase-out of nuclear power is inevitable, as old reactors are retired.
But Japan is still intent on keeping industrial exports afloat at a time when the country's export-led economy faces strong headwinds: a strong yen that makes Japanese goods and services expensive on world markets, post-Fukushima energy shortfalls and stiffening competition from Asian industrial rivals.
Expensive projects like new reactors, often accompanied by ancillary business for utilities in fuel operations and maintenance, remain particularly attractive to Japanese commerce officials.
Last year, Japan's nuclear exports totaled 15 billion yen. The ruling Democratic Party had made the expansion of nuclear exports a centerpiece of its economic growth strategy before March. A trip by the former prime minister, Naoto Kan, to Vietnam last October, which gave the country a leg-up in negotiations, was seen as an early triumph.
And when Mr. Kan himself tried to shut down efforts to continue nuclear exports in July, many within his own party urged him to reconsider. If anything, Mr. Kan's successor and fellow Democrat, Mr. Noda, is more actively promoting nuclear exports than Mr. Kan did. The trade minister under Mr. Noda, Yukio Edano, who now oversees Japan's nuclear policy, had been a vocal supporter of continued nuclear exports.
Vietnam says it is happy that the deal is back on the table. Vietnam's ambassador to Japan, Nguyen Phu Binh, told the Mainichi newspaper in late August that he wanted to see construction proceed and believed Japan would ''use the Fukushima crisis to learn important lessons.''
Still, some Japanese companies have been forced to withdraw their nuclear bids in the wake of Fukushima.
Toshiba and Tokyo Electric withdrew from a proposed effort to expand the nuclear South Texas Project south of Houston, after the operator NRG Energy said it would scuttle the plan in light of the Fukushima crisis.
The Toshiba-Tokyo Electric team also abandoned a bid to build Turkey's second nuclear power plant after the Turkish government indicated that it was interested in a different kind of technology than the boiling water reactors that are Toshiba's specialty. Older versions of boiling water reactors were in use at Fukushima.
But that could benefit yet another Japanese company, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, which specializes in so-called pressurized water reactors, a technology in which Turkey has shown interest. Mitsubishi has already won contracts to build three nuclear reactors in the United States, two in Texas and one in Virginia.
Japanese politicians, however, have stalled some potential overseas nuclear projects. Parliament recently postponed the approval of a nuclear agreement with Jordan that could allow Japan to bid on a planned nuclear power plant there.
One reason: the proposed site is far away from any large body of water, giving the plant no reliable way to cool its reactors to prevent a meltdown in the case of an emergency.
''After Fukushima,'' Mr. Onodera said, ''we felt that could be a problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A model of a reactor at an exhibition on nuclear power in Hanoi, Vietnam. Japan wants to help build reactors there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOANG DINH NAM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (88%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); POLITICS (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); TSUNAMIS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (74%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (74%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (74%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (74%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: YOSHIHIKO NODA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%); NORTHEAST USA (71%) JAPAN (99%); VIET NAM (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIETNAM (79%); LITHUANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



479 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Benefits of Foreign Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Foreign Aid Faces Major Cutbacks in Budget Crisis'' (front page, Oct. 4) worried me because, in my eight years as a global health ambassador, I have learned that we live in an interconnected world. 
In 13 trips around the world, I have personally seen that defeating public health threats like malaria, H.I.V./AIDS and tuberculosis and empowering reproductive health do not just enrich lives abroad, but also have a direct impact on the quality of American lives at home.
At less than 1 percent of the federal budget, investments in foreign aid strengthen the United States economy. Nearly 50 percent of American exports go to the developing world. One in three domestic manufacturing jobs depends on these exports. Such statistics are critical when, in my home state of Tennessee alone, unemployment is nearly 10 percent.
By investing in public health, American taxpayers are giving men and women the chance to live more productive lives and participate in the global economy.
And when that happens, everyone -- from Mombasa to Manhattan -- benefits.
ASHLEY JUDD Franklin, Tenn., Oct. 6, 2011
The writer is the actress and a board member of PSI, a global health organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (77%); MALARIA (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



480 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: The Milquetoast Radicals

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The U.S. economy is probably going to stink for a few more years. It is beset by short-term problems (low consumer demand, uncertain housing prices, too much debt) and long-term problems (wage stagnation, rising health care costs, eroding human capital).
Realistically, not much is going to be done to address the short-term problems, but we can at least use this winter of recuperation to address the country's underlying structural ones. Do tax reform, fiscal reform, education reform and political reform so that when the economy finally does recover the prosperity is deep, broad and strong. 
Unfortunately, the country has been wasting this winter of recuperation. Nothing of consequence has been achieved over the past two years. Instead, there have been a series of trivial sideshows. It's as if people can't keep their minds focused on the big things. They get diverted by scuffles that are small, contentious and symbolic.
Take the Occupy Wall Street movement. This uprising was sparked by the magazine Adbusters, previously best known for the 2004 essay, ''Why Won't Anyone Say They Are Jewish?'' -- an investigative report that identified some of the most influential Jews in America and their nefarious grip on policy.
If there is a core theme to the Occupy Wall Street movement, it is that the virtuous 99 percent of society is being cheated by the richest and greediest 1 percent.
This is a theme that allows the people in the 99 percent to think very highly of themselves. All their problems are caused by the nefarious elite.
Unfortunately, almost no problem can be productively conceived in this way. A group that divides the world between the pure 99 percent and the evil 1 percent will have nothing to say about education reform, Medicare reform, tax reform, wage stagnation or polarization. They will have nothing to say about the way Americans have overconsumed and overborrowed. These are problems that implicate a much broader swath of society than the top 1 percent.
They will have no realistic proposal to reduce the debt or sustain the welfare state. Even if you tax away 50 percent of the income of those making between $1 million and $10 million, you only reduce the national debt by 1 percent, according to the Tax Foundation. If you confiscate all the income of those making more than $10 million, you reduce the debt by 2 percent. You would still be nibbling only meekly around the edges.
The 99-versus-1 frame is also extremely self-limiting. If you think all problems flow from a small sliver of American society, then all your solutions are going to be small, too. The policy proposals that have been floating around the Occupy Wall Street movement -- a financial transfer tax, forgiveness for student loans -- are marginal.
The Occupy Wall Street movement may look radical, but its members' ideas are less radical than those you might hear at your average Rotary Club. Its members may hate capitalism. A third believe the U.S. is no better than Al Qaeda, according to a New York magazine survey, but since the left no longer believes in the nationalization of industry, these ''radicals'' really have no systemic reforms to fall back on.
They are not the only small thinkers. President Obama promises not to raise taxes on the bottom 98 percent. The Occupy-types celebrate the bottom 99 percent. Republicans promise not to raise taxes on the bottom 100 percent. Through these and other pledges, leaders of all three movements are hedging themselves in. They are severely limiting the scope of their proposed solutions.
The thing about the current moment is that the moderates in suits are much more radical than the pierced anarchists camping out on Wall Street or the Tea Party-types.
Look, for example, at a piece Matt Miller wrote for The Washington Post called ''The Third Party Stump Speech We Need.'' Miller is a former McKinsey consultant and Clinton staffer. But his ideas are much bigger than anything you hear from the protesters: slash corporate taxes and raise energy taxes, aggressively use market forces and public provisions to bring down health care costs; raise capital requirements for banks; require national service; balance the budget by 2018.
Other economists, for example, have revived the USA Tax, first introduced in 1995 by Senators Sam Nunn and Pete Domenici. This would replace the personal income and business tax regime with a code that allows unlimited deduction for personal savings and business investment. It's a consumption tax through the back door, which would clean out loopholes and weaken lobbyists.
Don't be fooled by the cliches of protest movements past. The most radical people today are the ones that look the most boring. It's not about declaring war on some nefarious elite. It's about changing behavior from top to bottom. Let's occupy ourselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); TAX REFORM (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



481 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: This Time, It Really Is Different

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
The title of the white paper is, admittedly, a mouthful: ''The Way Forward: Moving From the Post-Bubble, Post-Bust Economy to Renewed Growth and Competitiveness.'' It was commissioned by the New America Foundation, which hoped that it might ''re-center the political debate to better reflect the country's deep economic problems,'' according to Sherle Schwenninger, the director of the foundation's Economic Growth Program. Its authors are Daniel Alpert, a managing partner of Westwood Capital; Robert Hockett, a professor of financial law at Cornell and a consultant to the New York Federal Reserve; and Nouriel Roubini, who is, well, Nouriel Roubini, whose consistently bearish views have been consistently right. It is scheduled to be released on Wednesday.
I don't know that anything at this point could re-center the political debate, so unyielding are the two parties. But as Congress prepares to take steps, through the deliberations of the already deadlocked supercommittee, that will likely further wound our ailing economy, ''The Way Forward'' ought to at least give our politicians pause. 
Its analysis of our problems is sobering. Its proposed solutions are far more ambitious than anything being talked about in Washington. And its prognosis, if we continue on the current path, is grim. ''Unless we take dramatic steps, it will be Japan all over again,'' says Alpert. ''Continuous deflation, no economic growth, in and out of recessions. And high unemployment.'' Adds Hockett: ''It will be like the economic version of chronic fatigue syndrome. A low-grade fever all the time.''
The paper's central premise is something I've been hearing from Alpert for more than a year now: this time, it really is different. What he and his co-authors mean by that is that the bursting of the debt bubble three years ago was not just a severe example of the ups and downs that are an inevitable part of American capitalism. Rather, it was the ultimate consequence of the modern global economy. Chief among the changes that have taken place is the integration of China, Russia, India and other countries into the global economic mainstream. The developed world once had maybe 500 million workers. Today, say the authors, we've added another two billion people to the global work force.
That change alone has had a great deal to do with the stagnant wages, income inequality and the oversupply of labor in America that was masked by rising home prices and access to credit. The bursting of the bubble exposed how much the American economy depended on cheap credit. Now that the curtain has been pulled back, cheap credit alone can't fix our problems. The country is in a deflationary cycle that is very difficult to get out of: as wages decrease (or more workers become unemployed), people become afraid to spend. Assets like homes drop in value. Businesses react by lowering prices and laying off yet more workers -- which only triggers a new round of deflation. The only thing that doesn't change is the unsustainably high debt that was accrued during the bubble.
How can we break this cycle? Like most mainstream economists, Alpert, Hockett and Roubini roll their eyes at the calls for immediate government deficit reduction, which led to the creation of the supercommittee. Reducing government spending in the short term will only make things worse.
Instead, they believe that this is perhaps the best time in recent history for the government to take on a sustained infrastructure program, lasting from five to seven years, to create jobs and demand. ''Labor costs will never be lower,'' says Hockett. ''Equipment costs will never be lower. The cost of capital will never be lower. Why wait?'' Their plan calls for $1.2 trillion in spending -- not all by the government, but all overseen by government -- that would add 5.2 million jobs each year of the program. Alpert says that current ideas, like tax cuts, meant to stimulate the economy indirectly, just won't work for a problem as big the one we are facing. Indeed, so far, they haven't.
Their second solution involves restructuring the mortgage debt that is crushing so many Americans. It is a complex proposal that involves, for some homeowners, a bridge loan, for others, a reduction in mortgage principal, and, for others still, a plan that allows them to rent the homes they live in with the prospect of buying them back one day.
Finally, they call for a ''global rebalancing,'' which includes a radical change in the current dysfunctional relationship between creditor and debtor nations, and even a new global currency that would be administered by the International Monetary Fund.
It is impossible to do justice to ''The Way Forward'' in this space. It is rich in supporting data, deeply nuanced, with as clear-eyed a view of our economic predicament as I've ever read. Though it is not exactly beach reading, by academic standards it is quite accessible.
You can find it at http://newamerica.net/publications/policy/the--way--forward. You should read it -- even if your congressman doesn't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); HOME PRICES (50%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (50%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



482 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Regulators To Set Forth Volcker Rule

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The outlines of the Volcker Rule, one of the flagship provisions of the sweeping financial regulatory overhaul passed last year, will begin to take shape this week as regulators propose rules to limit the ability of most banks and Wall Street firms to use their own funds to buy and sell stocks, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The proposed rules would allow firms to do so in areas where regulators believe healthy markets would not exist without Wall Street's own trading, including the markets for government bonds, commodities and foreign currencies. And some otherwise-forbidden bets would be allowed only if they are used as a hedge, to keep a Wall Street firm from losing money on a transaction made to accommodate a customer's trading.
But most trades that Wall Street firms now make with their own money -- betting on an individual stock or a basket of shares, for example, or trading complex derivatives and swaps -- would be prohibited. The rules, part of the Dodd-Frank law, are intended to limit the ability of banks that have government guarantees and Federal Reserve borrowing privileges to take outsize risks. 
That principle seemed fairly simple when it was proposed last year by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who was a sharp critic of bank trading practices leading up to the financial crisis.
But as a 205-page draft of the proposed rules demonstrates, it is more difficult to draw up restrictions that rein in risky trading practices on Wall Street without also killing the ability of beneficial financial markets to operate.
People on both sides of the issue have found things to like and dislike. ''There are some encouraging signs in the draft,'' Bartlett Naylor, a financial policy advocate for Public Citizen, a pro-consumer group, said in an interview. But, he added, ''it doesn't completely eliminate some of the mischief we saw'' in the run-up to the financial crisis.
Randy Snook, executive vice president for business policies and practices at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the Wall Street trade group, says that while the draft contains some common-sense restrictions on trading by banks, ''our concern is that the list of permitted activities might be too narrow.''
The draft, which was dated Sept. 30 and published by the American Banker last week, might be significantly different from what is officially released later this month by the four agencies that are working on the rules: the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The F.D.I.C. on Tuesday will be the first to release a version of the rules for a 60-day public comment.
The draft document contains hundreds of questions on which the agencies will seek comments -- a sign that ''suggests disagreement among agencies'' on some of the details, according to lawyers at Davis Polk & Wardwell, which prepared a memo for clients last week summarizing the rules.
The most fundamental of those disagreements is likely to be where the line should be drawn between bona fide market-making activity, where a bank's traders offer to buy and sell a security to meet the trading desires of customers, and short-term trading with the bank acting as a principal in transactions solely for its own benefit.
That could be a particular problem in the corporate bond market, analysts say. Companies usually have one class of equity shares outstanding, and at any given time dozens of investment firms might be offering to buy and sell the stock. But the same company could have hundreds of different bonds outstanding, many of which trade infrequently, if at all.
If a bank's trading desk offers to take the other side of a transaction desired by a firm's customer, determining whether that is a short-term trade for the bank's own benefit or real market-making is a judgment call. According to the draft rules, the volume and risk associated with such a trade must be ''proportionate to historical customer liquidity and investment needs.''
That would suggest that a firm that has not previously bought and sold a security could not start doing so -- a stance that could significantly limit trading in many corporate bonds. And if investors believe it might be difficult in future years to trade a company's bonds, its ability to raise money to invest in its business could be difficult.
''If the market-making definition is too narrow, that kind of activity will be curtailed,'' Mr. Snook, of the securities industry group, said. ''That will cause the cost of financing to go up, restrict the ability of companies to get access to capital and therefore to hire and expand.''
Nr. Naylor of Public Citizen says there should be further limits on market-making activity, especially on ''the sort of thinly traded, esoteric instruments for which there is not natural demand'' -- like some of the collateralized debt obligations and other derivatives whose collapse contributed to the financial crisis.
Moody's said on Monday that if the draft that surfaced last week was not significantly changed before it became final, it would probably ''diminish the flexibility and profitability of banks' valuable market-making operations and place them at a competitive disadvantage to firms not constrained by the rule.''
Specifically, that means offshore banks and investment firms. There are restrictions against American banks moving otherwise-restricted operations offshore. But banks that do not have subsidiaries operating in the United States can continue to trade freely, both for themselves and on behalf of clients.
A lawyer at one large firm that specializes in the financial business, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she did not want to bring regulators' attention to her clients, said that that competitive disadvantage could begin to erode New York City's importance as a financial center and help the fortunes of offshore banks based in London, Dubai, Hong Kong and elsewhere.
Still others note that the proposed rules call for a significant increase in the level of internal compliance and oversight at banks, something that will discourage the casino culture that has long pervaded the proprietary trading operations of large banks. Large firms could be required to provide to regulators as many as 22 separate metrics or gauges of investment activity each month to prove that they are playing by the rules.
The regulatory staff who worked on the rules would not comment until the document is formally released.
Whether the proposed rules will satisfy Mr. Volcker, who called for the end of ''essentially speculative activities'' by banks, is unclear. He has declined to comment until an official version of the proposed rules is released.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and Paul Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman, at an event in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (80%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (80%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



483 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: A Dark Mood Surrounds Corporate Jet Makers

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS
AT 8 in the morning, you don't usually see so many men and women in dark suits unless it's a memorial service. Especially here, in sunny Las Vegas.
But there they were, 25,000 people representing the business aviation industry along with the extensive worldwide trade media gathered for the annual National Business Aviation Association convention, looking as grave as an assembly of undertakers who had just checked their 401(k)s. Their attire was basically just the conservative business dress suggested by convention organizers. But still, the mood on opening day seemed as dark as the apparel.
Bill Boisture, the chief executive of Hawker Beechcraft, set a dour tone early Sunday morning when he lamented the ''inconsistencies'' in the market outlook. He also denounced the Obama administration and some Democrats in Congress for being ''nothing short of irresponsible'' because they had uttered the words ''corporate jet'' with populist disdain, while calling for measures like reducing certain tax benefits for using private planes. 
The industry correctly points out that it accounts for a large number of domestic jobs -- 120,000 in manufacturing, down 20,000 since 2008 -- and a healthy chunk of the American export trade. But while he railed against Washington, Mr. Boisture was also thrown a bit on the defensive at a news conference when it was noted that Hawker had closed one of its Kansas plants and outsourced jobs abroad. ''We felt American industry was playing on an unlevel playing field,'' he responded.
Continuing the mood, Scott Ernest, the chief executive of Cessna Aircraft, said, ''The market is still very spotty'' for business aviation. Cessna, a big player in the light to midsize business jet market, was hard-hit by the recession and is hoping that its newest model, the Citation M2, a light jet, will help turn things around.
The industry, still dominated by American manufacturers, will sell about $230 billion in new business jets in the next 10 years, according to a forecast by Honeywell Aerospace released at the convention. This year, Honeywell said, manufacturers will deliver 600 to 650 new business jets, compared with 732 last year, and down sharply from 1,139 in the industry's peak year, 2008.
Still, as in many other things during this economic slump, the top luxury niche is doing well. Driven by sharply increased foreign sales, particularly in Asia, Brazil and the Middle East, and the growing need for more long-range international travel by domestic companies, the market for the biggest, most expensive business jets has remained strong.
In the last few years, large cabin, ultra-long-range business jets have been selling robustly, and will represent about 25 percent of projected sales through 2011, Honeywell said. For some companies with far-flung business, said Rob Wilson, the head of Honeywell's business and general aviation unit, a large cabin long-range plane allows a group of managers to travel efficiently and productively.
''The last trip I took on a large-cabin jet was over to India -- two days in India, then a day in Singapore, two days in China and back home, all in five days,'' he said in an interview.
Now, whenever I write that corporate aircraft, including charters, can make sense in many business situations, I get furious e-mails accusing me of going to the dark side. So let me hasten to say that I'm leaving Las Vegas in a middle seat on a commercial plane, in a row back by the restrooms, for a trip to New York that will take 12 hours, with connections.
But you should see some of the magnificent corporate jets on display here, on 630,000 square feet of space at Henderson Executive Airport, where conventiongoers are able to wander around the planes and even through them. There are 90 planes, but the star is the new Gulfstream G650, which can fly close to the speed of sound, has a range of 7,000 miles, and can fly as high as 51,000 feet. ''Think of it as having the sky to yourself,'' Gulfstream ads say.
Gulfstream, which has added 1,300 jobs this year, has orders for that plane that extend into 2017, and announced at the convention that it expected to deliver the first 10 or 12 next year. The price tag for each one is $64.5 million. Curiosity and demand are such that to look inside the G650 model here requires a reservation.
Not on display, but definitely on the market, are even grander airplanes like the so-called V.I.P. models of Boeing's commercial planes. Those planes are not included in the Honeywell forecast, which looked only at production-model business jets (not converted commercial airliners). The Boeing V.I.P. line includes a private version of the new 787 Dreamliner ($178.2 million, plus cabin outfitting starting at $80 million). Or how about your own private 747? Boeing can put you in one for about $299.5 million. (Cabin outfitting starts at $140 million).

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (71%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SALES PROJECTIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%)

COMPANY: HAWKER BEECHCRAFT CORP (56%); HONEYWELL AEROSPACE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS811219 OTHER ELECTRONIC & PRECISION EQUIPMENT REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (52%); NAICS488119 OTHER AIRPORT OPERATIONS (52%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (52%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



484 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: States Adding Drug Test as Hurdle for Welfare

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- As more Americans turn to government programs for refuge from a merciless economy, a growing number are encountering a new price of admission to the social safety net: a urine sample.
Policy makers in three dozen states this year proposed drug testing for people receiving benefits like welfare, unemployment assistance, job training, food stamps and public housing. Such laws, which proponents say ensure that tax dollars are not being misused and critics say reinforce stereotypes about the poor, have passed in states including Arizona, Indiana and Missouri.
In Florida, people receiving cash assistance through welfare have had to pay for their own drug tests since July, and enrollment has shrunk to its lowest levels since the start of the recession.
The law, the most far-reaching in the nation, provoked a lawsuit last month from the American Civil Liberties Union, arguing that the requirement represents an unreasonable search and seizure. 
The flood of proposals across the country, enabled by the strength of Republicans in many statehouses and driven by a desire to cut government spending, recall the politics of the '80s and '90s, when higher rates of drug abuse and references to ''welfare queens'' led to policies aimed at ensuring that public benefits were not spent to support addiction.
Supporters of the policies note that public assistance is meant to be transitional and that drug tests are increasingly common requirements for getting jobs.
''Working people today work very hard to make ends meet, and it just doesn't seem fair to them that their tax dollars go to support illegal things,'' said Ellen Brandom, a Republican state representative in Missouri.
The last three years, she sponsored legislation requiring testing of welfare recipients, and her bill was signed by Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, in July.
Advocates for the poor say the testing policies single out and vilify victims of the recession, disputing the idea that people on public assistance are more likely to use drugs. They also warn that to the extent that testing programs were successful in blocking some people from receiving benefits, the inability to get money for basic needs would aggravate drug addictions and increase demand for treatment.
At Operation Breakthrough, which provides day care services to low-income women here in Kansas City, Nicole, 22, who asked to be identified only by her first name, began to cry as she described trying to provide for her three children on a monthly welfare check of $342, plus $642 in food stamps.
Her electricity was cut off that morning, she said, which meant she could be evicted from her subsidized housing. The struggle to make ends meet while pursuing a health care degree was so consuming that the idea of taking drugs seemed ridiculous, she added.
Kimberley Davis, the director of social services for Operation Breakthrough, said the legislation sent a bad message. ''All this does is perpetuate the stereotype that low-income people are lazy, shiftless drug addicts and if all they did was pick themselves up from the bootstraps then the country wouldn't be in the mess it's in,'' Ms. Davis said.
Many states have already established ways to prevent people with known drug problems from receiving benefits -- about 20 states prohibit unemployment payments for anyone who lost a job because of drug use, and more than a dozen states refuse welfare payments to anyone convicted of a drug felony.
But, as tight state budgets have raised concern about government spending and fostered an impatience with aid to the poor, these efforts have gone further. Some point to federal statistics showing that unemployed adults are about twice as likely as employed adults to have used drugs in the previous month.
This year, 36 states considered drug testing for recipients of cash assistance from the major welfare program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures; 12 states proposed it for unemployment insurance; and some also considered making it a requirement for food stamps, home heating assistance and other programs.
At the same time, a number of cities, including Chicago and Flint, Mich., considered drug testing public housing residents. There have also been proposals in Congress for nationwide testing of welfare recipients.
To date, most of the proposals have failed to win support because of concerns about legality, stemming from a decade-old federal court ruling. That ruling struck down a Michigan law that mandated testing for all welfare recipients as a violation of the constitutional protection against unreasonable search and seizure.
Money has also been an issue -- the sides dispute whether the savings in unpaid benefits will eclipse the spending on administration, including the cost of testing.
''It really speaks to how the politics of the moment are dominating the policy conversation in the virtual absence of any evidence,'' said Harold Pollack, a professor at the University of Chicago whose research has indicated that people on welfare used drugs at rates similar to the general population.
In Arizona, under a 2009 program reauthorized this year, applicants are tested if they answer yes to a question about recent drug use. Only 16 out of 64,000 answered yes; 931 did not submit the form. The state estimated the savings on benefits had totaled $116,000.
The law in Florida, where the average recipient receives $253 a month for less than five months, is more expansive. It requires applicants to pay for their own drug tests, which the state says costs up to $40, and the state will reimburse those who pass. People who fail the test are disqualified for one year -- six months if they receive treatment -- and are reported to the Florida abuse hot line. Payments to children can continue through another person, like a grandparent.
Since July, 7,030 passed, 32 failed and 1,597 did not provide results, according to the state. The state said it does not track what drugs caused failures, but elsewhere the vast majority of cases involved marijuana.
Both sides have seized on the early results. Opponents argue that they suggest the number of drug users among people who receive public benefits is lower than the general population, and proponents say that it suggests that drug users are being deterred from taking the test.
A decline in the number of applicants appears to have accelerated since the testing started, according to a spokesman for the Florida Department of Children and Families.
State leaders have defended the program as ''nothing more than an additional eligibility criteria,'' noting that applicants are free to decline benefits if they do not want to be tested.
''To me it's real simple: money is going to go to the benefit of children, not to a parent using drugs,'' said Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican who campaigned on the proposal.
Arthenia L. Joyner, a Democratic leader in the State Senate who introduced a bill to repeal the law, said that now was not the right time for such policies.
''There are millions of people seeking aid from the state for the first time because they have lost their jobs and they still have children to feed and bills to pay,'' she said. ''These people now are having to suffer the indignity of having to undergo a drug test.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With the electricity shut off, Nariah, 3, ate a fruit cup for dinner last week in Kansas City, Mo. Her mother, Nicole, 22, may soon have to take a drug test to maintain state aid to her family. (A1)
 Nicole, right, a single mother, with Kimberley Davis, director of social services at Operation Breakthrough in Kansas City, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG TESTING (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); EVICTION (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LITIGATION (68%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (56%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



485 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Government Aims to Build A 'Data Eye In the Sky'

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
More than 60 years ago, in his ''Foundation'' series, the science fiction novelist Isaac Asimov invented a new science -- psychohistory -- that combined mathematics and psychology to predict the future.
Now social scientists are trying to mine the vast resources of the Internet -- Web searches and Twitter messages, Facebook and blog posts, the digital location trails generated by billions of cellphones -- to do the same thing.
The most optimistic researchers believe that these storehouses of ''big data'' will for the first time reveal sociological laws of human behavior -- enabling them to predict political crises, revolutions and other forms of social and economic instability, just as physicists and chemists can predict natural phenomena.
''This is a significant step forward,'' said Thomas Malone, the director of the Center for Collective Intelligence at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''We have vastly more detailed and richer kinds of data available as well as predictive algorithms to use, and that makes possible a kind of prediction that would have never been possible before.'' 
The government is showing interest in the idea. This summer a little-known intelligence agency began seeking ideas from academic social scientists and corporations for ways to automatically scan the Internet in 21 Latin American countries for ''big data,'' according to a research proposal being circulated by the agency. The three-year experiment, to begin in April, is being financed by the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity, or Iarpa (pronounced eye-AR-puh), part of the office of the director of national intelligence.
The automated data collection system is to focus on patterns of communication, consumption and movement of populations. It will use publicly accessible data, including Web search queries, blog entries, Internet traffic flow, financial market indicators, traffic webcams and changes in Wikipedia entries.
It is intended to be an entirely automated system, a ''data eye in the sky'' without human intervention, according to the program proposal. The research would not be limited to political and economic events, but would also explore the ability to predict pandemics and other types of widespread contagion, something that has been pursued independently by civilian researchers and by companies like Google.
Some social scientists and advocates of privacy rights are deeply skeptical of the project, saying it evokes queasy memories of Total Information Awareness, a post-9/11 Pentagon program that proposed hunting for potential attackers by identifying patterns in vast collections of public and private data: telephone calling records, e-mail, travel data, visa and passport information, and credit card transactions.
''I have Total Information Awareness flashbacks when things like this happen,'' said David Price, an anthropologist at St. Martin's University in Lacey, Wash., who has written about cooperation between social scientists and intelligence agencies. ''On the one hand it's understandable for a nation-state to want to track things like the outbreak of a pandemic, but I have to wonder about the total automation of this and what productive will come of it.''
Iarpa officials declined to discuss the research program, saying they are prohibited from giving interviews until contract awards are made later this year.
A similar project by their military sister organization, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, aims to automatically identify insurgent social networks in Afghanistan.
In its most recent budget proposal, the defense agency argues that its analysis can expose terrorist cells and other stateless groups by tracking their meetings, rehearsals and sharing of material and money transfers.
So far there have been only scattered examples of the potential of mining social media. Last year HP Labs researchers used Twitter data to accurately predict box office revenues of Hollywood movies. In August, the National Science Foundation approved funds for research in using social media like Twitter and Facebook to assess earthquake damage in real time.
The accessibility and computerization of huge databases has already begun to spur the development of new statistical techniques and new software to manage data sets with trillions of entries or more.
''Big data allows one to move beyond inference and statistical significance and move toward meaningful and accurate analyses,'' said Norman Nie, a political scientist who was a pioneering developer of statistical tools for social scientists and who recently formed a new company, Revolution Analytics, to develop software for the analysis of immense data sets.
Some scientists are skeptical. They cite the Pentagon's ill-fated Project Camelot in the 1960s, which also explored the possibility that social science could predict political and economic events, but was canceled in the face of widespread criticism by scholars.
The project focused on Chile, with the goal of developing methods for anticipating ''violent changes'' and offering ways of averting possible rebellions. It led to an uproar among social scientists, who argued that the study would compromise their professional ethics.
In recent years, however, academic opposition to military financing of research has faded. Since 2008, a Pentagon project called the Minerva Initiative has paid for an array of studies, including research at Arizona State University into political opponents of radical Muslims and a University of Texas study on the effects of climate change on African political stability.
Social scientists who cooperate with the research agencies contend that, on balance, the new technologies will have a positive effect.
''The result will be much better understanding of what is going on in the world, and how well local governments are handling the situation,'' said Sandy Pentland, a computer scientist at the M.I.T. Media Laboratory. ''I find this all very hopeful rather than scary, because this is perhaps the first real opportunity for all of humanity to have transparency in government.''
But advocates of privacy rights worry that public data and the related techniques developed in the new Iarpa project will be adapted for clandestine ''total information'' operations.
''These techniques are double-edged,'' said Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a privacy rights group based in Washington. ''They can be used as easily against political opponents in the United States as they can against threats from foreign countries.''
And some computer scientists expressed skepticism about efforts to predict political instability with indicators like Web searches.
''I'm hard pressed to say that we are witnessing a revolution,'' said Prabhakar Raghavan, the director of Yahoo Labs, who is an information retrieval specialist. He noted that much had been written about predicting flu epidemics by looking at Web searches for ''flu,'' but noted that the predictions did not improve significantly on what could already be found in data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
''You can look at search queries and divine that flu is about to break out,'' he said, ''but what our research has highlighted is that many of these new methods don't add a huge lift.''
Other researchers are far more optimistic. ''There is a huge amount of predictive power in this data,'' said Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, a physicist at Notre Dame who specializes in network science. ''If I have hourly information about your location, with about 93 percent accuracy I can predict where you are going to be an hour or a day later.''
Still, the ease of acquiring and manipulating huge data sets charting Internet behavior causes many researchers to warn that the data mining technologies may be quickly outrunning the ability of scientists to think through questions of privacy and ethics.
There is also the deeper question of whether it will be possible to discern behavioral laws that match the laws of physical sciences. For Isaac Asimov, the predictive powers of psychohistory worked only when it was possible to measure the human population of an entire galaxy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN STAUFFER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (88%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); INTERNET PRIVACY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); BIG DATA (75%); PHYSICS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); INTERNET VIDEO (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CREDIT CARDS (66%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (60%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: DAVID E PRICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



486 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Try Wary Embrace Of the Protests

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU; Jennifer Preston contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Leading Democratic figures, including party fund-raisers and a top ally of President Obama, are embracing the spread of the anti-Wall Street protests in a clear sign that members of the Democratic establishment see the movement as a way to align disenchanted Americans with their party.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the party's powerful House fund-raising arm, is circulating a petition seeking 100,000 party supporters to declare that ''I stand with the Occupy Wall Street protests.''
The Center for American Progress, a liberal organization run by John D. Podesta, who helped lead Mr. Obama's 2008 transition, credits the protests with tapping into pent-up anger over a political system that it says rewards the rich over the working class -- a populist theme now being emphasized by the White House and the party. The center has encouraged and sought to help coordinate protests in different cities. 
Judd Legum, a spokesman for the center, said that its direct contacts with the protests have been limited, but that ''we've definitely been publicizing it and supporting it.''
He said Democrats are already looking for ways to mobilize protesters in get-out-the-vote drives for 2012. ''What attracts an organization like CAP to this movement is the idea that our country's economic policies have been focused on the very top and not on the bulk of America,'' Mr. Legum added. ''That's a message we certainly agree with.''
But while some Democrats see the movement as providing a political boost, the party's alignment with the eclectic mix of protesters makes others nervous. They see the prospect of the protesters' pushing the party dangerously to the left -- just as the Tea Party has often pushed Republicans farther to the right and made for intraparty run-ins.
Mr. Obama has spoken sympathetically of the Wall Street protests, saying they reflect ''the frustration'' that many struggling Americans are feeling. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, have sounded similar themes.
The role of groups like the Democratic campaign committee and Mr. Podesta's group, sometimes working in recent weeks with labor unions, moves support from talking points to the realm of organizational guidance.
It is not at all clear whether the leaders of the amorphous movement actually want the support of the Democratic establishment, given that some of the protesters' complaints are directed at the Obama administration. Among their grievances, the protesters say they want to see steps taken to ensure that the rich pay a fairer share of their income in taxes, that banks are held accountable for reckless practices and that more attention is paid to finding jobs for the unemployed.
The movement has chosen not to have a spokesman and did not offer official comment on the Democrats' attentions. But whether sought or not, the blessing of senior Democrats holds the potential to give the movement added heft in the same way that the role of senior Republicans like the former House leader Dick Armey did for the Tea Party as it grew from an offshoot movement to a much more organized and potent force.
The protests also provide yet another bright dividing line between Democrats and Republicans in Washington -- one that seems likely to help shape the competing themes of the 2012 presidential election.
Democrats and Republicans were already largely divided over the Dodd-Frank legislation, which set out hundreds of new restrictions governing the way financial institutions operate and are regulated. But while the regulations were dense and difficult for many Americans to understand, much less seen as a rallying point, the widespread images of the sprawling protests have offered both parties a colorful and powerful symbol around which to frame their perspectives.
Leading Republicans have grown increasingly critical of the protests. Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, called the protesters ''a growing mob,'' and Herman Cain, a Republican presidential candidate, said the protests are the work of ''jealous'' anti-capitalists.
The Republican National Committee is also eager to use the protests against Mr. Obama.
''The protests began with anger aimed at Wall Street, but the anger is also directed at the failure of leadership in Washington and that starts with the president,'' Kristen Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the committee, said Monday.
The protesters ''realize that if they want change, the one person most responsible for the status quo and for making change is President Obama,'' she said.
While many Democrats have praised the protesters, some officials in the party remain wary of their potential impact -- especially if the protests were to turn more disruptive or even violent.
''That's the danger with something like this -- that you go from peaceful protests to throwing trash cans,'' said a senior House Democratic official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
''Sure, there's been some crazy anarchy stuff, but over all, the Democrats like their message about Wall Street and accountability,'' the official said. ''It overlaps with our own message.''
Matt Bennett, vice president for Third Way, a Democratic policy institute in Washington that favors a more centrist approach, said he believes the angry and sometimes radical tone of the protests may turn off moderate swing voters who will be critical in the 2012 elections, just as many moderates are put off by the rhetoric of the Tea Party on the right.
Embracing the protests may prove a mistake for Democrats, Mr. Bennett said. ''There's not much upside,'' he said, ''and there's a lot of downside.''
Robert Reich, the former labor secretary under President Bill Clinton, wrote in a blog posting Friday that the protesters' demands on taxes dovetail with Democrats' themes, but he said the protests should still make the party wary -- in part because Democrats rely on Wall Street for significant campaign contributions.
''If Occupy Wall Street coalesces into something like a real movement, the Democratic Party may have more difficulty digesting it than the G.O.P. has had with the Tea Party,'' Mr. Reich wrote.
Some Tea Party leaders are already using the headlines generated by the Wall Street protesters to try to appeal for financial help for a national advertising campaign of their own.
In an e-mail sent over the weekend, Todd Cefaratti, representing TeaParty.net, explained the goal of the first television advertisement would be to introduce the face of the Tea Party movement as a ''diverse group of everyday Americans who are only special in that they are patriots who want to put our country back on the right track!'' He included a link to the ad that is posted on YouTube and already had more than 37,000 views by Monday night.
Mr. Cefaratti dismissed comparisons that some people have been making about the Tea Party movement and the Occupy Wall Street group.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Occupy DC camp at Freedom Plaza in Washington. Democratic Party leaders are hoping they can tap into the discontent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); PETITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



487 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions Pose Growing Threat To Syrian Chief

BYLINE: By NADA BAKRI; Anthony Shadid and Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- The Syrian economy is buckling under the pressure of sanctions by the West and a continuing popular uprising, posing a growing challenge to President Bashar al-Assad's government as the pain is felt deeply by nearly every layer of Syrian society.
With Syria's currency weakening, its recession expanding, its tourism industry wrecked and international sanctions affecting most essential sectors, the International Monetary Fund now expects Syria's economy to shrink this year, by at least 2 percent.
Through nearly seven months of protests and a brutal crackdown that has killed more than 2,900 people, Mr. Assad and his political supporters have demonstrated a cohesiveness that has surprised even his critics. Differences that may exist have stayed inside a ruling clique that draws on Mr. Assad's own clan and sect, and the security services have yet to fracture.
But analysts in the region and officials in Turkey and the United States say the faltering economy presents a double blow to a government that had once relied on its economic successes as a crucial source of legitimacy. As many Syrians, poor and rich, feel the effects of the revolt in their daily lives, a sense of desperation is echoed in the streets, even in Damascus and Aleppo, the country's two largest cities and economic centers. 
Analysts also point out that Syria could use sanctions to rally its people against a common threat.
While neither has risen up like other Syrian cities, complaints are growing, and American and Turkish officials say they believe that the merchant elite in both cities will eventually turn against Mr. Assad.
''I can no longer afford to buy anything for my family,'' said Ibrahim Nimr, an economic analyst based in Damascus, the capital. ''I am not making any more money. I am facing difficulties, and I don't know what to do.''
A businessman in Damascus, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal, said: ''People are not buying anything they don't need these days. Just barely the necessities.''
American and Turkish officials say that a collapse is not imminent and that the government can probably survive through the end of the year. But they now believe it is possible that the toll of the sanctions and protests could bring down Mr. Assad in 6 to 18 months.
''We're all waiting for the thing that will crack them,'' an Obama administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''And it will be the economy that will wake everybody up, both those who support him, and Assad and his circle.''
Revenues from oil and gas exports, which account for up to a third of state revenues and are the single biggest source of foreign currency, will dry up at the beginning of November, when a European Union ban on imports will fully come into force.
The unrest has paralyzed the tourism industry, which brings in $7.7 billion a year. Several hotels in Damascus said they did not have any bookings for now or anytime in the future, and some hotel owners said that they closed down in the summer because they could no longer afford to pay salaries and bills.
An owner of a small candy shop in Souk al-Hamidiyeh, an old market in the heart of Damascus, said that he had not seen a single tourist since March, when the uprising against Mr. Assad began.
''And it doesn't look like we will see tourists anytime soon,'' the owner added.
Dik al-Jin, one of the oldest restaurants and the most popular site for weddings and parties in Homs, a city in central Syria where the uprising has the semblance of a civil war, also shut down because of a lack of customers, soon after the demonstrations broke out.
But uncertainties persist over the international strategy to put pressure on the Syrian economy. American and European officials have debated whether the sanctions will end up hurting average Syrians more than the leadership. Some analysts have contended that the government may try to paint itself as a victim and court support by casting the sanctions as a contest of ''us against them.''
Indeed, in the 1990s in Iraq, which was hit by comprehensive sanctions, popular anger was often directed at the United Nations and the West, not the government of Saddam Hussein.
For now, and in spite of the fraying economy, the government seems buoyed by a sense of confidence over having blunted some of the mass protests this summer in cities like Hama and Deir al-Zour. Syrian officials also have faced sanctions before, only to weather them and seek to rehabilitate themselves once conditions in the region shift. Syrian officials also received a lift when China and Russia vetoed a resolution in the United Nations Security Council that condemned the violent oppression of antigovernment demonstrators last week.
''I do agree that they're more confident now than before,'' the American official said.
In recent months, Syrian officials in the Ministry of Economy and Trade and the Ministry of Finance have dismissed in published remarks the effects of sanctions on the economy and foreign currency reserves. In September, Mohammad al-Jleilati, the finance minister, said that the country had $18 billion in foreign currency reserves, enough to secure imports for two years. Though most experts disputed the figure, they added that given the lack of transparency, it was hard to determine the amount.
But the economic impact appears greater than in past crises, and officials in Turkey, once a crucial trading partner with Syria, are preparing to impose their own sanctions. The Syrian government's own figures underline a waning sense of faith in the economy.
Recent statistics published by the Syrian Investment Agency, a state-run firm that oversees investment in Syria's infrastructure, transportation and agriculture sectors, pointed to a decrease in consumer and investor confidence. The agency reported that 131 licenses for private investment projects were issued in the first half of the year, a decrease of 40 percent compared with the first six months of last year.
Assets in Syria's five largest banks dropped by nearly 17 percent in the first half of 2011, while deposits in Lebanese banks operating in Syria were down by 20 percent from 2010, according to a report released by Lebanon's Byblos Bank.
So far, Syrian officials, who appear to be bewildered by the uprising and how to cope with it, have announced a series of measures that most experts say are likely to deepen the crisis. Among these steps was a decision last month to ban imports of many consumer goods to protect Syria's foreign currency reserves. The step created such a domestic and regional uproar over price increases that the government revoked it a week later.
Another decision was approving a budget of $26.53 billion, a 58 percent increase over last year's budget and the highest in Syria's history.
''Where are they going to bring that money from?'' asked Nabil Sukkar, a former World Bank official who now runs an independent research institute based in Damascus. ''That is a big question mark. We now have less revenues. No one outside is going to help us. We have reserves, but they are being drawn down.''
There were unconfirmed reports from inside Syria that employees in some public institutions were asked to contribute the equivalent of $10 every month to a special fund that goes to the government.
For years, Mr. Assad portrayed himself as a modernizer, and a newfound consumerism in Damascus and Aleppo seemed to mark a break with the drearier years associated with his father's three decades of rule. In April, only a month after the uprising started, the International Monetary Fund forecast growth rates of 3 percent for 2011 and 5.1 percent for 2012.
''We were on our way to move toward a strong economy,'' said an economic expert based in Damascus, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal. ''We started seeing an increase in foreign and local investments. The momentum was on until we were hit by crisis. Unfortunately, I am very pessimistic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CURRENCIES (72%); TOURISM (57%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); TURKEY (93%); LEBANON (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



488 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Light Trading Helps Push Big Gains on Wall Street

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
Wall Street rallied on Monday in light trading after French and German leaders promised to develop a plan to confront Europe's debt problems.
In part, traders said the magnitude of the gains was a result of below-average volume during the Columbus Day holiday in the United States. 
Still, a self-imposed deadline in Europe was enough to send the major indexes sharply higher, analysts said.
Banks, which have suffered particularly steep losses recently over fears about their exposure to the European debt crisis, were among the biggest winners. Citigroup's shares gained 7.6 percent, Wells Fargo's shares were up 6.5 percent and Bank of America's shares rose 6.4 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 3.4 percent, gaining 39.43 points, to 1,194.89. The Dow Jones industrial index rose 330.06 points, to 11,433.18, a rise of 3 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index added 3.5 percent, up 86.70 points, to 2566.05.
The trading volume of stocks in the S.& P. 500 was down about 36 percent from the average of the previous week. The bond market was closed.
The S.& P. 500 is now up more than 10 percent from a low last Tuesday that took the index briefly into a bear market. The advance has been driven by short-covering and managers buying stocks as they try to catch up to the sharp rally, analysts said.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Nicolas Sarkozy, the president of France, said they would take action to recapitalize European banks by the end of the month, after a day of largely inconclusive talks. European leaders delayed a crucial European Union summit meeting that had been scheduled for later this week, and some officials questioned whether much progress had been made.
Still, the news pushed up prices for commodities along with stocks. Benchmark crude oil futures for November delivery rose 2.4 percent to $85.59, while Comex gold futures rose 2.1 percent to $1,669.60. The euro was flat at $1.3384 against the dollar.
''There's not anything definitive,'' said Alan B. Lancz, the president of Alan B. Lancz & Associates, a money manager in Ohio. ''But markets got a timeline, which they never had before.''
A move to nationalize the French-Belgian bank Dexia was also seen by some analysts as a sign that officials would keep large lenders from going under.
European markets climbed as well. The benchmark Euro Stoxx 50 was up 2.3 percent, while the FTSE 100 in London gained 1.8 percent. In Frankfurt, the DAX rose 3 percent.
Shares for Sprint Nextel lost 7.9 percent on Monday, as analysts voiced concerns about the cost of the company's plans to build a fourth-generation wireless network and subsidize its customers' purchases of Apple's iPhone. Sprint's stock began falling after the plans were discussed at an investors' conference on Friday. Its shares have lost more than 26 percent of their value over the last two sessions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange floor on Monday. Stocks rose sharply, particularly for banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (97%); FUTURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BONDS (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); 4G WIRELESS (60%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (82%); ALAN B LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC (81%); WELLS FARGO & CO (71%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); DEXIA SA (56%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (71%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); DEXB (BRU) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); OHIO, USA (78%) EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



489 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Europe Delays Meeting On Debt Crisis Actions

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A crucial European Union summit meeting intended to address the euro zone debt crisis was delayed for nearly a week on Monday to give government leaders more time to fashion a solution.
The delay was announced by the president of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, a day after largely inconclusive talks between the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. They promised to act but provided no details.
An agreement to expand the bailout fund for the euro zone, agreed to by leaders in July, requires unanimous approval from member state parliaments. Malta, with a population of just over 400,000, approved the plan on Monday, leaving Slovakia as the last of the 17 nations that use the euro to take up the accord for formal consideration. 
The governing coalition in Slovakia on Monday failed to reach a compromise on an endorsement. A vote on the matter in the Slovakian Parliament was scheduled for Tuesday.
The failure to reach a deal underlines the extent of political deadlock in Slovakia that could threaten final approval of the expanded 440 billion euro, or $600 billion, bailout fund. One European official said there was growing concern about the Slovakian vote in Brussels, but also hope that the measure would be approved.
In Athens, there were signs that international lenders were close to agreeing with the Greek government on the terms by which 8 billion euros in aid could be released. Without the loans, Greece will default within weeks.
But European officials also acknowledged that they needed more time than anticipated to put together a coordinated plan.
In a statement, Mr. Van Rompuy said a summit meeting, originally scheduled for Oct. 17 and 18, had been delayed until Oct. 23 to give the bloc time ''to finalize our comprehensive strategy on the euro area sovereign debt crisis covering a number of interrelated issues.''
The declaration suggested that the extra time was needed to address some of the questions that Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Sarkozy discussed on Sunday in Berlin.
Though the two leaders announced that they were in agreement that European banks needed recapitalization, they declined to give any details on the plan that they would propose by the end of October.
That was enough to buoy investors. The euro soared against the dollar, and stock markets in the United States and Europe rose sharply.
But it seemed to have done less to satisfy officials tasked with drawing up the agenda for the summit meeting. ''They don't appear to have agreed on anything substantial,'' said a European Union official who would speak only on the condition of anonymity.
The official added, however, that the additional time ''could point to the fact that they are preparing something big.''
Paris and Berlin were believed to remain at odds over how to recapitalize European banks, with France favoring using the bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility. French banks have worrying levels of exposure to bonds from southern Europe. But, with presidential elections looming next year, Mr. Sarkozy is resisting any recapitalization plan that would risk his country's AAA credit rating.
Germany, on the other hand, favors action by national governments, confident that it can handle its own banks' exposure to sovereign debt.
With no obvious consensus emerging from the Berlin meeting, the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, may find it difficult to produce a blueprint acceptable to both sides.
Another central question facing the European Commission is whether to propose an increase in the scope of the 440 billion euro bailout fund by allowing it to leverage its financial resources.
Both these issues appeared to be identified in Mr. Van Rompuy's statement as requiring ''further elements'' in discussions -- as was the plight of Greece.
In Athens, the Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, told a parliamentary committee on Monday that talks with visiting auditors from the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund, known collectively as the troika, had concluded and that only ''certain technical issues'' remained to be addressed.
The minister also suggested that any disputes regarding the government's agreement with the troika would be quickly resolved, noting that if necessary he would ''personally ensure that conclusive political solutions are found.''
Last week, euro zone finance ministers delayed a decision on whether to release the latest installment of aid because of the standoff between the troika and the Greek government.
Speaking outside Greece's Parliament on Monday, Mr. Venizelos said he expected improvements in a second bailout package for the country with regard to private sector involvement.
Online Correction: October 10, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to a measure before the parliaments of Slovakia and Malta. At issue is the expansion of the euro bailout fund, not a second bailout package for Greece.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council. Leaders will now meet on Oct. 23. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); SLOVAKIA (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MALTA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



490 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: A Mentor's Passion for Pictures and Social Justice

BYLINE: MICHAEL KAMBER


HIGHLIGHT: Mel Rosenthal, an impassioned photographer and a mentor to many, is retiring from his teaching position at Empire State College. Michael Kamber, a former student, talked to him about his career. 

 BODY:
In the mid-1980s, after I'd run through my small savings and dropped out of photography school, a friend invited me to a class at Empire State College taught by a guy named Mel.
"But I don't have any money," I protested.
"Mel doesn't care about money," my friend said. "He'll let you in anyway."
And he did.
The guy's full name was Mel Rosenthal. An excellent and impassioned photographer, Mel became a mentor to me, as he was to hundreds of other aspiring young photographers who flocked to his classes at the college, which is part of the State University of New York. Every week, I went to his class, listening to guest lectures by some of the most influential photographers around - Susan Meiselas, Eli Reed and others.
"Mel Rosenthal had a profound and incalculable impact on young photojournalists and taught the importance of using photography as a tool to change the conditions in which disempowered people live," said Ricky Flores, a photographer with The Journal News in Westchester County.
For Mel, photography was a path and an instrument for social justice, something he seared into the minds of his students. He pointed his camera - and encouraged others to point theirs - where images could make a difference, especially focusing on issues around poverty, housing and health care.
He had honed his skills as a photographer in the 1970s in Africa, where he documented medical care in Tanzania. While there, he worked with Paolo Freire, the radical Brazilian educator whose literacy programs taught the poor not just to read, but to consider the political and economic forces swirling around them.
That experience set the stage for his return to the neighborhood where he had grown up in the South Bronx, an area that was crumbling as the result of poverty and government policies. When he wasn't teaching, Mel was photographing everything from the decrepit buildings to the hardy souls who were his guides, inspiration and friends along Bathgate Avenue (a long stretch of which would vanish amid flames and the wrecking ball, to be replaced with faceless, low-slung industrial buildings).
The resulting images were published in 2000 as "In the South Bronx of America" (Curbstone Press), which is perhaps his best-known work. Throughout its pages, he interspersed observations and figures that give a deeper context to the people and places he portrayed. The collective impact earned him critical praise.
William Jay Smith, the former poet laureate of the United States, wrote in a blurb: "Not since Eudora Welty photographed rural Mississippi in the 1930s has anyone caught so memorably a people and place as Mel Rosenthal has done in this unforgettable record of the South Bronx."
Among his honors, Mel received has received fellowships from the New York Foundation for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts. Apart from his documentary projects overseas, he has also chronicled the experiences of newly arrived immigrants in New York State, presenting them in an exhibit titled "Refuge." Working with others, he helped start the photo agency Impact Visuals, and began the Triage Project, which documented issues of health and homelessness in New York City.
Now, after a teaching career of nearly 40 years, Mel is retiring from Empire State College. His farewell exhibition and party will be held Tuesday, Oct. 11, from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. at 325 Hudson Street.
True to form, the public is invited. Free.
I caught up with Mel at his Upper West Side apartment, where he is surrounded by images attesting to decades of work from Africa, Central America, the Caribbean and the United States. The interview has been edited and condensed.
Q.
Tell me about your early upbringing.
A.
Well, I was born at Bronx Hospital in 1940. My father was a teacher, he went to City College just like I did. Eventually he became a lawyer - a military lawyer. He became a major in the Army. We lived in South Carolina for a while when I was a kid.
But eventually we came back to the Bronx. We liked it better than the South. My aunt says one of reasons we came back was that the Klan was burning crosses down there. We were some of the only Jews there. So I come out of that world. My life is really kind of very strange.
Q.
What did your mother do?
A.
My mother wanted to be a painter. She painted a lot. She never got anywhere. We knew nothing about art. We lived at 1356 Sheridan Ave. in the Bronx, two blocks from Taft High School, where I went. I graduated from City College, prelaw. I started with English, but then I got into trouble for writing about the Japanese internment camps and about illegal wiretaps. (It was the McCarthy years.)
I taught English at Vassar for a couple years. Vassar was great. I got really interested in film there. The African-American students took over a building - they had a sit-in. They wanted an African-American studies department. But there were only three black people at Vassar then and none of them wanted the job. So they said: "Let's make Mel the interim chairman. He's the closest thing we have to a black person." So I was the interim chair for a while.
Q.
How did you start photographing?
A.
I went to Rome on a student exchange. I found an old Leica that I got really cheap. Those were my first real photographs. But I had no idea what I was doing.
Then there was this huge change in my whole life. I saw Antonioni's film, "Blow-Up." I went nuts. The idea of seeing pictures come up out of trays - if you remember, the most important person was the photographer. He was trying to solve the mystery.
I said, "My God, this is what I want to do." Before that, I didn't know there was such person as a photojournalist who solved mysteries in a visual way. So that was that.
Q.
How did you learn photography? How did you improve when you started?
A.
I knew that I didn't know what I was doing. So I started sitting in on Lisette Model's course. She was my mentor. She was the mentor of half the photographers in New York. The thing I most remember: I was asking questions all the time. I said, "I'm curious, who's your mentor?"
She said, "My piano."
And I took a class with Susan Sontag. She taught reality. Instead of the usual assignments, she'd say, "You have to see Antonioni, or the Marx Brothers." She was about my age and I was madly in love with her.
Q.
Do you consider yourself a leftist?
A.
I'm not a leftist. My father said to me: "When I die, I will not have any money; no belongings. The only thing I will have is to tell you, 'When you come onto this earth, there is no justice, no fairness.' "
You can call this leftist, but I call it being objective.
I used to say, "I just want to overthrow the government." That was a mistake; not the right thing to say. Times change and they change in difficult ways. Not knowing what to do about it, I go back to simple stuff - which is, I hope, to make photographs thinking about truth and justice.
Q.
Well, are you an activist? Do activism and photojournalism go together?
A.
Activism and photojournalism work together beautifully. What I'm interested in is things that are important. What do you think we are all doing now? Everybody is in the same bowl together.
Q.
How long have you been at Empire State College?
A.
I got my first job at Empire State College around 1975 as a teacher. I had to walk through my old neighborhood to my office on Bathgate Avenue. That's how I started photographing the Bronx. I made friends. I was walking down street one day, some gang members saw me. They said, "What the hell you doing here?" One lifted up his pants. He had two Berettas strapped to his ankles.
I said, "Do you really need two guns?"
And they gave me access. That was how I was able to photograph on Bathgate. The guys with the guns knew I was a nice guy.
I had shows in local bars. I photographed everyone on Bathgate Avenue. I always gave pictures back to the people. I always told my students, "You lose points if you don't give pictures back to your subjects."
Q.
How did you become a mentor to so many photographers?
A.
That's my secret: I let everyone do what they wanted to do. I said: "Look, you're great. Just keep being a good photographer. You can do it!"
At one point, I had to make a decision of what to do with my time and energy. A lot of people said, "Keep shooting; you are an artist."
I said: "I'm not an artist; I'm a messenger." I go to a place to see what's going on, bring it back for people to see, then I go to the next place. So I decided I would do half-shooting and half-teaching. It was great. I was able to teach and mentor and make my photos too.

        
Close-Ups of Puerto Rican New York
        
Rosalind Solomon's Singular Journey
        
Readers' Photos: Burning, but Breathing
        
Rebuilding Lives in Former Soviet Lands
        
Coming of Age in Dublin's Underworld

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); WRITERS (64%); POETRY (60%) "In the South Bronx of America"; Antonioni; Bathgate Avenue; Black-and-white photography; Bronx; Empire State College; Impact Visuals; Lisette Model; Mel Rosenthal; Michael Kamber; Paolo Freire; Ricky Flores; Social documentary and commentary; South Bronx; Tanzania; Triage Project; Showcase

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



491 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: New York May Lose 10,000 Wall St. Jobs, Report Says

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Economic turmoil worldwide and at home threatens the profits and bonuses at the big banks, the New York comptroller said. 

 BODY:
8:09 p.m. | Updated 
A sluggish domestic economy and a debt crisis in Europe continue to create problems in the nation's financial hub, as Wall Street firms prepare to cut thousands of jobs in New York City.
Nearly 10,000 workers in the securities industry in New York could lose their jobs through the end of next year, according to a report issued Tuesday by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, bringing the total cuts for New York in the sector to 32,000 since January 2008.
"The securities industry had a strong start to 2011, but its prospects have cooled considerably for the second half of this year," Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement. "It now seems likely that profits will fall sharply, job losses will continue and bonuses will be smaller than last year."
The report, which covers all member firms of the New York Stock Exchange, also said pretax profits earned by securities firms in the first half of 2011 slipped to $12.6 billion, a decline of 10.8 percent from the same period a year earlier. It said that while revenue at securities firms grew by 12.5 percent during the period, expenses made a bigger jump, rising 18.7 percent over the year-ago period.
Despite job cuts and lagging profits at their firms, Wall Street employees who remain employed are doing well. The average salary of a worker in the industry in New York jumped to $361,330 in 2010, a 16 percent increase over the average last year, according to the report. That is more than five times the average private sector salary in New York, which stands at $66,120.
Cash bonuses, which can account for a large portion of a financial employee's annual income, are expected to fall in 2011, though the comptroller's report did not predict the amount of the decline. In 2010, cash bonuses totaled an estimated $20.8 billion.
It is a tumultuous time for the city's securities industry, which includes banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley as well as smaller brokerage firms and research groups. For nearly a month, a phalanx of protesters from the Occupy Wall Street movement has been camped out in Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, demanding investigations of bank executives whose behavior they feel spurred the financial crisis. On Tuesday, protesters marched to the homes of corporate executives including Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorganChase, to protest corporate greed and rising income inequality.
Regulatory changes have also taken a toll on Wall Street. An early version of the Volcker rule, a curb on certain types of trading that would reduce the amount of risk taken on by large firms, was released in draft form Tuesday. In a report issued this week, Moody's said the Volcker Rule, if put in place in its current form, would be "likely to diminish the flexibility and profitability" of the largest United States banks.
Anticipating tough times ahead, banks have already begun battening down the hatches. Bank of America, saddled by bad mortgage assets and a flood of legal troubles, announced last month that it planned to cut 30,000 jobs globally in the next few years, and eliminate $5 billion in annual costs by 2014. Credit Suisse, Barclays Capital, Goldman Sachs and other large banks have also announced plans to cut jobs and expenses.
"I think it's reasonable to expect a slow patch," said Chris Kotowski, a banking analyst with Oppenheimer. "People should plan on that, personally and professionally, and city officials should plan on that in terms of their budgeting."
Wall Street's struggles will most likely be reflected in New York City's tax revenue, as well as in the revenues of nonfinancial businesses, like high-end real estate firms and expensive restaurants, which depend on a steady flow of well-off customers. The comptroller's report estimates that for every job lost on Wall Street, two are lost in the city in other industries, and one additional job is lost elsewhere in the state. 
"These developments will have a rippling effect through the economy and adversely impact state and city tax collections," Mr. DiNapoli said in the statement. "As we know, when Wall Street slows, New York City and New York State's budgets feel the impact and that is a concern." 
A further glimpse into the financial health of the industry will come this week, when Wall Street's largest banks begin to release their third-quarter earnings. Many analysts expect the largest banks to post smaller profits than last quarter, and some are even predicting that Goldman Sachs, once the most profitable bank on Wall Street, will post a loss.
"It's entirely possible," Mr. Kotowski said of the continued problems anticipated by the comptroller's report. "It can also all turn on a dime."

        
Wall Street Braces for New Layoffs as Profits Wane
        
Goldman Sachs Draws Up Deeper Cuts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (84%); EXECUTIVES (84%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%) Barclays Capital; Credit Suisse; Goldman Sachs; Jamie Dimon; Job Cuts; JPMorgan Chase &; Layoffs; Morgan Stanley; New York City; New York Stock Exchange; sovereign debt crisis; Thomas P. DiNapoli; Volcker Rule; Wall Street; DiNapoli, Thomas P; Banking and Financial Institutions; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Office of the Comptroller (NYS); Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Morgan Stanley; Office of the Comptroller (NYS)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (50%) DiNapoli, Thomas P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



492 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Wild Horses and Hard Choices

BYLINE: MAX BEARAK


HIGHLIGHT: Are roundups of wild horses in the best interest of the horses, or the ecosystem, in the Central Plains? The answer is complicated, some suggest. 

 BODY:
My first wild horse sighting came when a coworker and I, navigating a barely visible dirt road in our big Forest Service truck this summer, had just reached the crest of a ridge on our way to survey a remote wilderness area in eastern Nevada.
As I slowed down to admire the view, three black stallions bolted from a grove of pines barely 50 feet from us. Seconds later the horses were gone, leaving us to ponder their lives on the run and, later, to recount the thrill we had experienced.
I was lucky enough to see many more on the ranges of the Great Basin during my summer stint with the Forest Service. Well adapted to the basin's wide open spaces, they would outrun our trucks and look back at us from afar, as if playing a game of tag in their natural playground.
Indeed, these horses aren't fenced in. They run more or less freely in 10 Western states. Since leaving Nevada to return to school, I've had a recurring dream of one stallion in particular. With wind blowing through his mane as he raced beneath a clear blue summer sky, I fleetingly felt his independence. It's abundantly clear to me why wild horses have come to embody freedom in the American imagination.

Some estimates say that there used to be millions of wild horses in North America. Horses were brought to the Americas initially by Spanish settlers, and to the West later as part of wagon trains and cavalry units in the United States Army, but all were domesticated.
Over the years, many horses were turned loose, either as a result of wars with Indian peoples or Mexicans, or because their owners had become too poor to take care of them. After the mechanization of agriculture, even more horses were released into the wild because they were no longer needed to pull plows and the like.
Yet, as more and more people arrived to settle the American West, loss of habitat drastically reduced wild horse populations. Significant droughts made the struggle for survival even harder by diminishing grazing areas in an already-shrinking natural environment.
By the 1960s, the total population had dropped to around 17,000. In 1971, Congress responded to growing public pressure by passing the Wild Horse and Burro Act, which reaffirmed that the animals were "living symbols of the historic and pioneer spirit of the West."
The act granted ownership of all American wild horses to the federal government and established more than 300 herd management areas that are now administered by the Bureau of Land Management. The bureau has since been tasked with managing the wild horse populations and mitigating their effects on ecosystems.
Initially, with dangerously low numbers of horses, the bureau mainly sought to provide the horses with stable food and water supplies in the event of drought. Nowadays, the bureau vigorously pursues a policy of rounding up wild horses to keep their numbers at a level that prevents them from over-grazing and hogging water.
Since 1971, over 200,000 wild horses have been rounded up by the bureau. This year, they proposed to capture 6,000, a reduction from previous years. The bureau sets a target for roundups based on research on an area's ecological carrying capacity.
For instance, in the herd management area nearest to Ely, Nev., where I worked this summer, they have determined that they should aim for a wild horse population between 810 and 1,695. At present, 3,700 horses roam the Ely district.
Ben Noyes, a wild horse and burro specialist working for the bureau in Ely, explained why ecosystems in the region can only handle so many horses. "Horses really do destroy the land sometimes," he told me. "They muddy up spring water and contaminate it with waste, and when they eat grass they actually completely uproot it, leaving their ranges bare."
Some would argue that wild horses are an invasive species in North America. While there were wild horses on the continent until the late Pleistocene era, about 10,000 years ago, they went extinct along with many other large mammals like the woolly mammoth. Then again, even the elk and mule deer, which are now abundant in the Great Basin region, were brought there by early white settlers for hunting and for aesthetic purposes. 
In such an "unnatural" landscape, those who work with wild horses are split on how to interpret their place in the ecosystem.
What is certain is that because of the strain that wild horses put on those ecosystems and because their habitat is so limited, most are skinny and undernourished. Mr. Noyes says that seeing horses in that condition motivated him to get involved in their management.
"For me, it's not just my job, it's my life," he said. "I love to see them healthy and in great shape, just as I like to see other animals in good shape in a healthy ecosystem. You don't want to see them suffer, you don't want to see them fight with each other.'
On the other hand, some animal welfare activists argue that the bureau's roundups are not in the best interest of the horses or the ecosystem. Most of the activists contend that the bureau rounds up far too many horses and caters to vested interests in livestock grazing and to landowners who see the horses as pests.
The bureau has in turn struggled to assure activists that it now has the horses' interests at heart. 
Early on, in a memorandum written when the Wild Horse and Burro Act was passed in the early 70s, Jeff Sirmon, a deputy regional forester, encouraged bureau employees to "take a more positive attitude" toward wild horses. Region-wide, he acknowledged then, "practically all of our people freely express the idea that these animals are a problem and are unwanted. Everyone hopes they will die off from loco-weed poisoning, or the cougars will kill them off, or they will simply migrate somewhere else."
Attitudes have certainly changed, and the bureau does not want wild horses to simply disappear or die off.
And what does a roundup look like?
Wild horses are located on the range by helicopter. Once they are found, the helicopter acts as a kind of sheep dog. It swoops low and chases the horses toward a predetermined location where a "trap site" has already been set up.
A trained horse known as a Judas horse runs into the trap site, leading the wild horses in with him. Often the wild horses will have run from the helicopter for miles and miles, in great heat, and some do die in the process from exhaustion or heat.
Most don't, however, and the rest are loaded from the trap site into mobile corrals and taken to temporary holding sites. Very few horses escape the helicopter, but when they do, the activists who gather at the trap sites to protest the roundups give a hearty cheer.
At the temporary holding sites, the horses are sorted by age, sex and state of health after undergoing basic examinations. Then they are sent to short-term holding facilities where they get more vigorous health examinations and receive vaccinations. The studs (adult male horses) are castrated. This is all part of the process of making wild horses adoptable so that the public can take advantage of the roundups.
Not all horses are adoptable. Some are very sick, some are too old, and some seem completely untrainable. In those cases, the horses are transferred to specific pastures owned by the bureau for an easy retirement. The adoptable horses will typically end up at county and state fairgrounds or other auction events where the public can buy them from the bureau. A standard horse goes for $125.
The horses are cheap because they're not well bred and are very hard to train. Debbie Collins, the coordinator of the information center for the bureau's Wild Horse and Burro Program, says the process requires lots of patience. "They're not used to someone coming out with a bucket of feed," she said, "and they've never had a stall, or really any contact with humans."
Ms. Collins says that some adopters prefer wild horses nonetheless because it's like starting with a clean slate. The training takes creativity: apparently some adopters have their horses listen to the radio during the day to get them accustomed to human voices.
Most adopted wild horses will end up in Oklahoma, Kansas or other Central Plains states. Yet extreme drought in that region this year has sharply reduced the numbers adopted. And in some areas furthest to the east, there's been lots of flooding."On top of the economic slowdown, we've had a lot of mother nature issues this year," Ms. Collins said.
Given that the weather has been so unpredictable lately and an economic turnaround has not materialized, the bureau has started looking at new methods for managing free-roaming wild horse populations beyond the adoption program. In 2009, 500 female wild horses were given fertility control treatments before being released back into the wild. This year and the next, they hope to treat 2,000 annually.
Wild horses are an instructive example of how the protection of both animal welfare and ecosystems, which you would think go hand in hand, requires compromises.
Who would have thought that the government would be capturing and sterilizing an animal that represents something fundamental to the nation's heritage? But there you have it.

        
New Measures to Aid Solar on Public Lands
        
In Bear Attack, Hunter Killed Hunter, Autopsy Shows
        
In Ancient Pines, a Startling Shift in Tree Rings
        
How Dead Is Yucca Mountain?
        
Solar Power for Darker Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSES (91%); WILDLIFE (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); DROUGHT (86%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDERNESS (78%); ARMIES (72%); ANIMAL WELFARE (63%) Bureau of Land Management; Great Basin; Nevada; roundups; wild horses; Cruelty to Animals; Horses; United States Defense and Military Forces; Wilderness Areas; Forest Service; Living; Politics and Policy; public lands; wildlife

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (84%) Bureau of Land Management; Forest Service

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Nevada

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



493 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Tells His Investors: 'We Made a Mistake'

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: After making a bad bet on a recovery in the United States economy, John A. Paulson told investors he was cutting the leverage in one troubled portfolio and reducing exposure to the stock market. 

 BODY:
8:34 p.m. | Updated 
John A. Paulson had a simple message on Tuesday to investors in his ailing hedge fund: "We made a mistake."
Mr. Paulson, the money manager who made billions during the financial downturn betting against the subprime mortgage market, admitted in his quarterly conference call that he had made a bad bet on a recovery in the domestic economy, the linchpin of the firm's investment thesis this year.
Now, Mr. Paulson is moving to cut leverage in one troubled portfolio, the Advantage Plus fund, which is down 47 percent this year. He also plans to reduce the firm's exposure to the stock market more broadly, according to several people who listened to the roughly hourlong call but were not authorized to speak about it publicly.
The money manager also addressed concerns that investors might remove vast sums of money in response to the steep losses. Mr. Paulson and his employees represent about 50 percent of the $30 billion at the firm. If all eligible investors withdrew their money at once, the redemptions would amount to about 20 to 25 percent of the firm's assets, according to investors on the call.
It is unclear how much money will ultimately be withdrawn from the funds. So far, investors have largely been patient, choosing to stick by the manager who made them, or at least some of them, so much money in the recession.
The firm faces another test at the end of this month, the deadline for withdrawal requests at the Advantage funds, which have suffered the most. The portfolios had more than $18 billion at the beginning of the year but have dwindled to about $12 billion.
Despite the problems, Mr. Paulson underscored that he had no intention of winding down the funds and returning money to outside investors, and he said that he felt the funds would recover from their recent woes.
But the Advantage Plus fund would need to produce returns of about 100 percent to surmount its losses. The nonleveraged version of the same fund is down about 32 percent.
This year's weak performance is a stark reversal for Mr. Paulson, a multibillionaire who made his fortune and fame by betting against the subprime mortgage market. Since that time, investors have rushed to put money into the hedge fund, lured by the outsize riches made in the past. The firm's assets swelled to about $38 billion at one point this year, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
But newer investors have watched their accounts erode. Paulson lost $500 million on a Chinese timber company that was accused by a research analyst of fraudulent accounting. Holdings like Citigroup and Bank of America have also had big losses amid the global market turmoil and Europe's debt crisis.
One remaining bright spot for Mr. Paulson's portfolio - gold - lost some of its upside in the last several weeks. He bought the precious metal as a hedge against inflation, believing that the dollar would become less valuable as a result of quantitative easing.
He was right, albeit for the wrong reasons. The commodity skyrocketed for a while as investors fled stocks and other securities for safety.
But in September, prices slipped by more than 8 percent, and funds that had been holding steady through much of the year started to tumble. Mr. Paulson's gold fund fell 16 percent last month, and it is now only up 1 percent in 2011. The Recovery fund, specifically focused on securities that would benefit from an improving economy, is off 31 percent for the year after losing 14 percent in September.
With the losses taking their toll, Mr. Paulson is moving to reduce leverage, or the amount of money it borrows to enhance its bets. He is cutting leverage in the Advantage Plus fund to 1.15 times from 1.5 times capital. The hedge fund firm has also tempered its net exposure to the stock market to about 45 percent of assets, down from 80 percent of assets in the first quarter, according to those on the call.
By cutting his risk, Mr. Paulson is limiting the additional downside, according to investors in the funds. But the move could also crimp his potential returns should the market rally.

        
Another Traumatic Month for Paulson
        
As Mets Deal Collapses, Einhorn Fund Shows a Decline

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); BONDS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); EURO CRISIS (64%) John A. Paulson; Morgan Stanley; Paulson & Company; Paulson, John A; Economic Conditions and Trends; Gold; Hedge Funds; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Paulson & Co; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Paulson & Co

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: Paulson, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



494 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Online Game Challenges You to Live On $1,000 A Month

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: An online game called Spent lets you see what it's like to live on $1,000 a month. 

 BODY:
Could you live on $1,000 a month? An online game called Spentlets you see what it's like to make the tough choices necessary to get by on that amount of income.
The interactive game was developed by a team at McKinney, a national advertising agency based in Durham, N.C., as a pro-bono effort to raise awareness of Urban Ministries, a local emergency services outfit seeing heavy demand in the tough economy.
Spent challenges users to experience what it is like -- and what tradeoffs must be made - to get by on $1,000 a month. The game debuted early this year and has been played more than 1.7 million times, says Janet Northern, director of communications for McKinney. But we here at Bucks somehow missed it, and we thought it was worthy of note because it's so compelling. Spent cleverly makes use of actual economic data and links to social media to get its point across.
The game - it's more of an exercise, really -- first allows you to apply for different jobs at different rates of pay, like a waiter at a restaurant or a temporary typist. If you choose the temp job - which I did -- it has you take a typing test (which, to my dismay, I failed).
Next, it poses a series of choices and lists the accompanying cost for each one, plus its respective impact on your cash. If you're lucky enough to get a job as a waitress, for instance, ($2 and change an hour, plus tips), but drop a stack of plates and break them, do you fess up and pay for the damage or hide the evidence to avoid busting your budget?
Many people give up on the eighth or ninth day of choices, and are dismayed to find that the only way they can live on the allotted funds is to make decisions they wouldn't ordinarily make - like being dishonest, says Jenny Nicholson, a 33-year-old McKinney copywriter who came up with the initial idea for Spent.
Ms. Nicholson has built a successful career, but she said she brought to the effort her own personal experience as a child in a family that struggled with poverty. "It's easy to think that it's something inherent in you that made you successful - that somehow, you made better decisions," she said. So the tool aims to show that for many people, given the current economy, there are often no good choices - just ones that are equally unpalatable and, sometimes, morally ambiguous.
One of the questions in the game involves whether to bring a sick pet to the vet. She recalls her family agonizing over whether to take an ill puppy for treatment. "It's not that we loved him any less," she said. "But we didn't even have enough money to take my mother to the dentist."
This spring, Ms. Nicholson said she visited a private Durham elementary school to play Spent with a class of fourth graders. The students had a spirited debate over whether to pay $15 to send a child on a school field trip. When they finally decided that the money shouldn't be spent, they were pleased - until they learned that meant that the child had to spend the day in the school office, while the rest of the class went on the outing. "They all gasped, 'Oh, no!'" Ms. Nicholson recalled.
Take a go at Spent, and let us know how you fare in the comments section.

        
Need to Save Money? Move In With Relatives
        
BankSimple to Go Live on Web Next Month
        
Citibank Adds Money-Tracking Tools to Online Banking
        
Cutting Back (But Not on Coffee!) To Save Money
        
The Ever-Shifting Balance Between Resources and Dreams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%) Budgeting

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



495 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1786 words

HEADLINE: Who Are the 99%? Ways to Teach About Occupy Wall Street

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH, HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO and KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Ten different activities for introducing Occupy Wall Street to students. 

 BODY:
Overview | Why are protesters occupying Wall Street? What are they protesting, and what are their goals? In this lesson, students are introduced to Occupy Wall Street and then investigate the movement more deeply.
Warm-Up | Provide students with the following six slogans that have been displayed on placards during demonstrations being staged as part of a political movement. (At this point, do not identify the movement; you may also want to obscure the fact that the movement is contemporary.) Invite the class to guess which movement the placards are from.
"Democracy Not Corporatization"
"End the Oligarchy"
"Human Need Not Corporate Greed"
"Jobs, Justice and Education"
"Save the American Dream"
"We are the 99%"
Elicit or reveal that the slogans have been displayed at a series of protests called Occupy Wall Street. 
Alternatively or additionally, have the class take the Opinionator blog's Occupy Wall Street quiz. And if desired, show photographs and/or video (above) of protests in downtown Manhattan and elsewhere around the country. Invite students to share their impressions.
Ask: Based on what you may have heard and on these slogans, what do you think the activists are protesting? What do you think they care about and want? If desired, note that the protesters and their adherents oppose corporate greed, social inequity and other disparities between rich and poor. What other movements and protests does this one remind you of, and why?
Related | Students read the Times Topics page overview of the Occupy Wall Street protests focusing on the following questions:
Occupy Wall Street is a diffuse group of activists who say they stand against corporate greed, social inequality and other disparities between rich and poor. On Sept. 17, 2011, the group began a loosely organized protest in New York's financial district, encamping in Zuccotti Park, a privately owned park open to the public, in Lower Manhattan.
The idea, according to some organizers, was to camp out for weeks or even months to replicate the kind, if not the scale, of protests that had erupted earlier in 2011 in places as varied as Egypt, Spain and Israel.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Do you think that there is a central message of protestors at Occupy Wall Street? If so, what would you say it is? What leads you to believe that this is the central message? If you think that there is no one central message, what do you think is holding these protestors together?
        
From what you have read, what would you classify as the most important events of the protests thus far? Why do you think these events were the most important?
        
How would you characterize the police response to the protests? Do you think that the police overreacted or enacted an appropriate response? Defend your position.
        
What more do you want to know about these protests?
        
Would you consider joining these protests? Why or why not?
Activity | The following activities approach the Occupy Wall Street movement from a variety of angles. Choose the activity or activity set that best aligns with your curricular goals.
Investigate the History of the Protests: Read about the history of the protests. What sparked the first protest? When and where did it begin? How has it changed over time? What has remained the same? What controversies have arisen? What helped the protests grow and spread? What organizations have gotten involved? How is the movement different now than when it first started? How is it continuing to evolve? Create a paper or interactive timeline illustrating important events that sparked, changed or grew the movement, then analyze the movement's development.
Debate the Movement's Potential: Examine different opinions on whether the Occupy Wall Street protests could help bring about political and economic change. Use our Debatable Issues graphic organizer (PDF) to keep track of arguments. Hold a debate over the protest's potential.
Compare Occupy Wall Street With Other Movements: Two major American political and economic movements today are Occupy Wall Street and the Tea Party. Is Occupy Wall Street the left's answer to the Tea Party? Or does it have a long way to go before it gains that kind of legitimacy and power? Find out similarities and differences exist between the two movements, and between these movements and past social protest movements in United States history. Or, to broaden the perspective, compare Occupy Wall Street with social movements around the world, like the Arab Spring and the anti-austerity protests in Greece, taking into consideration how the world sees Occupy Wall Street.
Connect the Protests to the Economy: What are the facts and figures underlying Occupy Wall Street's focus on the top 1 percent of the economy? What economic conditions helped give rise to the movement? What is the government doing to stimulate job growth and address declining incomes? How do Americans feel about the economy overall? Choose a specific data set related to the economy and see whether it can be traced in some way to the rhetoric and goals of Occupy Wall Street. If you were participating in the protests, how would you use that data to make a point? If you were a politician wanting to address that issue, how would you do it? If desired, register where you fall on the interactive feature "What's Your Economic Outlook?"
Place the Movement Along the Political Continuum: Many Occupy Wall Street participants have identified themselves as neither Democrat nor Republican; some call themselves anarchists. Where do the ideas and ideals fall on the political spectrum? How are politicians responding? How might the movement start to affect political rhetoric and the 2012 presidential race? Write two political speeches designed to address the movement, one from the right and the other from the left.
Investigate the Role of Digital Tools: What role has social media played in organizing the Occupy Wall Street protests? How do the approaches taken by the Wall Street occupiers compare to those of other movements, like protests that sparked the Arab Spring, and the London Riots? Look at how organizers and supporters have used Pastebin, Storify, Twitter, Tumblr, Meetup and other digital tools, along with some more traditional means of disseminating information. How is social media changing the way that the movement is documented, defined, organized and discussed? Create an infographic or interactive presentation that illustrates how social media has been used in this grassroots movement as a tool to organize, define and amplify it.
Brand the Movement: Examine the Occupy Wall Street logos that some graphic designers have created. Discuss whether or not you think that the Occupy Wall Street protests should have an official logo. What messages do each of the logos in the Times feature convey? Which logo best aligns with the movement itself? Create your own logo for the movement and write a paragraph about how you think it represents the Occupy Wall Street protests.
Consider Law Enforcement: Examine how the police response to the Occupy Wall Street protests has fueled the movement's spread. Watch the video of a peaceful protester being pepper sprayed. Discuss how this image might influence the public's perception of the protesters. Read about how police responses to protests in the past have shaped public opinion as well as influenced protesters' resolve. Write a letter to New York's police commissioner or mayor describing what you believe is the role of the police and local government during peaceful protests, drawing on current and historical examples taken from news coverage. What steps should law enforcement take if the protests turn violent
Investigate the Local Impact of a Major Protest: Examine the map of Lower Manhattan that shows how protesters turned Zuccotti Park into a protest camp. How large is the space? How large are the crowds? What needs do they have - food, shelter, etc. - and how are they meeting those needs in public spaces? What issues are arising as a result? What is it like to work and live in an area "occupied" by a protest? Analyze local impact in various terms, including business, residents, sanitation and other costs, and so on.
Occupy Wall Street, Local Edition: The Occupy Wall Street protests have begun occurring in cities and campuses across the country. Find out whether anyone is involved in your community. If the movement has spread to your town or a nearby city, read local coverage of the protests and, if possible, interview one or more participants. If there are any counter-protesters, interview them as well. Write an article for your school newspaper about how the Occupy Wall Street protests are playing out in your community.
Going Further | Students continue to track the Occupy Wall Street story and how it evolves as well as how it is covered in The New York Times and other news outlets.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Behavioral Studies
1. Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior.
2. Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership and different ways that groups function.
4. Understands conflict, cooperation, and interdependence among individuals, groups and institutions.

Technology
3. Understands the relationships among science, technology, society, and the individual.
Economics
1. Understands that scarcity of productive resources requires choices that generate opportunity costs.
2. Understands characteristics of different economic systems, economic institutions, and economic incentives.
3. Understands the concept of prices and the interaction of supply and demand in a market economy.
4. Understands basic features of market structures and exchanges.
5. Understands unemployment, income, and income distribution in a market economy.
6. Understands the roles government plays in the United States economy.
7. Understands savings, investment and interest rates.
8. Understands basic concepts of United States fiscal policy and monetary policy.
9. Understands how Gross Domestic Product and inflation and deflation provide indications of the state of the economy.
United States History
31. Understands economic, social, and cultural developments in the contemporary United States.

        
The White Shirts and the Protesters
        
Sept. 12, 1977 | Anti-Apartheid Leader Steve Biko Dies in Police Custody
        
Aug. 18, 1963 | James Meredith Graduates From Mississippi
        
Aug. 11, 1965 | Riots in the Watts Section of Los Angeles
        
The Events in Libya: Using Reporting and Multimedia to Understand News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); RIOTS (60%); MONETARY POLICY (59%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (59%) Occupy Wall Street; political movements; protests; social protest; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; American History; Civics; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Economics; Fiscal and Monetary Policy; Individual Rights; Journalism; Lesson Plans; Markets and Economic Indicators; Media Studies; Personal Economics; Popular Culture; The Influence of the Mass Media; The Internet as a Medium; Witnessing History

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



496 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Forging a Life-Changing Bond

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: By helping at risk children early in their lives, a long-term mentoring program pays society back many times over. 

 BODY:
On Friday, I reported on an organization called Friends of the Children, which identifies children in kindergarten growing up in poverty and facing multiple risk factors at home and in their neighborhood - and then connects them with adult mentors for 12 years. The idea is to guarantee that these children have a consistent relationship with a caring and responsible adult whom they see at least four hours each week, from kindergarten until high school graduation.
Friends has demonstrated on a modest scale that such relationships can be powerful: to date, of the 140 young people who have completed the full program, five out of every six have graduated from high school, 90 percent stay out of trouble with the law and 95 percent avoid early pregnancy and parenting. The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development is now funding a randomized controlled trial of Friends to evaluate and understand its results. The findings could influence other mentoring programs around the country.
In addition to its long-term approach, two differences between Friends and other mentoring programs are that its mentors are full time employees, not volunteers, and they commit to a minimum of three years, rather than one. Throughout the 12-year period, most of the children will have just three different mentors - which gives each one time to establish a trusting relationship. Because of this approach, the cost per child is higher than volunteer-based programs - currently $9,000 per child per year. I asked readers whether society should bear this cost. They said yes.
"If society isn't willing to pay $9,000 per year for this, then we're going to continue to pay billions per year to incarcerate millions," wrote Michael K, from New York (10). "It seems to me that this is the cheap solution." One of the obstacles, noted Dana, from Milford, Pa. (5) is getting policy makers to think differently. "Unfortunately, this country doesn't have a great track record of investing in preventative interventions that are clearly shown to reduce the ultimate cost to society," she wrote.
According to data supplied by Friends, during its 10-year history in New York, none of the 120 children it mentored there have dropped out of school. The expected drop out rate for this demographic is higher than 25 percent. During the decade, only two youths have gotten involved with the juvenile justice system and only one has become a teen parent. Based on government data, one would have predicted those figures to be four to six times higher.
Everyone knows that it is far more effective and cost-effective to help children develop in a healthy manner than to have to support or rehabilitate them as adults. But how much more cost-effective could it be? Mark Chussil, from Oregon (34) helped Friends put a dollar figure to the savings. He co-led a pro bono project through the Community Partners program of the Harvard Business School Association of Oregon which determined that for each child that Friends assisted, society would save $838,030 - roughly $715,000 more than the program costs - largely because the students are more likely to contribute to society than to become dependent on public resources or involved with crime.
As an investment, that's close to a 700 percent return. "The program reaches break-even a very few years after a child graduates," noted Chussil. "If a for-profit business could show results like that, we'd be lining up to buy stock in it." (The only intervention I've come across that can beat this return is investing in early childhood education, as the economist James Heckman has argued.)
The core of Friends is the quality of the bond between the mentors and the children or youth. I visited the Friends house, a lively basement flat on 113th street in Harlem recently and spent time with Christian Fernandez, 15, who is in the 10th grade, and his mentor, Jeremie Knight, 27, a graduate of Florida A&M, who had studied juvenile justice and previously worked in an organization involved in foster care prevention. "I saw that a lot of kids didn't seem to have anyone in their corner," Jeremie recalled. "Everybody needs help - everybody."
Jeremie and Christian have been together for four years and it was obvious that they have a warm and genuine relationship. They spoke about trips they'd taken together, including a recent one to a college campus. Jeremie gently ribbed Christian about his left hand dribbling and Christian said he'd been working on it. It was clear he looked up to Jeremie. I asked Christian how Jeremie had influenced him. "He helped me socialize and gave me a lot of help with my education," he said.
In the previous year, Christian added, he'd gotten into a pattern of cutting class, smoking and focusing more on girls than school. Jeremie helped him refocus on his studies. "Without him, I probably wouldn't be as on top of school as I am now," he said. I asked him if any specific incidents stood out. While he pondered the question, Jeremie interjected with a smile: "Remember Mr. V.'s class?"
That brought a laugh from the two of them - and Christian recalled his sixth grade science class. Sixth grade is a threshold year for many children - it's the first year of middle school, which brings heavier academic and social pressures, and it's when many children who fall behind drop out of school emotionally, even if they don't physically stop showing up until high school. Christian had a conflict with Mr. V., who he thought disliked him. "I never paid attention, I was a jokester," he recalled. "I just tried to aggravate him for the class to laugh. I was just destructive in that class."
Jeremie sat in on the class a few times and then helped Christian think about how his behavior affected his friends and could damage his future. He helped him understand how to "codeshift" - recognizing that behavior that's fine with friends is not appropriate in school. Christian listened, settled down, and passed the class.
When I asked Jeremie the most important thing he had learned from mentoring, he said: "You've got to let the kid be comfortable being who they are. Don't have a specific idea of what you want the kid to be." Robert Houck, who directs the Friends office in New York, added that the most important quality for a mentor is the ability to listen. "Many adults don't know how to listen to youth," he explained. He noted that some mentors do better with young kids and some connect best with older ones. "Only about 25 percent work equally well with both groups," he said.
Another benefit of establishing a long-term mentoring relationship is that the trust gets extended to the whole family. Jeremie has a good rapport with Christian's mother, Yvette Pimintel, and together they discuss Christian's progress in school and his development. "His mentor can take him to places where I would normally not take him because I don't enjoy it - basketball games, baseball games, museums," Pimintel told me. "Christian's had three mentors and he's loved them all. And they're always checking up on him, making sure he's doing what he's supposed to do, something I can't do because I'm at work."
Because mentors enjoy the trust of families, they often get more truthful information about home life than public agencies, and they can use their influence to encourage parents to sign up for parenting classes, home safety programs, or services for addiction or domestic violence. In New York, Friends collaborates with 70 organizations which provide families with a wide range of "wraparound" services, everything from crisis intervention to mental health to summer camps.
Lindsey K. Robertson, Friends' Clinical and Education Director in New York, added that it's critical to find mentors who do not prejudge the families they serve. "If they use phrases like deadbeat dad, hopeless or useless mom, it tells us that their expectations about the situation may limit their effectiveness and creativity. When you have those attitudes, you often give up on people - and you don't get to see what's really possible."
Creating a human lifeline is a smarter way to help struggling families than to take the punitive approach. Unfortunately, public policies often get enacted out of moralistic and careless impulses that are politically expedient. That's the case today, for example, with states forcing people to undergo drug testing in order to receive benefits like welfare, unemployment assistance and food stamps. When people fail the tests, it's usually because they smoked marijuana. Such punitive measures alienate families from government and intensify the stress on parents who are already overwhelmed - while doing nothing to help them address their problems. This increases the risk that their children will suffer from more dislocations and abuse.
Bringing a caring and resourceful adult into a family in crisis can offer new ideas and perspectives, and challenge people to solve their own problems. Jeremie told me that his biggest surprise as a mentor wasn't seeing transformations among the children - he expected that - but among the parents who subsequently took steps to improve their lives.
We all need examples and models to imagine new possibilities, especially if our experience has been severely limited. Houck told me that some of the children served by Friends in New York had never seen Central Park before their mentor took them there. And Robertson recalled the reaction of a young boy who was taken on a visit to the Big Apple Circus: "He said the fountain at Lincoln Center was the most wonderful place he'd ever seen. Then when he entered the circus tent and saw the lights, he literally burst into tears. It was so bright and beautiful, he said. He'd never seen anything like it. He just couldn't believe it."

        
For Children at Risk, Mentors Who Stay
        
Rock Is Not the Enemy
        
Beyond Baby Mozart, Students Who Rock
        
Can Big Food Regulate Itself? Fat Chance
        
Mobilizing the Playground Movement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PARENTING (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (52%) children; Families and Family Life; Mentors; National Institute of Child Health and Human Development; Friends of the Children; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (91%) National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



497 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: The Avante-Garde Arrives in Montclair, at Adara

BYLINE: GLENN COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: "Montclair is a food-savvy town, and I think there is a lot of curiosity now about edge cuisine," said Tre Ghoshal, the chef and owner. 

 BODY:
Does Montclair, N.J., hunger for a restaurant whose mission statement promises to explore "the relationship between food, art and technology"? 
At Adara, which opens Wednesday on Montclair's haute restaurant drag, Walnut Street, Tre Ghoshal will become perhaps the first chef in the Garden State to fly the flag of molecular gastronomy.
"Montclair is a food-savvy town, and I think there is a lot of curiosity now about edge cuisine," Mr. Ghoshal said to a visitor at a pre-opening dinner on Monday night. He showed off the tools of his trade, including an industrial-sized liquid nitrogen tank for flash-freezing, an immersion circulator and an anti-griddle cooktop for low-temperature cooking and a smoking gun for adding smoky flavor to foods before or after cooking. 
On the menu were samples of some of the restaurant's fare, including: yellowtail hamachi with wasabi marshmallow and masago and tobiko caviar; a filet mignon anticucho with Peruvian-inspired pepper sauce and fried leeks; lamb loin in harissa and honey with mint crema; smoky baba ganoush with dehydrated picholine olives and goat yogurt; two different carbonated brioches with cardamom butter, and an Indian rasam-spice gazpacho with saffron foam and a nasturtium garnish. 
The advent of molecular gastronomy in the suburbs was initially greeted with raised eyebrows on some Manhattan food blogs, but Mr. Ghoshal, who is 30, said he has the highest aspirations for the restaurant, adding that his cuisine has been inspired by Wylie Dufresne, Grant Achatz and Ferran Adria. "But it isn't from their playbook, this is different, my own interpretation," he said. 
Some practitioners have rejected the term molecular gastronomy as elitist and unnecessarily complex, but, Mr. Ghoshal said, "We're calling it molecular gastronomy because, in the marketplace, that's a point of difference," he said, "but really this is new American cooking using nontraditional techniques."
He added: "I hope our restaurant will demystify molecular gastronomy, because this cuisine has robust flavor, balance and is global-influenced - and these are ingredients used through time immemorial. It's not magic, at the end of the day, it's just food." 
Mr. Ghoshal, who was born in the United States, said his cooking was strongly influenced by the East Indian roots of his family in Calcutta. He previously cooked in Market and Nouveau Sushi in Montclair, as well as the Savoy Grille in Newark, the Rotunda in Paramus, N.J., Davio's Italian in Philadelphia and the Eureka Inn in Eureka, Calif. 
He envisions an average check cost of $65 to $68, not including wine (the restaurant is a bring-your-own establishment). Adara - a name that the chef translates as "love" - also offers a collection of nonalcoholic "mocktails," espresso drinks and a "tea boutique." 
In addition to a la carte dining, the restaurant will offer a three-course prix-fixe menu for $59, a five-course "Tour" for $79, a seven-course meal for $105 and a twelve-course "Grand Tour" menu for $165.
 Is it too upscale for a downmarket era? "Everyone is concerned about the economy at this time," Mr. Ghoshal said, "but I think that if you do something different, you can be successful. And this is different." 

        
Reviewing Graffit
        
Something More Familiar Will Replace Il Matto
        
Nathan Myhrvold Delays Book, Apologizes to Santa
        
Adria Elaborates on El Bulli's Future
        
El Bulli to Close Permanently

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%) Adara; avant-garde cuisine; molecular gastronomy; Montclair; Tre Ghosal; Restaurants

GEOGRAPHIC: EUREKA, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); KOLKATA, INDIA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



498 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The High-Occupancy Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: When hybrids were banished from H.O.V. lanes in California in July to make room for plug-in vehicles, freeways became more congested, a recent study found. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 According to researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, revoking high-occupancy-vehicle, or H.O.V., lane privileges for solitary drivers of hybrids has only slowed and thickened traffic on Bay Area freeways. To encourage adoption of partial zero-emissions vehicles like the Nissan Leaf and Prius Plug-In Hybrid, California banished solitary drivers of older hybrid vehicles from the lane in July. (The San Francisco Chronicle)
 Jalopnik noted on Monday that Amazon and Best Buy were selling a Blu-Ray version of "Senna," the 2010 documentary about Ayrton Senna, the three-time Formula One champion, for nearly $700. The Amazon purchase page for the item says that it is out of stock. On the British version of the e-commerce site, a box set including a 1:12 scale model of Senna's JPS Lotus racecar, a DVD and a photography supplement is listed for 262.49, or about $410. (Jalopnik)
 Edmunds reported Monday that American sales of so-called advanced-drive vehicles, or cars and S.U.V.'s with hybrid, plug-in and other nonconventional propulsion systems, dropped in September by 15.1 percent relative to their levels a year ago. Meanwhile, sales of conventional gasoline- and diesel-powered vehicles rose by 10.1 percent over their levels in September 2010. The report attributed the decline to the price premium associated with hybrid and plug-in hybrid vehicles at a time of waning consumer confidence. (Edmunds)
 Amid the European debt crisis, sales of Chrysler vehicles are buoying Fiat, its corporate parent, Bloomberg reports. Sales of Fiat-brand vehicles have been declining in part, the report said, because the parent's American subsidiary has benefited from resources, including the attention of senior management, that otherwise would have been dedicated to revitalizing Fiat's aging model lineup. (Bloomberg)
 Mazda will bid farewell to its rotary-engined RX-8 sports car with the Spirit R, an edition available only to customers in Japan. The automaker expects to sell 1,000 units of the model and offers distinct trim levels for both manual and automatic transmission builds. The manual, for example, receives specially branded Recaro seats and 19-inch bronze alloy wheels, while the automatic is fitted with black leather seats with red stitching and 18-inch gunmetal alloys. Mazda also pledged to continue development of the rotary engine, despite taking the RX-8, the only model that used the power plant, out of series production. (Mazda)

        
'Retired' Bob Lutz Adds Via Motors to His Brand Advisory Portfolio
        
Wheelies: The Double-Charged Edition
        
Big Three Increase Their Financial Footprint on Woodward Dream Cruise
        
Hybrid 'Old Garde' in California Loses H.O.V. Lane Privileges
        
Wheelies: The Purse Strings Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); POWER PLANTS (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (53%); DEBT CRISIS (50%); EURO CRISIS (50%) ayrton senna; California; Chrysler; fiat; HOV; hybrids; mazda; plug-in hybrid; RX 8; Senna, Ayrton; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Roads and Traffic; Amazon.com Inc; Best Buy Company Incorporated; Chrysler LLC; Fiat SpA; Formula One; Mazda Motor Corp; University of California, Berkeley; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Best Buy Company Incorporated|BBY|NYSE; Fiat SpA|FIATY|other-OTC; Mazda Motor Corp|MZDAF|other-OTC; Electric Vehicles; entertainment; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News; Motorsports; Scale models

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (93%) Amazon.com Inc; Best Buy Company Incorporated; Chrysler LLC; Fiat SpA; Formula One; Mazda Motor Corp; University of California, Berkeley

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (83%); F (BIT) (83%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Best Buy Company Incorporated; BBY; NYSE; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Best Buy Company Incorporated; BBY; NYSE; Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Best Buy Company Incorporated; BBY; NYSE; Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC; Mazda Motor Corp; MZDAF; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%)

PERSON: Senna, Ayrton

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



499 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Worsening Attitudes

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Americans have given their economy a vote of no confidence. 

 BODY:
Americans have given their economy a vote of no confidence. Or at least, very little confidence.
Gallup's latest survey shows that Americans are considerably more pessimistic now than they were a year ago. Here's a chart showing Gallup's Economic Confidence Index for 2010 and 2011:
The index is based on daily interviews with 500 adults across the country, or about 3,500 people each week. Respondents are asked whether the economy is getting better or worse, and whether current economic conditions are "excellent," "good," "only fair" or "poor." For each question, Gallup subtracts the percentage of people answering negatively from the percentage of people answering positively. 
Then the two results are averaged to come up with a value that Gallup calls the Economic Confidence Index. A negative index value means that Americans are more pessimistic, and a positive value means they are more optimistic.
As you can see, the latest index measure was negative 49 (with a margin of error of 2 percentage points), compared to negative 29 a year ago.
Americans have been down on the economy for several years now. The index hit its recession-era monthly low of negative 60 in October 2008, and the highest level it has touched since then was a mere negative 21 (this past January).
These trends are concerning because worries about a poor economy can become self-fulfilling (or at least, self-perpetuating). If people believe the economy will get worse, they'll hold back on spending and hiring, causing the economy to actually get worse. 

        
Washington, Capital of Economic Optimism
        
Losing Faith in Government
        
Job Insecurity Remains High
        
Confidence in Banks at a Record Low
        
Rich People Are More Optimistic

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) consumer confidence; Gallup; polling; Economic Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



500 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: 99 Percenters and 53 Percenters Face Off

BYLINE: SHAILA DEWAN


HIGHLIGHT: Two opposing blogs document the complaints of those who object to the concentration of wealth and those who object to people who don't pay income taxes. 

 BODY:
Welfare. Food stamps. Bankruptcy and minimum wage. Those are a few of the complaints of those in We Are the 99 Percent, a Tumblr blog recording the stories of those who sympathize with the Occupy Wall Street protests.
But wait. Those are also the complaints in We Are the 53%, a counterblog that is meant as a conservative retort to the protestors. The site, which mimics the 99 Percenters by having people write out their stories and hold them up to be photographed, says it is by "Those of us who pay for those of you who whine about all of that."
What's with all the percentages? The 99 Percenters are objecting to the fact that 1 percent of Americans control about a third of the country's wealth. The 53 Percenters are portraying themselves as the responsible citizens who pay federal income tax, as opposed to the 47 percent of Americans who don't. (Most who don't are exempt because their incomes are too low or they get tax breaks aimed at low-income working families and other groups.) At The Washington Post Wonkblog, Ezra Klein pointed out that that many people paid no taxes because of conservative pressure to lower them.
The 99 Percenters, who have given a voice to the decentralized protests, tell of accumulated student debt, unaffordable health insurance and a sense of despair. "I followed the rules now here I am," wrote a 30-year-old unemployed woman who said she could not afford marriage or children.
The 53 Percenters, on the other hand, say things like, "My faith in God has always helped me weather the storms of life, not a government hand out."
But the 53 Percent do not seem, by and large, to be doing much better than the 99 Percent. "I work 60+ hours a week with no guarantee of a paycheck," wrote one contributor. "I didn't blame Wall Street when I couldn't find a living wage job or make it as a musician."
Another self-employed man wrote, "I don't get vacations, sick leave or comp time."
The 53 Percent site was the brainchild of Erick Erickson, a CNN commentator and editor of RedState, Josh Trevino, a co-founder of RedState who is now at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, and Mike Wilson, the filmmaker behind "Michael Moore Hates America," who started the Tumblr site after #iamthe53 became a popular Twitter hash tag for critics of the Wall Street protests.
"The distinction is that the people on the 99 side are saying, 'We need to change it so that my life is easier,' and the people on the 53 side say, 'My life may not be easy, but it's mine,'" Mr. Wilson said.
Do the 53 percent find no fault with the banks? "A friend of mine said it best - he's a conservative," Mr. Wilson said. "He said, 'They're mad because these corporations got bailed out. We're mad because our government bailed out the corporations.'"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); CHILDREN (79%); FAMILY (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%) Federal Taxes (US); United States Economy; Occupy Wall Street

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



501 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Stanford Teams With City College (Think Engineering School)

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The university hopes that starting a joint-degree program with City College will enhance its bid to create an engineering school in New York. 

 BODY:
In the chess match to determine which university will get a chance to build a graduate school of applied sciences on public land in New York City, Stanford is trying what might be called a C.C.N.Y. stratagem.
Seeking a competitive advantage over Cornell and other universities with a presence in the city, Stanford announced on Tuesday that it would experiment with a joint-degree program with City College. To be known as Stanford@CCNY, the program would demonstrate how a partnership between the two institutions might work if Stanford wins the competition that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has set up.
Universities have until the end of October to submit detailed proposals for establishing a campus in the city. Most of the institutions that have expressed interest, including Stanford, have set their sights on several acres on Roosevelt Island in the East River.
If Stanford's proposal is chosen, the pilot project would expand to offer joint-degree programs to "highly qualified" undergraduate students at City College, the institutions said. 
"We believe there is tremendous potential through our partnership with CUNY to bring Stanford's curriculum to some of the best and brightest students in New York and to help them go on to make significant economic contributions to New York City and New York State," John L. Hennessy, the president of Stanford, said in a statement.
Lisa Coico, the president of City College, said many of the details still have to be worked out between the two schools, but that she expected some City College students to start taking classes in Stanford's entrepreneurship and technology management curricula next fall. If Stanford wins the contest, Ms. Coico said, "We will be giving space to Stanford to be able to jump start its campus very quickly."
Luring a school as prestigious as Stanford to build its first degree-granting campus anywhere in the country outside its home in Palo Alto, Calif., could be a crowning achievement for the mayor's third term. But Stanford faces a formidable rival in Cornell, which is based upstate in Ithaca and already operates a highly regarded medical school in Manhattan.
Linking with a local school would help Stanford earn points in the grading of the applications, which are due to the city's Economic Development Corporation by Oct. 28. The city has offered to contribute as much as $100 million in capital to the chosen project. City officials hope to choose a winner before the end of the year.

        
Spitzer to Donate Teaching Salary
        
Study Says Higher-Wage Bill for City Projects Would Cost Jobs
        
City Agencies Are Told to Cut Costs by $2 Billion
        
Like Putin, Like Bloomberg
        
Bloomberg to Testify at Trial of Consultant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) City College of New York; City University of New York; Higher Education; Michael Bloomberg; Michael R. Bloomberg; Stanford University; Colleges and Universities; New York City; Highlights

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%) City College of New York; Stanford University

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



502 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Cain Tax Plan

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Herman Cain has provided few details of his 9-9-9 tax plan, but what he has made public makes little sense, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
With recent polls showing increased support for Herman Cain as the G.O.P. presidential nominee, attention is being drawn to his platform, especially what he calls the 9-9-9 tax plan. News reports describe it as a 9 percent tax rate on business and personal income, combined with a 9 percent national sales tax.
Little detail has been released by the Cain campaign, so it's impossible to do a thorough analysis. But using what is available on Mr. Cain's Web site, I'm taking a stab at estimating its effects.
First, the 9-9-9 plan is actually an intermediate step in Mr. Cain's plan to overhaul the tax system and jump-start growth. Phase 1 would reduce individual and business taxes to a maximum of 25 percent, which I assume means reducing the top statutory tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent.
No mention is made on the site of a tax cut for those now in the 10 percent, 15 percent or 25 percent brackets. This means that the only people who would get a tax rate cut are those now in the 28 percent, 33 percent or 35 percent brackets. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, only 4 percent of taxpayers pay any taxes at those rates.

As for corporations, Mr. Cain's proposal is primarily going to benefit those with revenues of more than $1 million a year, because they account for 98.7 percent of all receipts by C corporations. (A C corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its owners that is taxed as a corporation; its shareholders pay taxes individually on their gains.) Those companies with receipts over $50 million account for 88.8 percent of total receipts.
Other business entities - sole proprietorships, S corporations (which have between 1 and 100 shareholders and pass through net income or losses to shareholders) and partnerships - would not benefit because they are not taxed on the corporate schedule. But they represent 92 percent of all businesses.
Second, Mr. Cain would eliminate all taxes on profits earned by multinational corporations outside the United States. It's hard to know the impact of this provision, but according to Martin Sullivan, an economist with Tax Analysts, the 50 largest corporations in the United States generated half of their profits in other countries.
The actual benefit of Mr. Cain's proposal would be much greater to many of them, because, according to Mr. Sullivan, while some of these 50 companies have no foreign operations, others derive 100 percent of their gross profits in foreign countries. In 2010 these included Philip Morris, Pfizer and Abbott Laboratories.
Third, Mr. Cain would abolish all taxes on capital gains. Such taxes typically generate more than $100 billion in federal revenue annually, according to the Tax Policy Center. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, two-thirds of all capital gains are reported by those with incomes over $1 million.
Mr. Cain says these three proposals, which he would put into effect immediately without offsetting the lost revenue, will jump-start economic growth. He offers no evidence for this assertion; it is simply put forward as self-evident. But the experience of the George W. Bush administration was that cuts in tax rates on the wealthy and on capital gains had no effect whatsoever on growth, according to the Congressional Research Service.
And this is only Phase 1 of the Cain plan. In Phase 2, the payroll tax would be eliminated, causing more than $800 billion in revenue to evaporate. The estate and gift tax would be abolished, further reducing taxes on the wealthy. And the 9-9-9 plan would be implemented.
It's important to understand that the 9 percent rates on personal and business income would apply to very different tax bases than now exist. For individuals, the tax would apply to gross income less only the deduction for charitable contributions. No mention is made of a personal exemption.
This means that the 47 percent of tax filers who now pay no federal income taxes will pay 9 percent on their total income. And elimination of the payroll tax won't even help half of them because the earned income tax credit, which Mr. Cain would abolish, offsets both their income tax liability and their payroll tax payment as well.
Additionally, everyone would now pay a 9 percent sales tax on all purchases. No mention is made of any exemptions from this tax, so we may assume that it will apply to food, medical care, rent, home and auto purchases and a wide variety of other expenditures now exempt from state sales taxes. This would increase their cost of living by 9 percent while, at the same time, the poor would pay income taxes.
The business tax in the Cain plan bears no resemblance to the present corporate income tax. The tax would apply to gross sales less dividends paid and all purchases from other companies, including investment goods. Thus, there would be no deduction for wages.
How benefits would be treated is unclear, because purchases of things like health insurance might constitute a purchase from another company and remain deductible. If so, what is to stop a company from paying its employees by leasing their cars and homes for them and even buying their food and clothing? That would reduce their taxable revenue.
The abolition of any deduction for wages is likely to raise the cost of employing workers, even with abolition of the employers' share of the payroll tax. And since the dividend deduction doesn't appear to be related to profitability, companies could borrow to pay dividends and still get the deduction. Even a novice tax lawyer could easily make a tax shelter out of that.
And here's the kicker in the Cain plan. Phase 2 is merely a transition to yet another fundamental tax reform. In Phase 3, the United States would adopt the so-called Fair Tax, which would replace all federal taxes with a 30 percent sales tax on all goods and services. In a previous post, I explained why the Fair Tax is a bad idea. I went into more detail in testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee on July 26.
Whatever one thinks of the Fair Tax, it makes not the slightest bit of sense to have a plan that requires fundamental changes to the federal tax system twice to achieve its objective.
Veterans of tax reform attempts in the United States know reform is very difficult and time-consuming even once. If the Fair Tax is a good idea, Mr. Cain ought to just do it, without confusing the issue with his unnecessary and highly complicated 9-9-9 plan. After all, one of the prime selling points of the Fair Tax is its simplicity, and the 9-9-9 plan is far from that.
Because so little detail exists, it's hard to do either a proper revenue estimate or distributional analysis of the Cain plan. It's obvious, however, that Phase 1 would represent a huge tax cut for the wealthy at a time when federal revenues are at a historical low as a share of the gross domestic product and the economy's fundamental problem is a lack of aggregate demand.
Thus the Cain plan would increase the budget deficit without doing anything to stimulate demand, because rich people can already spend as much as they want and are unlikely to spend more even if their taxes are abolished.
The poor and the middle class might increase their spending if they could keep more of their earnings, but they will unquestionably pay more under Phase 2 of the Cain plan. With no tax on capital gains, the rich would pay almost nothing, while elimination of all deductions and credits, as well as imposition of a national sales tax, must necessarily raise taxes on everyone else, especially those not now paying income taxes.
At a minimum, the Cain plan is a distributional monstrosity. The poor would pay more while the rich would have their taxes cut, with no guarantee that economic growth will increase and good reason to believe that the budget deficit will increase.
Even allowing for the poorly thought through promises routinely made on the campaign trail, Mr. Cain's tax plan stands out as exceptionally ill conceived.

        
How to Raise Revenue Without Violating the Tax Pledge
        
Misrepresentations, Regulations and Jobs
        
The Biggest Challenge for Today's Tax Reformers
        
The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut
        
A Sales Tax on Wall Street Transactions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); TAX LAW (92%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Fair Tax; Herman Cain; Joint Committee on Taxation; politics; sales tax; tax cuts; tax haven; Taxation; taxes; Cain, Herman; Federal Taxes (US); Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Today's Economist

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (80%); A C CORP (66%); PFIZER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (80%); ABT (NYSE) (80%); ABT (LSE) (80%); ABL (FRA) (80%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (66%); SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (66%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (94%) Cain, Herman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



503 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Five Things to Watch For in the G.O.P. Debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The economy, leadership credentials and religion are among the topics to watch for in the Republican presidential debate on Tuesday night. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney enters the Republican presidential debate on Tuesday as the likeliest target of questions and criticism from rivals eager to slow the building sense of momentum behind his campaign.
The dynamics of the race have shifted considerably since the last debate, just three weeks ago. 
Until then, Mr. Romney largely managed to float above the fray during the televised debates. And when he did engage -- as he did during the last debate with Rick Perry, the Texas governor -- Mr. Romney won most of those encounters.
Mr. Perry, who was then leading the other Republican candidates in the polls, was the focus of attention during the last several debates. But his stumbling performances during those contests and other articles in the news media have blunted his fast start. In the last several polls, Mr. Romney has retaken the lead.
But with that lead comes new and sometimes unwanted attention and scrutiny.
That was made clear over the weekend as Mr. Romney's critics renewed their assault on his stance on social issues. And several of the Republican candidates dodged questions about the relevance of Mr. Romney's Mormon faith, after a prominent pastor referred to the Mormon Church as a cult and said that Mr. Romney was not a Christian.
The event on Tuesday night will be the first time the candidates have debated sitting down -- perhaps an effort by the sponsors to encourage a serious discussion. They will be seated according to poll results, and that means Mr. Romney and Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, will be next to each other.
The debate is being sponsored by Bloomberg News and The Washington Post and will start at 8 p.m. Eastern time. It will be on Bloomberg Television, Bloomberg Radio, Bloomberg.com and WBIN-TV in New Hampshire. It will also be live-streamed at PostPolitics.com.
The candidates have also been told that they will be able to ask each other questions, and that the order will go alphabetically, with Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota starting. That means several of the candidates will get a chance for questions before Mr. Romney or Mr. Perry, who will come near the end.
Here are five things to watch for on Tuesday night:
1. The Mormon question. Mr. Romney may get a break on this given that the debate is supposed to be focused entirely on economics.
That suggests that none of the questions being prepared by Bloomberg or the Post will be about Mr. Romney's faith. But debates are unpredictable. It is not impossible to imagine another candidate raising the issue in an oblique way.
It is also possible that one of the moderators might see fit to ask one of Mr. Romney's rivals whether they think a discussion about Mormonism distracts from the important economic issues facing the country.
If the issue of faith does come up, look for Mr. Romney to try and deflect it quickly -- his advisers say he has addressed it and wants to move on. One person likely to be outspoken in a discussion of Mr. Romney's faith is Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor and a fellow Mormon. He called the whole issue a "sideshow" on Monday.
2. Romney, the pinata. If Mr. Romney is able to escape a discussion of his faith, he is not likely to be so lucky on other issues, in particular health care.
Mr. Perry and the other candidates know there is a danger that Republicans will start coalescing around Mr. Romney if they judge him to be the most likely to win in a race against Mr. Obama. 
So they have begun attacking his credentials as a conservative, reviving the critique that Mr. Romney has changed positions frequently and is not authentic in his beliefs.
Mr. Perry introduced a brutal Web video on Monday showing President Obama looking in the mirror and seeing Mr. Romney's reflection. Michele Bachmann swiped at Mr. Romney last week, urging voters in Iowa not to "settle" for someone who is not a true conservative. 
But nowhere is the attack more likely than on health care, as Mr. Perry's video showed. And health care in America is a legitimate economic issue that moderators of the debate are sure to address.
3. Battle of the executives. Among the more interesting dynamics to watch on Tuesday may be the interplay between Mr. Romney and Herman Cain, a former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza. Mr. Cain has surged in the polls recently, taking second place in several surveys.
Asked about Mr. Cain's appeal during a town-hall-style meeting on Monday evening, Mr. Romney said he thought it was the fact that both men had spent time outside of government, in business.
Mr. Romney is not likely to lash out at Mr. Cain during the debate. Despite Mr. Cain's recent popularity, Mr. Romney's advisers do not see him as a long-term threat to winning the nomination.
But Mr. Cain has proven himself to be a formidable presence in speeches to conservative activists. And he is not unwilling to be blunt in his criticism of Mr. Romney or his other rivals. It is possible that Mr. Cain, sensing an opportunity in the moment, could pile on Mr. Romney.
4. Perry, race and expectations. One candidate likely to benefit from the economic focus of the debate is Mr. Perry, at least when it comes to the race issue.
Since the last debate, a Washington Post article about a hunting camp where Mr. Perry hosted guests that had a racial epithet painted on a rock at its entrance has forced Mr. Perry's campaign off message. In a normal debate, it would be an obvious topic to ask him to address.
It is possible, as with Mr. Romney's religion, that another candidate will ask Mr. Perry about the hunting camp. If so, Mr. Perry will most likely try to use the national platform to offer the explanations his campaign has given in the past - that the rock was painted over before he started going there.
But even if he does escape questions about race or the hunting camp, Mr. Perry still may not be out of the woods. In the last three debates, he got dismal reviews for appearing unprepared on several crucial issues and losing his focus. His campaign has said that this time he is devoting more time to preparation and trying to get more sleep.
Economic focus or not, the moderators and the other Republican campaigns are sure to try to test Mr. Perry to see whether he turns in a better performance, substantively and stylistically.
If he does, it may help turn around his campaign. If he has another bad night, it could further set back his fund-raising and his efforts to woo activists and establishment Republicans to his campaign.
5. Jobs and Mr. Obama. The economy should be the star of the show on Tuesday night, however, and that is likely to provide plenty of opportunity for all of the Republican candidates to criticize Mr. Obama.
In town-hall-style meetings in New Hampshire on Monday, Mr. Romney continued to call Mr. Obama a "failed" president and accused him of not understanding how the economy worked. Expect him to do more of the same.
Mr. Perry has repeatedly suggested that his experience as governor of Texas for a decade gives him unique qualifications to help the economy. And he has criticized Mr. Obama's policies as wrongheaded and ineffective.
Mrs. Bachmann is likely to be joined by the others on the stage -- Ron Paul, Newt Gingrich, and Rick Santorum -- in assailing Mr. Obama's administration for actions they say have hurt the country's economic chances.
Those include the bank bailouts, the stimulus program, the health care reform law, the Dodd-Frank efforts to regulate the banking industry and environmental regulations. Expect all of them to come up during the debate.
The question remains, however, whether any of the candidates will find the right recipe for criticizing the president and knocking their Republican rivals at the same time.
If they do, it is sure to be memorable.

        
Perry Fades Into Background in Debate
        
Romney Smiles, for Now
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
The Early Word: Who's the Real 'Change' Candidate?
        
Huckabee Critiques Romney's Debate Tactics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); RELIGION (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CULTS & SECTS (72%) debates; mitt romney; New Hampshire; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (81%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (54%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (78%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011



504 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: James Woolery of JPMorgan Surveys the M.&A. Scene

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: James Woolery, a Cravath lawyer turned JPMorgan investment banker, discusses the prospects for mergers and acquisitions with the Deal Professor. 

 BODY:
Earlier this year, James C. Woolery left one of the plum legal jobs in the world, as a partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, to become the co-head of North America mergers and acquisitions alongside Chris Ventresca at JPMorgan Chase. 
At Cravath, Mr. Woolery was one of the rising young superstars at the firm, advising Air Products on its $6 billion hostile offer for Airgas, Affiliated Computer Services in its $6.4 billion acquisition by Xerox and TXU in the largest private equity deal in history, its sale to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG.
He is off to a strong start at JPMorgan, already advising on two of the biggest deals of the year: AT&T on its $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA and Meco Health Solutions in a $29.1 billion acquisition by Express Scripts. 
 While Jim Woolery, a Kentucky native, will not admit whether he misses the private dining room for Cravath partners or is working harder now at JPMorgan, he was quite open about the challenges and rewards of his new job when I spoke with him last week. 
Q.
A.
JPMorgan is a large, diverse company. The number of different people I come into contact with, internally and externally, in a given week is enormous. I enjoy the people side of the business -- so it's a plus. Cravath is an amazing firm. By definition, you are deeply involved in a fixed number of client projects there -- rewarding work. The number of people you interact with in the job is greater here. 
Q.
A.
Very useful. Every transaction has a financial and a legal side to it. To marry the two in a way that prioritizes issues for the client and achieves the client's goals is helpful to me -- and more importantly is of great value to the client. The law -- and great lawyering -- is a worthwhile, important profession. It is very important to folks who have spent time in the practice - regardless of their career path.
Q.
A.
I spend a good part of the day with clients of JPMorgan -- whether they are engaged in a transaction or not. I travel a fair bit -- so the old saw about bankers and airplanes is true. I spend the balance of my time with my partners across the company -- Jimmy Lee in the investment bank, Doug Petno and Rob Holmes in the commercial bank, John Duffy in the private bank, Jim Casey and Andy O'Brien in leveraged finance, Isabelle Seillier and Severin Brizay in Paris, and so on. We are in a unique position to deliver JPMorgan across industries, across products and across regions. In order to do that, we maintain an incredibly active dialogue with each other, and in between all of that, my partner, Chris Ventresca, and I spend time on the M.&A. floor every day, in the analyst bullpen and in the managing directors' offices. There is simply no substitute for personal interaction in our business.
Q.
A.
This business is extremely competitive. To win a pitch, you have to demonstrate that you have the team and the ideas to deliver for the client. You also have to sell it straight -- some of the best advice we give is not to do a deal. So put M.&A. with capital markets, industry know-how, rollout capability, market and investor relations, senior JPMorgan leadership and stay with it -- and you will be successful. I find I pitch better when I let my partners do most of the talking.
Q.
A.
Both deals are in review and the clients are managing the process, so I would defer to them to comment specifically. I will say in general that antitrust policy in this country should be struck in terms of what is good for consumers and what will enhance a consumer-centric economy. 
You cannot benefit the consumer by locking up the economy. Our businesses must be fit to compete in a global arena. Given the velocity of the global economy, we must be careful not to fight the last war in terms of policy, but the government has a job to do -- that it is mandated to do -- and it's a process. Patience with the process is a necessity.
Q.
A.
Strategic advisory skills are crucial to achieving an M.&A. role. Clients are sophisticated. They can choose financing banks and M.&A. advisers. If it were otherwise, boutiques would not exist. So the notion that providing the balance sheet delivers the M.&A. role is just plain wrong -- and the numbers bear that out. We have more sell-side assignments this year with no financing role than we have assignments with financing -- and we still lead the tables when you take out deals with our financing. Having said that, combining M.&A. advice with financing advice -- particularly in these challenging markets -- is a winning combination. You need both to deliver a complete advisory service to clients.
Q.
A.
This market is trading on macro concerns that have a political and regulatory genesis. The market wants clarity and resolution. It will be a bumpy ride for a few months -- with continued volatility -- and then the market will begin to look to the U.S. elections in the spring for direction. What is different now versus 2009 is that many companies are well capitalized with access to attractive financing. Investors want that capital deployed to achieve growth, including through synergistic, scale, core acquisitions. The market has rewarded buyers who move in that direction.
We have many clients who want to play offense in these markets to drive shareholder value. So deals will occur and will gather steam into the second quarter of next year. But overall deal volume will probably be challenging until the market gets the clarity it wants and equity values level off. The sooner we get clarity, the sooner volumes will return. The demand for deals is there.
Q.
A.
The market for large, leveraged deals is choppy right now. Deals of size demand more equity and carry more risk. Having said that, when the economy begins to grow at a sustainable, foreseeable rate, leverage will be more attainable, valuations will be more robust and shareholders will want the opportunity to take money off the table, including through larger LBOs. We aren't there yet, but sponsors are creative -- and they will adapt and deploy capital in a variety of ways to achieve returns. We believe more sponsors will look to bridge companies through choppy markets and will of course look to public company carve-outs, including large carve-outs, in which to invest. A large LBO will happen at some point -- and then we will stop talking about when and if.
Q.
A.
The bylaw and the pill decision are the Delaware law now. Litigation is not a forum that lends itself to deal-making -- though it can sometimes provide a backdrop for negotiation. The key issue is and will remain the balance of governance power between shareholders and boards. Looking at the market as a whole, it may be that shareholders who have more of a say on important deals may be less concerned with legislating individual issues like compensation -- where shareholders are not positioned to act. The best defense is not lawyered; it is good shareholder relations and good performance. I will leave the rest to the commentators who are still writing about these decisions.
Q.
A.
We now have a regime that falls into three buckets: (1) staggered boards, (2) annual elections and (3) action by written consent. The ability to achieve a transaction through the shareholder franchise is very different depending on which bucket you are in. Look at what we have gone through this year -- in terms of changing markets. Look at how fast information flows and how quickly markets, global markets, move. The notion that a public company is going to take a transaction through two election cycles over a two-year period in these markets is pretty far-fetched. Very few will attempt that path. Annually elected boards and companies with written consent will see more shareholder offers.
Q.
A.
It's not where you come from that matters. Identifying with people who don't live in New York City -- who run businesses in small towns and large cities -- does matter. We are in a client-service business. Approaching clients with humility, combined with know how that is offered from the client's point of view, makes a difference. Clients appreciate straight talk. They taught straight talk in Kentucky. We have a straight-talking C.E.O., so I think they teach that in more than one place.
Q.
A.
Rob Kindler is one of the funniest, quick-witted people you will meet. He is also a great banker. So he may have an advantage in the cage because he would get you laughing -- then move in on you. Maybe I would take him on the basketball court. We could sell tickets for the March of Dimes, a great cause of his; Rob would be tough no matter what the game was.

        
Cravath's Woolery to Join JPMorgan as Senior Deal Maker
        
JPMorgan Hires Former Barclays M.&A. Banker

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%) Cravath Swaine & Moore; James C. Woolery; Jim Woolery; JPMorgan Chase &; Banking and Financial Institutions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Woolery, James C.; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Deal Professor; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (96%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); KKR & CO LP (71%); AFFILIATED COMPUTER SERVICES INC (57%); AIRGAS INC (57%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Cravath Swaine & Moore; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); KKR (NYSE) (71%); ARG (NYSE) (57%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (96%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS424690 OTHER CHEMICAL & ALLIED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5169 CHEMICALS & ALLIED PRODUCTS, NEC (57%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



505 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Is Now Worried About Bad P.R. - for Policyholders

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The Chartis unit of the bailed-out insurer, which took a public beating during the financial crisis, is now offering insurance against negative publicity. 

 BODY:
Insurance providers are constantly coming up with new products to sell to policyholders. But the American International Group has hit upon one of the more unusual new services we've heard of in some time: reputation insurance.
Chartis, A.I.G.'s property and casualty insurance arm, said Tuesday that it would begin selling something called ReputationGuard. Created by Chartis's executive liability team, it would give policyholders access to "a select panel" of experts at the public relations firms Burson-Marsteller and Porter Novelli to protect against negative publicity. 
A.I.G. knows a little bit about crisis communications, of course. After its initial $65 billion bailout by the government, the insurer became a target of widespread scorn, its very name a shorthand for the excesses that led to the financial crisis. (Here's a take from "Saturday Night Live" in 2009.)
 In fact, Chartis's own name sprang from a rebranding effort aimed at distancing the business -- which was not responsible for the losses that led to its government bailout -- from the then-tainted A.I.G. name. And Burson-Marsteller was part of the army of public relations firms the insurer hired in the wake of receiving its government lifeline.
"In today's world, one person's negative opinion can quickly become adverse publicity on a global scale," Tracie Grella, the president of Chartis's professional liability unit, said in a statement. "Public perception of the response to an event can have a lasting impact on an organization's reputation. ReputationGuard is a unique solution to this exposure."
A.I.G. has since begun significant repayments of its bailout. And the company has even started using its own name again in advertising its "A.I.G. Direct" life insurance platform.

        
Bank of America Shares Fall to Lowest Point in 2 Years
        
A.I.G. Unit at Center of Financial Crisis Is Wound Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (79%); LIFE INSURANCE (79%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); BRANDING (67%) A.I.G.; AIG; American International Group; Burson-Marsteller; Chartis; Porter Novelli; Insurance; Public Relations and Publicity; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); CHARTIS INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (59%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (59%); BAC (LSE) (59%); 8648 (TSE) (59%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



506 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street and Washington React to Volcker Rule

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: A fair amount of change is expected. After all, the 300-page proposal posed hundreds of questions for the public and the financial industry to address. 

 BODY:
The Volcker Rule is out for the world to see, and it seems everyone has an opinion. 
Some support the crackdown on proprietary trading. Others, mostly Wall Street lawyers and lobbyists, frown on the rule. But most of all, supporters and critics alike want to change it. 
And a fair amount of change is expected. After all, the 300-page proposal posed hundreds of questions for the public and the financial industry to address.
DealBook has rounded up feedback from several experts on both sides of the issue. What follows is an excerpt of their statements. 
Senators Carl Levin and Jeff Merkley, Democrats of Michigan and Oregon, respectively, who co-authored the Volcker rule in Congress
Over one year ago, in the aftermath of the man-made financial crisis that has decimated our economy, Congress passed and the president signed into law the first new meaningful restrictions on risky proprietary trading and conflicts of interest by banks in decades. After two studies, and countless hours of work, regulators have today proposed a rule that is designed to implement these important protections for depositors, taxpayers, and the economy. We look forward to reviewing the proposed rule, and along with Chairman Volcker, expect to provide comment to regulators aimed at ensuring that they implement the rule as Congress intended.
Donald Lamson, a lawyer at Shearman & Sterling and a former Treasury Department official who helped write the Volcker Rule
The proposal is remarkable for its substance and the process by which it appeared. As for substance, we are identifying more potential interpretive problems with each passing day. Once again, U.S. regulators are raising issues of extraterritorial application of Dodd-Frank. A foreign bank will have to be especially careful to structure its business to avoid any connection with personnel in its U.S. branch or to clear a trade through a U.S. institution. 
The scope of the recordkeeping and reporting requirements, both for domestic and foreign institutions, is so extensive and potentially costly. Foreign institutions may have to keep these records for their non-U.S. operations, which seems to go beyond the legislative intent. One wonders whether the agencies have the staff to actually review these monthly reports once they start rolling in to see if there's any disguised prop trading occurring. 

Marcus Stanley, policy director at Americans for Financial Reform
The Volcker Rule, with its clear ban on proprietary trading and material conflicts of interest, could be a crucial tool for refocusing banks on the needs of their real economy customers and away from manipulating the system to maximize their short-run profits. The rule has the potential to address the enormous risks created by misuse of the bank trading book, and to simplify major bank operations in ways that would make supervision easier. 
Unfortunately, this initial proposal does not deliver on the promise of the Volcker Rule or the requirements of the statute. There are things to build on here, including valuable conceptual commitments to police conflicts of interest, end the use of trading accounts to stockpile risky assets, and address the dysfunctional incentives in trader compensation. But the vagueness of the proposal and the broad scope of the exceptions granted mean that in its current form it will not produce the changes we need. 
We need a clear and forceful Volcker Rule to steer the banks toward serving the real economy, and away from destabilizing "financial innovations" that maximize their short-term profits and increase risk for all of us. As it's currently written, this proposal doesn't do the job. 

Frank Keating, president and chief executive of the American Bankers Association 
The banking industry fears the oversized nature and complexity of this proposed rule will make it unworkable and will further inhibit U.S. banks' ability to serve customers and compete internationally. 
Only in today's regulatory climate could such a simple idea become so complex, generating a rule whose preamble alone is 215 pages, with 381 footnotes to boot. How can banks comply with a rule that complicated, and how can regulators effectively administer it in a way that doesn't make it harder for banks to serve their customers and further weaken the broader economy? 
We anticipate that this rule will be continually adjusted and reformed as regulators respond to unintended consequences. Unfortunately, the resulting uncertainty will have an enduring and negative impact on the banking industry and the customers we serve.
Jaret Seiberg, policy analyst at MF Global
 We expect the major trade associations and those who represent the mega banks to be highly critical of the Volcker draft that gets released today for public comment. We expect charges that it will curtail market making, especially for fixed-income products. We also expect claims that it could eliminate portfolio-wide hedging, which would make banks less able to offset risk. And we would look for complaints about the cost, complexity and uncertainty that comes with a compliance regime that might require each security purchase to be tied to a specific hedging need or customer demand. 
 As this is such a complicated rulemaking, we believe these Capitol Hill threats have less meaning than normal. It will be possible for regulators to justify either an onerous or a moderate version to lawmakers.
 This is an unusual proposal in that it runs more than 500 pages and contains hundreds of questions. Because the questions suggest both more onerous views and more benign interpretations, it is really impossible to say with clarity exactly what the regulators are proposing to do. 

        
UBS Scandal Is a Reminder About Why Dodd-Frank Came to Be
        
Banking Industry Revamp Moves Step Closer to Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DEREGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%) Carl Levin; Dodd-Frank; Donald Lamson; Frank Keating; Jaret Seiberg; Jeff Merkley; Marcus Stanley; Volcker Rule; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JEFF MERKLEY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



507 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Asks Banks for Details on Recruiting

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: The top financial regulator in Massachusetts is concerned about the staffing services provided to hedge funds by big Wall Street banks. 

 BODY:
The top financial regulator in Massachusetts on Tuesday asked many of Wall Street's biggest banks for more information on their hedge fund recruiting services.
In a letter of inquiry sent to Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, UBS and Morgan Stanley, William F. Galvin, the secretary of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, asked the firms to give a list of the clients they had provided employment referrals to since January 2009. Mr. Galvin said his letter was aimed at putting the firms "on notice that these are issues that need to be explored."
 The request comes the day after an article in The New York Times explained how Wall Street firms had established staffing services in an effort to attract and retain brokerage and trading business.
Press officers for Goldman, Morgan Stanley, UBS, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank declined to comment about the inquiry. 
As hedge funds have become more prominent, they have become a significant driver of banks' earnings. The industry accounts for as much as 35 percent of all trading revenue on Wall Street, according to the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. 
In the wake of the financial crisis, such profit centers have proved all the more important, prompting Wall Street banks to sweeten their services. Big banks, previously informal recruiters, now have entrenched practices to help hedge funds find financial executives, accountants and other professionals.
Mr. Galvin is exploring the scope of the relationships. While he does not yet know what direction the inquiry may take, if any, he already sees some potential avenues of exploration. For instance, he said firms might be offering the service only to select hedge funds, which could violate Massachusetts securities laws. 
He also said he planned to look at whether the Wall Street recruiting broke rules regarding gift-giving. These laws prohibit Wall Street firms from giving gifts valued at more than $100 a year to individuals who are in a position to direct business to them. 
The staffing services could also raise questions about disclosure. It is unclear whether hedge funds detail the nature of the relationships to their investors. The concern is that the money managers could be directing business to banks in exchange for recruiting, at the expense of their investors.
Earlier this year, Mr. Galvin's department fined Goldman Sachs $10 million for hosting so-called trading huddles in its stock research department. At these meetings, analysts developed short-term trading ideas to share with the biggest clients. 
Mr. Galvin's office said in a statement in June that the huddles were "a dishonest and unethical violation of the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act by putting certain clients at an advantage over others." Goldman agreed to stop holding trading huddles.

        
Wall St. Banks Help Hedge Funds Recruit
        
Commercial Real Estate Breathes Life Into a Moribund Market

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); ETHICS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%) Bank of America; Deutsche Bank; Goldman Sachs; Morgan Stanley; UBS; William Galvin; Galvin, William F; Banking and Financial Institutions; Hedge Funds; Bank of America Corporation; Deutsche Bank AG; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; UBS AG; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Deutsche Bank AG; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Morgan Stanley; UBS AG

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (68%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: Galvin, William F

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



508 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Alliances

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
While some members of the Democratic establishment see the anti-Wall Street protests as a way to align disenchanted voters with their party, others see doing so as a politically risky move that could take the party too far to the left, Eric Lichtblau reports.

        
A powerful Congressional committee has managed to produce a rare consensus: Both Republicans and Democrats say the panel charged with reducing the federal deficit is doing too much of its work in secret. But some in Congress support the secrecy, arguing that such politically charged bargains can be struck only behind closed doors, insulated from special interests that could swoop in to try to kill elements of the agreement, Robert Pear writes.

        
A disciplined messaging strategyhas worked well for Mitt Romney at campaign events in New Hampshire, where he studiously stayed on his economic message instead of engaging with his opponents. Less clear is how avoiding rivals and critics will work in early nominating states, where social conservatives and evangelical voters often make up a large part of the Republican base, Ashley Parker and Michael D. Shear report.

        
Nationally, the Republican field appears to have come down to a bout between Mitt Romney and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. But in the state where the first nominating votes will be cast, the lower-tier candidates are attracting some uncommon attention, and one reason is the influence of Christian conservatives, Trip Gabriel reports.
Around the Web

        
The Republican Study Committee, one of the most influential conservative groups in Congress, has been plagued with infighting and disputes that reflect a larger problem for the Republican Party, Politico reports. With public dissent and an unusual number of defections, the organization is at odds over how far right the party should lean.
Happenings in Washington

        
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will preside over a ceremonial swearing-in for David H. Petraeus, the C.I.A. director.

        
First Lady Michelle Obama will help go after the Guinness World Record title for most people doing jumping jacks in a 24-hour period. She will be joined by hundreds of Washington-area children in doing one minute of continuous jumping jacks. Later in the day she will speak at a Democratic National Committee event in Washington.

        
The Early Word: Double Dip
        
The Early Word: The Populist Chord
        
The Early Word: Not Now
        
The Early Word: Waning
        
The Early Word: Listed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); RELIGION (67%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); RICK PERRY (56%); MICHELLE OBAMA (53%); DAVID PETRAEUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011



509 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Dreams of a McCain Presidency

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Would the country have been better off with McCain in the White House? 

 BODY:
The most interesting part of Ezra Klein's lengthy "what went wrong" assessment of the Obama administration's economic policy is the way it raises the possibility that a John McCain presidency might have delivered a more effective response to the Great Recession. With McCain in the White House and a Democratic majority in Congress, Klein implies, we might have had a smaller, better-targeted stimulus package (perhaps more like the one that Alice Rivlin recommended) joined to a more robust intervention in the housing market (like the one McCain's campaign proposed in the autumn of 2008). Jonathan Chait takes this idea and uses it to make a broader argument that a McCain presidency would have forestalled the popular backlash against deficit-financed stimulus:
... [Because] you had an all-Democratic government, led by a charismatic, young, black president ... any measures to alleviate the crisis struck millions of conservatives as a terrifying redistribution of wealth, a frightful and permanent unmooring of the nation from its tradition of liberty. This helped encourage the hyper-partisan response of Republican leaders, who abandoned the belief in Keynesian stimulus that they had previously endorsed in 2001 and 2008. (Yes, Republicans passed a stimulus bill in 2008. Their turnabout against stimulus was rapid and total.)
Perhaps a President McCain might have designed a less sweeping and less effective stimulus than President Obama did. But Republicans would have gone along - after all, they did under Bush, and this time the justification was far stronger. It's also likely that Democrats would have gone along, because they have shown themselves to be happy to support stimulus under Republican presidents. It also seems likely that, as the crisis deepened, President McCain would have fought for more stimulus measures, and these measures would not have been dead on arrival because there would not have been a right-wing backlash against the first one.
From a different ideological vantage point, I've entertained versions of this argument myself, and imagined a world in which McCain's dealmaking instincts and the incentives of divided government delivered effective right-leaning public policy on issues ranging from health care to tax reform. But I think that both Chait's scenario and mine depend on an overestimation of the Democratic Party's public-spiritedness. Just imagine for a moment the scenario in which McCain would have taken office: As the Republican inheritor of an economic crisis that began under a hated Republican incumbent; as the man who eked out a narrow, narrow victory in an election that Democrats considered their greatest electoral opportunity in a generation; and as the beneficiary - or so liberals would have told themselves - of the American public's latent racism, which would have been constantly invoked as the only possible explanation for McCain's victory and Barack Obama's defeat. (And that's without even touching the Sarah Palin factor ...)
Maybe, , Congressional Democrats would have gone along with McCain on some emergency economic legislation. But it's easy to imagine the arguments that liberals would have discovered against, say, a sweeping payroll tax holiday (it's undercutting Social Security!) to say nothing of how they would have reacted if McCain had attempted to push a health care reform that undermined employer based coverage, or something similarly disruptive on taxes.
Overall, in a McCain presidency Democrats would have faced the same political incentives Republicans face now - where it's easier to blame a terrible economy on the president than to find ways to cooperate with him - with two added reasons to fight rather than to deal: First, they could have easily pinned the of the economic crisis on the G.O.P. ("the Bush-McCain Depression," etc.), and second, they would have had a potentially unbeatable Hillary Clinton rather than a suspect Mitt Romney waiting in the wings for 2012.
To win significant cooperation under those circumstances, I suspect that McCain would have had to essentially surrender to Democratic priorities, which in turn would have turned him into a kind of John Tyler figure - a president despised by his own party and a first-term lame duck. And whether you start from liberal or conservative premises, it's hard to see that scenario playing out happily for the United States or the world.

        
The Presider and the Fighter
        
The Timing of Social Security
        
A Broken Senate, or an Unpopular Agenda?
        
The Lessons of the '80s
        
The Problem of Corporatism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); RACE & RACISM (68%); TAX REFORM (50%) Barack Obama; Domestic Policy; John McCain; the economy

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



510 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Tonight's Debate Deserves the Hype

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday's debate about economic issues takes on extra importance, particularly for Rick Perry. 

 BODY:
Usually in this space, we get a lot of mileage out of diminishing the importance of any one day's events during a political campaign.
The math behind this is pretty simple. Presidential elections are incredibly long affairs: they last for two years, give or take, counting the primaries and the "invisible primary" (candidates jockeying for position among party elites) that precedes them. There is some sort of lead political story just about every day, but most of them can't possibly make all that much difference, in the same way that any one game does not make all that much difference during a 162-game baseball season.
But this time is different. Tonight's Republican debate is exceptionally important.
Actually, let me qualify that slightly. The debate itself is somewhat important -- but it's the (among the media and among party elites) that will really matter. Rick Perry's polling numbers actually did not decline much in the aftermath of the Sept. 22 debate. If everyone had turned off their televisions and iPads following the debate, it might not have made all that much difference.
But after a week or two of negative reviews of his performance from commentators across the political spectrum -- this is the sort of thing that begets the term "echo chamber" -- the debate's effect on Mr. Perry was very much amplified, and he lost 10 or 15 points in the polls.
The central reason for the importance of tonight's debate is of course Mr. Perry's predicament. None of the fundamentals that propelled Mr. Perry into the polling lead following his entry into the race have really changed all that much. As the thrice-elected governor of the nation's second-largest state, he has very strong and very traditional qualifications. He's raised plenty of money. His policy positions, with one or two clear exceptions, are a reasonably good fit for that of the Republican electorate. He trails Mitt Romney in endorsements -- a gap made wider by Gov. Christopher J. Christie's decision to endorse Mr. Romney today -- but not by much. He's a capable and experienced retail politician. His regional strengths ought to match up in an advantageous way with the Republican calendar.
Rick Perry's fundamentals are sound.
But he's also on the verge of being vetoed by the Republican establishment, which was never particularly enamored with his candidacy and has justifiable concerns about his electability. Establishment support is certainly not a quality for a candidate to win his nomination -- otherwise the campaigns of Tim Pawlenty, Fred Thompson and Phil Gramm would have gone further -- but it may be fairly close to being a one. In the early years of the reformed primary process, which dates back to 1972, you had a couple of candidates -- George McGovern and Jimmy Carter -- who won without elite support. But that hasn't happened recently as parties and candidates have come to a better understanding of the system.
So we should look toward how Republican elites react to Mr. Perry's performance. A good early indicator of this might be how his performance is reviewed on Fox News. If you're a Democrat who is not in the habit of watching Fox News, you might want to do so tonight, at least in the 30 minutes or so following the debate.
I also suspect that there won't be a lot of middle ground in the reviews of his performance, given that the "Rick Perry's campaign is imploding!" storyline and the "Rick Perry is the comeback kid!" storyline both make for pretty good headlines.
Imagine that you're grading Mr. Perry's performance tonight, as objectively as you can, on a scale from 0 to 10. A debate that might ordinarily merit a 6 might well seem more like a 9 once it's been through the wash of the echo chamber. Under that scenario, we might well be viewing Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry as co-frontrunners in another week's time.
But a performance that merited a 4 might instead be reviewed as a 1 or a 2, in which case we might be treated to yet another round of speculation about whether a last-ditch savior might enter the race (never mind that filing deadlines are imminent; this hasn't been a barrier to such speculation before) -- or even speculation about whether Mr. Perry might drop out of the race entirely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); VETO (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); BASEBALL (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Christie, Christopher J; Gramm, Phil; McGovern, George S; Pawlenty, Tim; Perry, Rick; Thompson, Fred Dalton; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Fox News Channel

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Fox News Channel

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); FRED THOMPSON (77%); PHIL GRAMM (77%); TIM PAWLENTY (73%) Christie, Christopher J; Gramm, Phil; McGovern, George S; Pawlenty, Tim; Perry, Rick; Thompson, Fred Dalton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



511 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bill Keller)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Scramble, Continued

BYLINE: BILL KELLER


HIGHLIGHT: Responding to readers' comments on my column and the question of whether the Tea Party will transform itself from the Party of Against into a force that can make things happen. 

 BODY:
The comment stream in response to my Monday column - "Is the Tea Party Over?" - was divided for the most part into one camp of readers proclaiming the inevitable triumph of the Tea Party, and another, larger camp praying for its demise. There's no point quarreling with faith (in the first case) or hope (in the second). To my mind the question is whether the Tea Party will transform itself from a backlash - the Party of Against - into a force that can make things happen. The movement's best hope of making that leap any time soon, which you can view with approval or alarm, is Rick Perry. 
A few commenters and e-mailers complained that I gave short shrift to Herman Cain, who has been Tea Party flavor of the month since he won the all-important Florida straw poll. Cain has certainly shaken up the debates, and he has a knack for speaking his mind that is both refreshing and undisciplined. (Whatever you think of the Occupy Wall Street project, it is not "anti-American," as Cain declared on "Face the Nation." This is, after all, a country born in protest.) But Cain has no money and no organization, and the same polls that show him popular also show that the overwhelming majority of Republicans think he can't win. Moreover, the centerpiece of his campaign - his 9-9-9 tax plan - has been described as hocus-pocus by economists across the spectrum. Here are two analyses of it, from USA Today and Politifact, neither of them a wing of the Democratic Party.
A reader wondered why the press is not giving more attention to Jon Huntsman, the one Republican candidate who has largely resisted the temptation to pander to the Tea Party base. Earlier in the campaign, Huntsman got so much attention that conservatives accused the mainstream media of cheerleading. I think the early coverage was justified because he was and is the outlier in the campaign, a kind of surrogate for old-school, moderate Republicanism, not to mention the fact that he was President Obama's ambassador to China, which is both a credential and a liability. Campaign coverage, especially months before any actual vote, should not be driven entirely by the polls. But you reach a point where a candidate is clearly not breaking out of the pack, and the spotlight moves elsewhere. It's conceivable - just - that Huntsman gets a lifeline in New Hampshire, but for now he's stuck in the low single figures.
Several commenters pleaded for more scrutiny of Rick Perry's job-creating record in Texas - which does, in fact, fall short of the campaign's claims, even allowing for his state's advantages of abundant petroleum, a growing force of low-wage immigrant labor, and a tax and regulatory environment best summed up as hands-off. Here are a few of the more skeptical reviews of the record: one from The Times, one from Felix Salmon of Reuters, and a new look (published Tuesday)from the Wall Street Journal (subscription required).
Finally, thanks to Jake Silverstein, the editor of Texas Monthly, who said my description of the Republican presidential race as an "unedifying scramble" reminded him of a breakfast taco he once ate.

        
Life Without Government
        
Disrupters and Adapters, Continued: Will the Internet Save Newspapers?
        
Silicon Valley II?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); JOB CREATION (50%) Keller Op-Ed column; rick perry; tea party

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (79%); RICK PERRY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



512 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Gate Worldwide Agency Absorbs Carrafiello-Diehl

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Carrafiello-Diehl &#038; Associates, a well-known advertising agency in the Northeast, is being absorbed by an agency named the Gate Worldwide. 

 BODY:
A well-known advertising agency in the Northeast, Carrafiello-Diehl & Associates, is closing and its remaining accounts and employees are being absorbed by an agency named the Gate Worldwide.
Carrafiello-Diehl was opened in 1973 and was based in Irvington, N.Y. As recently as 2009 it had 25 employees; seven people are joining the Gate Worldwide in New York.
The Gate Worldwide will take over two accounts of Carrafiello-Diehl. One is the Sunny Delight Beverage Company and the other is the Lawrence Hospital Group.

The disappearance of Carrafiello-Diehl comes seven months after it lost a large client, Prestige Brands, to the Via Group in Portland, Me. Prestige sells products like Comet cleanser, Chloraseptic throat lozenges, Compound W wart treatment and Efferdent denture cleaner.
Gerald C. Carrafiello, who had been president of Carrafiello-Diehl, is joining the Gate Worldwide to lead that agency's healthy lifestyle practice.
Since 2007, when Madison Avenue and the rest of the country began traveling on a rocky economic road, no giant agency or major agency holding company has been closed or forced into bankruptcy.
Still, there have been casualties among smaller agencies like Carrafiello-Diehl. Another example is Toy, a well-regarded boutique agency in New York, which was closed last year.
The Gate Worldwide's New York office now has 50 employees. Other clients include State Street Global Advisors, Bonobos and Cure automobile insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); HOSPITALS (55%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%) Carrafiello-Diehl & Associates; Gate Worldwid; Advertising and Marketing; advertising; Marketing

COMPANY: CARRAFIELLO-DIEHL & ASSOCIATES INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MAINE, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



513 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Tappan Zee Bridge Project Gets Fast-Tracked

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY


HIGHLIGHT: The Tappan Zee Bridge, long overdue for an overhaul, is one of 14 projects chosen for expedited federal review and approval, possibly allowing work on a replacement bridge to begin as early as next year. 

 BODY:
Updated: A fuller version of this article can be found here. 
The Tappan Zee Bridge, which has been long overdue for a costly overhaul, was one of 14 projects chosen on Tuesday by the Obama administration for expedited federal review and approval - possibly allowing work on a replacement bridge to begin as early as next year.
For two decades, local politicians have been trying to get the aging bridge repaired or replaced, and numerous options have been floated for a project that would cost billions of dollars. 
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo called the fast-tracking "a shot in the arm for the project and a major step forward to restoring this key piece of infrastructure and putting tens of thousands of New Yorkers back to work."
President Obama had created a national competition to win expedited federal approvals for high-priority, job-creating projects. New York submitted the Tappan Zee Bridge project, following its bid with personal lobbying efforts by Governor Cuomo, who called William M. Daley, the White House chief of staff, and Howard Glaser, New York State's direction of operations, who went to Washington to make the case. 

        
Bloomberg Again Defends Handling of Deputy's Arrest
        
Cuomo Calls for Volunteers to Clean Up After Irene
        
Tighter Qualifications for School Bus Drivers
        
Cuomo Opts to Vacation Close to Home
        
Old Lesson for New, Tough-Talking Governors: 'It's the Economy ...'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (53%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (50%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (50%) Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo; Tappan Zee Bridge; Bridges and Tunnels; Infrastructure (Public Works); New York State; Albany; Highlights; Transportation

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



514 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Upper East Side Protest March Makes House Calls

BYLINE: CARA BUCKLEY


HIGHLIGHT: Building on the message of the Occupied Wall Street movement, about 400 people brought their demonstration to some of the city's wealthiest residents. 

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch was not answering his front door. Neither was JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon. And when a crowd of eager guests showed up at the Park Avenue doorstep of the billionaire industrialist David H. Koch, instead of being greeted with open arms they were met by three stern men in suits, sunglasses and polished shoes.
So it went with the Millionaires' March that wended its way through the Upper East Side on Tuesday afternoon. About 400 marchers - trade unionists, retirees, students, an activist brass marching band and a topless woman - chanted and drummed their way through the city's wealthiest corridors to decry the concentration of wealth in the hands of the few, and also to pay a visit to the homes of some of those few. 
Under the watchful gaze of dozens of police officers, and drawing admiration, puzzlement, bemusement and derision from onlookers ("I love capitalism!" screamed one), the marchers made stops outside the homes of Mr. Murdoch, Mr. Dimon, Mr. Koch as well as the real estate developer Howard Milstein and hedge fund manager and billionaire John Paulson. All of the men have homes on Fifth Avenue or Park Avenue or somewhere in between. 
The marchers were protesting the end of the millionaires' tax, the income surcharge on some high-earning New Yorkers that is set to expire this year.
"They've been able to manipulate the state legislators into getting better deals," said Dee Brodzik, 65, a retired broker and volunteer with MoveOn.org, the liberal advocacy group. "But they should be taxed." 
Organized by a coalition of local and national nonprofit and community advocacy groups, the march was affiliated with the Occupy Wall Street protest and the 99 Percent movement, which stands against income inequality and the concentration of wealth. The coalition had helped organized a larger march in May, but was able to garner more news media attention for Tuesday's protest because of the growing prominence of the Occupy Wall Street movement, now in its fourth week. 
A spokesman for Mr. Murdoch did not return an e-mail query and a spokesman for Mr. Dimon had no comment. But a representative for Mr. Koch did reply.
"David Koch was at work along with the 50,000 other U.S. employees of Koch companies," the representative said. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has said the protesters can stay in Zuccotti Park, site of the Occupy Wall Street encampment, questioned what the marchers hoped to achieve. Asked by a reporter what he thought of the protesters' picking out the home of Mr. Dimon, Mr. Bloomberg said that Mr. Dimon was "one of the great bankers."
"He's brought more business to this city than maybe any other banker in modern day," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
But Michael Kink, a protest organizer and the executive director of the Strong Economy for All Coalition, which is made of labor and community groups, said the intent of the march was to underscore the wealth of the city's richest residents and how much they stood to gain should the tax cut expire. 
"People are angry - we're trying to stop the tax break," Mr. Kink said. "This is ultimately designed to turn up the heat." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); RIOTS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) Dimon, James; Koch, David H; Murdoch, Rupert; Paulson, John A; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Income Inequality; Occupy Wall Street; Police Department (NYC); Fifth Avenue (NYC); Park Avenue (NYC); Housing & Economy

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street; Police Department (NYC)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); JAMES DIMON (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) Dimon, James; Koch, David H; Murdoch, Rupert; Paulson, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Fifth Avenue (NYC); Park Avenue (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



515 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Obama Pushes Jobs Plan as Senate Prepares to Vote

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama continued plugging his jobs plan, even as White House officials acknowledged that the bill's prospects in the Senate were tenuous. 

 BODY:
PITTSBURGH - President Obama continued the drumbeat for his jobs plan on Tuesday, even as White House officials acknowledged that the bill's prospects in the Senate were tenuous and Mr. Obama himself vowed not to wait for Congress to advance ideas to get American back to work.
In what sounded almost like an outright acknowledgement that Congress would reject his jobs proposal, Mr. Obama said he was making plans for what to do afterward. "If they don't pass the whole package, we're going to break it up into different parts," he said, echoing White House officials who have said that they would seek to push individual components of the bill that had the best chance for passage.
Mr. Obama nonetheless called the vote "a moment of truth for the United States Senate."
"In front of them," Mr. Obama told an audience at an International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers training center, "is a bill, a jobs bill, that economists say will grow this economy and put Americans back to work." Several times during his speech, Mr. Obama asked, "Why would any senator say no to that?"
Meeting with his Council for Jobs and Competitiveness for the unveiling of yet another set of ideas to increase economic growth, Mr. Obama also said that he had instructed White House officials to "scour" a jobs council report in order to identify executive actions that the administration could take.
The report includes recommendations to attract $1 trillion in direct foreign investment within five years, as well as trying to upgrade the country's roads, train tracks and airports, and looking at ways to improve energy technology and infrastructure. 
Mr. Obama highlighted events over the last 10 months - the tsunami in Japan, the democracy protests in the Middle East and North Africa, the European debt crisis, the "self-inflicted" wound of this summer's debt ceiling negotiations with Congress - as reasons why urgency, he said, was necessary.
The White House is keenly aware of how much Mr. Obama's own job is dependent on the country's high unemployment rate, now hovering at 9.1 percent. In many ways, the trip to Pennsylvania, a crucial state in the president's re-election plans, is meant to strengthen both Mr. Obama's jobs initiative and his own re-election hopes. 
Democratic officials acknowledge that it is hard to see any way for Mr. Obama to win re-election if he doesn't carry Pennsylvania. 
From the moment Mr. Obama stepped off Air Force One here, he seemed to be trying to occupy two specific, but different, spaces. On the one hand, almost every trip he now takes - and this one perhaps more than most - incorporates a campaign component. Shaking hands with a small group of supporters huddled behind a rope line at the airport, Mr. Obama said, "I'm going to try," when one man told him, "We're going to help you win Pennsylvania." 
But at the same time, White House officials appeared leery of looking like they were not putting the country's dire economic situation first. The White House deputy press secretary, Josh Earnest, made a point of noting that the election was 13 months out and that the president was focused on the economy. 
In Pittsburgh, Mr. Obama met with electrical workers before attending the meeting of his jobs council, which includes corporate chieftains like the chairman and chief executive of General Electric, Jeffrey Immelt, and labor leaders like the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,Richard Trumka.
The White House also said it was announcing steps to speed up environmental and other regulatory approvals for public works projects across the county.
After the Pennsylvania visit, Mr. Obama was headed to Orlando, Fla., where he was scheduled to attend two fund-raisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (62%); EURO CRISIS (62%) Elections; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



516 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Christie Endorses Romney Ahead of Debate

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY and MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey endorsed Mitt Romney in New Hampshire, just hours before the Republican Party's candidates gather for another debate. 

 BODY:
3:34 p.m. | Updated LEBANON, N.H. - Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey endorsed Mitt Romney's bid for the Republican presidential nomination on Tuesday afternoon by praising his business and government experience, declaring, "Mitt Romney is the man we need to lead America."
The endorsement by Mr. Christie, which came hours before the Republican candidates gather here for a debate, marked the latest effort by Mr. Romney to galvanize the Republican establishment behind his candidacy. Mr. Christie got an early start defending Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, saying that any effort to compare the Massachusetts health care plan enacted under Mr. Romney to the national plan signed by President Obama -- as the Perry campaign did in a recent video -- was "completely intellectually dishonest."
In a joint appearance here, Mr. Romney called Mr. Christie "a real hero in Republican circles."
As the two men took questions from reporters, Mr. Christie said recent comments about Mr. Romney's Mormon faith made by a pastor who supports Gov. Rick Perry of Texas were unacceptable and out of bounds for a presidential race.
Mr. Romney took the issue one step further and called on Mr. Perry to "repudiate the sentiments and remarks" of the pastor. He added, "I don't believe that that kind of divisiveness based on religion has a place in this country."
The two men appeared together in a hotel ballroom here, with their wives sitting in the front row. Mr. Romney reached out to Mr. Christie after his decision last week to stay out of the Republican presidential race. The four of them met on Saturday for more than two hours to discuss the potential endorsement over lunch at the Christies' private residence in New Jersey.
Mr. Christie intends to plan an active role in the Romney campaign, aides said, and will travel on his behalf, help raise money and serve as a top adviser. He said Mr. Romney was the most prepared candidate in the field, saying, "He didn't just wander into it."
"This is somebody who has thought and listened and planned for a good long period of time about what he would do if he was given the honor of being the president of the United States," Mr. Christie said.
The value of all political endorsements can be fleeting, particularly in presidential races, where a voter's decision can be deeply personal. Still, Mr. Christie was among the most sought-after figures inside the Republican Party.
"This will not be an endorsement and then move on," said Russ Schriefer, a top strategist for Mr. Romney, who also helped Mr. Christie win election in 2009. "He will play a very active role."
Having never run for office nationwide, Mr. Christie does not have a following to hand over to Mr. Romney in crucial early voting states. But his reputation as blunt truth teller in New Jersey could help Mr. Romney with people who doubt his core beliefs.
And Mr. Christie's endorsement could add to the rush of wealthy donors to Mr. Romney's side, many of whom had waited nervously on the sidelines for the past few months. Many of Mr. Christie's biggest backers for a possible run this year were executives who could raise big dollars for Mr. Romney.
Among those Mr. Romney brought on board were James B. Lee Jr., the vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who in 2008 raised more than $500,000 for Senator John McCain; Paul Singer, the hedge fund founder and conservative philanthropist; and John A. Catsimatidis, the supermarket magnate and New York businessman.
Privately, Romney aides had said they truly weren't sure if Mr. Christie was going to seek the Republican nomination - they speculated that even Mr. Christie himself wasn't sure - and they worried about how Mr. Christie's entrance would affect Mr. Romney's ability to shore up support with Republican activists and donors.
Mr. Christie's explicit backing could aid Mr. Romney's efforts to lock down establishment Republican donors and build a sense of inevitability around his campaign, as donors recalibrate their plans with the expectation that no other significant candidates are likely to enter the race. It could also help Mr. Romney's allies recruit new megadonors, like Mr. Singer, to Restore Our Future, the super PAC founded by a group of former Romney aides, which will be going head to head against a well-financed super PAC supporting Mr. Romney's chief rival, Mr. Perry.
"This is a very significant event for Christie to endorse Romney," said Jim Nicholson, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, who announced last week that he would back Mr. Romney "because of his conservative credentials and the following that he has had, the people who were still on the sidelines, who were waiting to see what Chris Christie would do."
Mr. Nicholson added: "They are a pragmatic bunch. They want to put their money on the nose of the person they think has the best chance of winning. With Christie now saddled up with Romney, that's going to cause a lot of those people to commit to Romney."
Still, Mr. Christie's imprimatur may resonate most among the relatively small group of deep-pocketed Northeast Republicans, many of them Wall Street figures, who were poised to seed the New Jersey governor's financial efforts had he entered the race. Some of those names have already turned to Mr. Romney, who courted them in recent months and urged them to give him a look if Mr. Christie bowed out. Other Republican donors are likely to remain uncommitted for the time being.
In some ways, Mr. Christie and Mr. Romney are an odd match.
Mr. Christie's style is bombastic and casual, and at times bullying. He has gotten national attention by taking on the state's teachers' unions and by challenging his party's orthodoxy on climate change, gun control and immigration.
Mr. Romney, by contrast, has spent most of his career as a sharply dressed and stylistically buttoned-down politician. His biggest political liability has been the perception that he does not have rock-solid beliefs on core issues.
But in other ways, the endorsement makes sense. As governors, both men have seen the practical challenges of trying to match ideology with governance.
And Mr. Christie's other choices seemed like a bad fit. Mr. Perry is a Southern conservative with little in common with his New Jersey counterpart. Representative Michele Bachmann is a firebrand whose style of politics -- as well as her position on the issues -- is not in line with Mr. Christie's.
Ray Sullivan, communications director for Mr. Perry, responded to news of the endorsement on Fox News. "Well that's the way it works in this business sometimes; the Northeast Republicans are sticking together in this case," he said. "We've got a debate tonight that's supposed to talk about the economy. I've got a governor, Governor Perry, who's got the strongest jobs record in the country, six balanced budgets, cutting billions in spending. That's really what the voters want to hear about, how to get this economy turned around."
Mr. Christie made it clear in recent months that he wanted to remain a force in helping to unseat Mr. Obama. Endorsing Mr. Romney will give him a national platform without having to run himself.

        
Huntsman Calls for New Foreign Policy
        
Iowa Republicans Eye Jan. 3 for Caucuses
        
Republican Candidates Start to Engage on Foreign Policy
        
As Christie Passes, Romney Campaigns On
        
Candidates' Spouses Make Fund-Raising Push

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (67%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (64%) 2012 presidential campaign; Republicans; Christie, Christopher J; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; New Hampshire; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK PERRY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Christie, Christopher J; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



517 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Debate Live Blog: Republicans Take on the Economy

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican presidential candidates gather in Hanover, N.H. to discuss the economy and other issues. 

 BODY:
HANOVER, N.H. -- Get ready for a wild ride at tonight's Republican debate.
In the past few days, the presidential campaign has become far more intense, with candidates taking aim at Mitt Romney's character and questions resurfacing about his Mormon faith.
The sparring has grown even more testy in just the hours before the debate, when Mr. Romney called on Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, to repudiate a supporter who called Mormonism "a cult."
Not only did Mr. Perry refuse, but in a news release to reporters Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Perry's spokesman called on Mr. Romney to "repudiate" his health care plan.
"We call on Mr. Romney to repudiate government-mandated health care as crafted in Romneycare and admit his policies and advisors ushered in Obamacare's costly and destructive health care mandates," Mark Miner, the spokesman said.
The debate is designed as a conversation about economic issues. But that may not stop other issues from bubbling to the surface, especially with passions as high as they are.
We'll be providing real time analysis and fact checking on our live dashboard, and also taking suggestions from readers for candidate statements that deserve a closer look. You can submit via Twitter with the hashtag #asknyt or submit on the dashboard, once we're live. We'll be starting around 7:30 p.m. ET.
6:01 p.m. |Update

        
The Gloves Come Off at Iowa Debate
        
Debate Watch: Student View, the Last Debate
        
Debate Watch: Student View
        
Debate Watch: Meet the Panelists
        
Live-Blogging the Democratic Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (77%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%) debates; live blogging; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK PERRY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



518 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 4720 words

HEADLINE: Debate Live Blog: Republicans Take On the Economy

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican presidential candidates gather in Hanover, N.H., to discuss the economy and other issues. 

 BODY:
HANOVER, N.H. -- Get ready for a wild ride at tonight's Republican debate.
In the past few days, the presidential campaign has become far more intense, with candidates taking aim at Mitt Romney's character and questions resurfacing about his Mormon faith.
The sparring has grown even more testy in just the hours before the debate, when Mr. Romney called on Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, to repudiate a supporter who called Mormonism "a cult."
Not only did Mr. Perry refuse, but in a news release to reporters Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Perry's spokesman called on Mr. Romney to "repudiate" his health care plan.
"We call on Mr. Romney to repudiate government-mandated health care as crafted in Romneycare and admit his policies and advisers ushered in Obamacare's costly and destructive health care mandates," said Mark Miner, the spokesman.
The debate is intended to be a conversation about economic issues. But that may not stop other issues from bubbling to the surface, especially with passions as high as they are.
We'll be providing real-time analysis and fact-checking on our live dashboard, and also taking suggestions from readers for candidate statements that deserve a closer look. You can submit them via Twitter with the hashtag #asknyt or on the dashboard, once we're live.
Go to the Debate Dashboard
10:38 P.M. | Debate Wrap
The debate is over, and this live blog is drawing to a close. Thanks for following the debate tonight with us. We'll be back for the next debate - Tuesday, Oct. 18 from Las Vegas.
Read our debate story and come back to The Caucus tomorrow for further analysis. Follow us on Twitter for updates from the 2012 presidential campaign.
- 
10:10 P.M. | Fact Check: Santorum Criticizes TARP
Rick Santorum boasted that unlike four of his Republican rivals, he opposed the 2008 bank bailout, called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, when he was in Congress. He called it "the single biggest government intrusion into the private sector," said it was unconstitutional and suggested without naming President Obama that Mr. Obama had driven "a truck through it" to "explode the size of the federal government and constrict our freedom." 
Congress passed the TARP legislation, which provided up to $700 billion to bail out financial institutions, and President George W. Bush signed it into law in early October 2008. The overwhelming consensus of financial analysts and economists is that TARP ultimately prevented the collapse of the global financial system. The Treasury Department ended up spending less than $500 billion of the $700 billion for assistance to banks, and most of that credit was extended before Mr. Obama took office. The Treasury during the Obama administration has recouped all of the bank loans and taxpayers have earned money, thanks to the interest the banks had to pay and the proceeds the Treasury recovered upon selling the warrants that banks had to post as collateral. 
- 
10:04 P.M. | What Was Not Said
The Republican debate that just ended was notable as much for what wasn't said as what was.
There were no questions about Mr. Romney's religion, despite the fact that a conservative pastor managed to inject the issue into the campaign last week by calling Mormonism "a cult."
There was no discussion of the racial epithet that was painted on a rock at the entrance to a hunting camp that Mr. Perry and his family had used. That issue has dogged the Texas governor since The Washington Post published an article about the matter two weeks ago.
Immigration - a frequent subject of the last few debates - did not get another airing.
And there was no debate over the role of social issues - abortion, gun control, gay marriage - despite the fact that several of the candidates appear eager to use those issues as a way to criticize Mr. Romney.
The debate hosts - The Post and Bloomberg News - had decided long ago to focus the exchange on economic issues. That was before many of the noneconomic issues flared up in the campaign.
Despite the pressure to address the issues of the moment, the questioners stuck to their scripts. And the candidates did, too, when they got the opportunity to question each other.
But the debate could be a bit deceiving. As important as the economic issues are, the candidates are likely to return to the other subjects as soon as they get back to the campaign trail.
- 
10:08 P.M. | What Numbers Matter on Jobs?
Each governor boasts job numbers. What's the real number voters should be looking at - unemployment per state or jobs created?
@jgiganti / Astoria, New York via Twitter
The answer is that both numbers are important. The jobs number is based on surveys of payrolls while the unemployment number is derived from surveys of families.
Mr. Perry has based his campaign to a large degree on the increase in the number of jobs in his state over the past two years. But what he does not mention is that unemployment has spiked in Texas since last spring, even as the rate has stayed flat across the country. The country still has a higher unemployment rate than Texas, but the gap has narrowed by a good deal.
How can it be that the unemployment rate has spiked even as the number of jobs has been rising? Economists are puzzled, but one theory is that self-employed workers - who are not covered by the payroll survey - are getting less work. Another possibility is that more Texans are having to work more than one job.
We addressed this issue and the contradictory numbers in this article.
It's also important to note that many economists say Texas has had more relative job creation than other states lately because of factors that have little or nothing to do with government policies in Austin. Instead, the state's relatively strong oil and gas economy has played a significant role, as has a housing market that, by comparison with other parts of the country, has seen only mild problems.
- 
10 P.M. | Fact Check: Texas State Debt
Mr. Perry, positioning himself as a candidate with the government experience to take on the federal budget deficit, described himself as a scourge of debt in his home state. Texas, Mr. Perry said Texas had the sixth-lowest debt per capita when he took office a decade ago, and now had the second-lowest debt per capita.
In this article about state debt, Forbes magazine ranked Texas at 49th in the country in 2009, the most recent year for which data is available. And federal census figures appear to back Mr. Perry's assertion up.
On the other hand, saying that Texas has less debt per resident compared with other states isn't the same as saying that state debt has decreased. In July, Mitchell Schnurman, a columnist for The Star-Telegram of Fort Worth, using data from the Texas Bond Review Board, wrote that Texas's total debt had increased in the last decade, to $37.8 billion from $13.4 billion.
Not only that, but Texas debt has increased during that period at a faster rate than federal debt.
That is in part because Texas, which has enjoyed an economic boom and attendant growth in population, has been expanding. And Texas has used debt in part to finance new highways, prisons and roads, much as other states do. Most of the added debt load under Mr. Perry's tenure has paid for road projects - projects the state's Department of Transportation could not pay for with borrowed money until 2001, when voters approved an amendment to the state constitution.
- 
9:45 P.M. | Favorite Targets
Two guys not on the stage? Christopher Dodd, the former senator from Connecticut, and Barney Frank, the congressman from Massachusetts. 
 But boy, are they getting plenty of time anyway. 
 All of the Republican candidates trashed the bank regulation named after the two men. 
 "Disaster," said Representative Ron Paul. 
 "Job destroyer," Mrs. Bachmann said. 
 "A killer for small banks," said Mr. Romney, adding that Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank were "the wrong guys at the wrong time" to address the problems with the banks.
- 
9:37 P.M. | Perry and Energy
What is it with Rick Perry and energy? 
His answer to the first question of the debate - how to fix the economy - was to talk about energy independence. 
He talked about energy independence again during the debate topic of trade policy with China. 
And then, when asked about health care by the moderator Charlie Rose, Mr. Perry said it was "one of the biggest issues" facing Americans, and then talked about jobs and energy independence. 
He did eventually get to a discussion of the need for Medicaid waivers. But his debate prep clearly included a lot of talk about energy.
- 
9:36 P.M. | Fact Check: Bachmann on 'Obamacare' and Jobs
Asked by Mr. Romney what she would do to spur job creation, Mrs. Bachmann said she would repeal the national health care law. "The No. 1 reason employers say they aren't hiring today is 'Obamacare,' " she said.
That is a big stretch. Data from the National Federation of Independent Business, which surveys small-business owners monthly, shows that employers' concerns about government regulations are about the same level they were under Ronald Reagan, according to an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute. By far the most common reason small businesses report failing to hire is poor sales, not requirements under the new health care law.
- 
9:34 P.M. | Fact Check: Subprime Mortgage Lending 
 Bachmann: "The federal government pushed" the big banks to lower "platinum level" standards and, essentially, is responsible for the sub-prime lending debacle - not the banks. True?
CURIOUS, Dallas, TX
 Earlier in the debate, Michele Bachmann suggested that the federal government caused the boom in subprime mortgage lending by pushing banks to lower "platinum level" lending standards.
There are two problems with that assertion. The most important problem is that the vast majority of subprime loans were not made by banks or other lenders regulated by the federal government. They were made by mortgage companies that were not subject to regulation of any kind. The problem, if anything, was the complete lack of government supervision.
The assertion also mischaracterizes the historical relationship between the government and banks. Regulators can sometimes prevent banks from acting, but there is almost no evidence that the government can push banks to make loans they don't want to make. This point has been underscored over the last two years, as the Obama administration has begged and pleaded with banks to start making loans, and banks have largely declined to do so.
Banks did make subprime loans in large numbers, and the reason they did so, according to their own executives, was that they saw a chance to make lots of money.
- 
9:28 P.M. | Rivals Can't Rattle Romney
As expected, Mr. Romney has become the focus of the questions from his rivals. But so far, they have had little luck knocking him off his stride.
The sharpest attack came from Mr. Perry, who cited one of Mr. Romney's advisers saying that the health care plan Mr. Romney introduced in Massachusetts when he was governor is like "Obamacare." He asked, "How would you respond to his criticism of your signature legislation?"
Mr. Romney was ready, explaining the differences between his health care plan and the president's. And then he criticized Mr. Perry, saying there are one million uninsured children in Texas.
"Our plan isn't perfect," Mr. Romney said. "The truth is, our plan is different."
Mr. Cain asked Mr. Romney if he could name all 59 points in his economic plan, suggesting that it is too complicated and opaque.
Mr. Romney described the seven "pillars" of his plan, and responded by saying that fixing America's economy would require a president who understands the complexities needed to implement policies.
Mr. Gingrich also directed his question to Mr. Romney, asking why his plan includes a capital gains tax cut for middle-income people but not the rich.
Because "middle-income Americans are the people who have been most hurt by the Obama economy," Mr. Romney shot back.
He also responded to Mr. Huntsman, who made an odd and awkward joke about how he wasn't going to ask about religion, and then noted that Massachusetts was ranked 47th among the states on job creation.
Mr. Romney said that statistic was not an "accurate rendition of what I've done in my life," and cited Staples and Sports Authority as two businesses that he helped start.
- 
9:25 P.M. | Fact Check: Gingrich on Health Care 
Earlier in the debate, Mr. Gingrich condemned a proposal of a government task force to end routine tests for prostate cancer in men, saying it would cause deaths. But the panel that made the recommendation concluded that the test itself had caused deaths and injuries unnecessarily.
Mr. Gingrich was referring to a draft recommendation of the United States Preventive Services Task Force, which concluded after five clinical trials that healthy men should no longer receive a P.S.A. blood test to screen for prostate cancer because the test does not save lives over all and often leads to treatments causing pain, impotence and incontinence for many.
The panel's decision has provoked controversy, much like its recommendation two years ago that women in their 40s did not need routine mammograms. But the panel was even more forceful in its conclusion about the prostate test, which is a lucrative business. "Unfortunately, the evidence now shows that this test does not save men's lives," said Dr. Virginia Moyer, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine and chairwoman of the task force. "This test cannot tell the difference between cancers that will and will not affect a man during his natural lifetime. We need to find one that does."
As The New York Times reported last week, from 1986 through 2005, one million men received surgery, radiation therapy or both who would not have been treated without a P.S.A. test, according to the task force. Among them, at least 5,000 died soon after surgery and 10,000 to 70,000 suffered serious complications. Half had persistent blood in their semen, and 200,000 to 300,000 suffered impotence, incontinence or both. As a result of these complications, the man who developed the test, Dr. Richard J. Ablin, has called its widespread use a "public health disaster ."
Mr. Gingrich incorrectly said the panel has no medical specialists. Recommendations of the task force can determine whether Medicare and private health plans envisioned under the national health care law pay fully for a test. But legislation already requires Medicare to pay for P.S.A. testing no matter what the task force recommends.
As for Mr. Gingrich's claim that Sarah Palin was correct a couple of years ago to suggest that such government-sponsored groups are "death panels," the editors of PolitiFact, the award-winning fact-checking site of The St. Petersburg Times, chose the death panel claim as "Lie of the Year" in 2009.
- 
9:19 P.M. | Fact Check: 'Cutting Back' Government
Mr. Romney's contention that the American people favor "cutting back on the scale of government" is not the full story or even the most accurate summary of recent nonpartisan polls. 
The findings of a poll last month for The New York Times/CBS News were typical of others, including more recent polls. By 59 percent to 29 percent, Americans say "creating jobs" should be a higher priority for the federal government than "cutting spending" - a nearly a 2-to-1 ratio that is consistent with results for that question over the past year. Also, majorities in the Times/CBS poll wanted federal aid to go to strapped state governments (52 percent) and to job-creating infrastructure projects like bridges, airports and schools (80 percent). Again, those findings are similar to those of other national polls.
- 
9 P.M. | Fact Check: Romney on Repatriation
Mitt Romney said he favored a tax holiday that would let companies bring back profits earned in foreign countries - "Bring a trillion three back from overseas," he said - without paying regular taxes on the money. He said such a tax holiday would help spur economic growth.
That's big money, to be sure, and the plan is popular with corporate executives.
But a wide range of economists who have studied the idea say a tax holiday would do little to spur economic growth. The conservative Heritage Foundation, for example, said in a report published last week that a tax holiday on foreign profits would "have a minuscule effect on domestic investment and thus have a minuscule effect on the U.S. economy and job creation."
One key reason: Companies are already sitting on record amounts of cash. Money is not the reason that companies are holding back. If they wanted to invest in research, or build new factories, or hire workers, they could. The problem, according to corporate executives, is a lack of demand for their products.
Another reason: We've tried a tax holiday before, in 2004, and it didn't work. The Internal Revenue Service reported that 843 corporations brought back $312 billion to the United States. But a 2009 study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the corporations mostly gave the money directly to shareholders in the form of dividends.
- 
8:48 P.M. | Cain Time
For the first time in the race, Mr. Cain finds himself at the center of the debate. He is seated next to Mr. Romney, who leads in the polls, and fielded the first question, about what he would do specifically to end the paralysis in Washington.
Later, when Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor, joked that Mr. Cain's 9-9-9 tax plan - which calls for individual and corporate income taxes to be reduced to 9 percent, along with a new 9 percent national sales tax - sounded more like the price of pizza, Mr. Cain tried to clear up any confusion. His plan, he said, "didn't come off a pizza box."
- 
8:47 P.M. | Where Is Rick Perry? 
The first 40 minutes of the debate have featured very little of Mr. Perry, who has been cut out of the center of the screen because Mr. Cain has been seated next to Mr. Romney.
But it's more than that. Mr. Perry's first, hesitant answer to the question of how to turn the economy around focused solely on energy policy.
After that, he got only one more chance to speak, this time after a video of Ronald Reagan talking about the need for both tax increases and spending cuts was shown.
"I don't think he ever saw those reductions," Mr. Perry said of Mr. Reagan. "He just saw the increases."
This debate is seen as a crucial moment for Mr. Perry, who stumbled badly in the last few debates. Observers have looked for a forceful performance tonight to turn around his campaign.
Mr. Perry still has time to engage that way, if the moderators give him the opportunity. But so far, most of the attention has been focused on Mr. Romney and Mr. Cain.
- 
8:44 P.M. | The Cain-Romney Dynamic
Herman Cain said he would use his appearance tonight to go after Mitt Romney. Yet there he was in the first half hour of the debate Mr. Romney, along with himself, over past statements supporting the bank bailout of 2008. Like Mr. Romney, Mr. Cain said he supported it in theory, but not in implementation.
"I happen to agree with Governor Romney, the way it was administrated is where it got off track," he said. "I didn't agree with it - I didn't think Governor Romney agreed with it."
It's early yet, but If that's "going after Romney," it's good to be Mr. Romney.
- 
8:41 P.M. | Romney on Bank Bailouts 
A series of questions to Mr. Romney about bank bailouts clearly demonstrated the political dangers of a live, nationally televised debate. 
Asked whether he would support another bailout if the nation's economy were once again teetering on the edge, Mr. Romney did not just say no, as many of the Tea Party conservatives might have wanted. 
Instead, he tried to walk the line between denouncing bailouts of specific institutions for the purpose of rescuing their investors and acknowledging the potential need to take bold action.
"If you think the entire economic system is going to collapse, you take action to make sure that doesn't happen," Mr. Romney said, apparently endorsing the actions taken in 2008 that became the Troubled Asset Relief Program bailouts.
But he quickly added, "No one likes the idea of a Wall Street bailout," and then later added: "Bailouts of individual institutions? No one has interest in that, I don't think." 
The answers veered perilously close to support of bailouts, a position that could be used by his rivals in later television commercials aimed at conservative voters. Will they pick up on it during the debate? 
- 
8:36 P.M. | Fact Check: Bachmann on Health Care Rationing
Asked whether Americans were getting a good deal from federal spending on health care, Representative Michele Bachmann raised the issue of the financial peril facing the Medicare trust fund. She repeated one of her favorite stories from the campaign trail - about Mr. Obama revealing during a White House meeting, sotto voce, that his real plan for averting Medicare insolvency is to see the system go broke, so the elderly will be forced into "Obamacare."
Once in that system, created by the health care overhaul law passed last year, their medical care will be rationed by a government board of 15 bureaucrats, she said.
In fact, the health care legislation does not eliminate Medicare. It attempts to avert insolvency by lowering the costs of care. The board she refers to, the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which the law established to help control costs, cannot ration care or cut benefits, according to The New England Journal of Medicine.
Under the law, beginning in 2014 the board can submit to Congress ideas for capping costs, but Congress must approve.
- 
8:24 P.M. | So Far, So Civil
Very little engagement so far on the contentious issues of the last several days. Mr. Perry and Mr. Romney are sitting just feet apart, but so far the focus on the economy has kept things largely civil.
Nothing on Mr. Romney's religion. Nothing on the issue of race for Mr. Perry. Nothing about the issue of Mr. Romney's pattern of changing his positions over the years.
That may yet change. The candidates are able to craft their answers the way they want regardless of the question they are asked. Some are better than others at that.
And all of the candidates will be given the opportunity to ask each other questions later.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Fact Check: Federal Reserve 
Newt Gingrich is incorrect to say that the Federal Reserve has "spent hundreds of billions of dollars" to bail out financial companies.
The Fed has made several trillion dollars in loans to financial companies since the beginning of the financial crisis. However, the central bank has not lost any money on those loans and investments. To the contrary, the Fed is making the largest profits in its history - money that it sends to the Treasury Department each year.
- 
8:18 P.M. | Contrasting Perry and Romney on Economy
The opening minutes of the debate offered an interesting contrast between Mitt Romney and Gov. Rick Perry.
On the question of how to get Washington to confront the economic malaise, both men turned the answers to themselves. But Mr. Romney talked broadly about leadership while Mr. Perry talked about energy policy.
"Be prepared to be a leader," Mr Romney said before criticizing President Obama as not having the experience to lead.
Mr. Perry talked about his plan to put 1.2 million people to work in the energy industry: "Open up this treasure trove that America is sitting on. It's time for another American declaration of independence. It's time for energy independence."
The difference between the answers was striking. And Mr. Perry seemed a bit nervous, especially when pressed about his broader plan for the economy.
"Mitt's had six years to be working on a plan," he said. "I've been in this for about eight weeks."
- 
8:11 P.M. | More on 9-9-9
What would be effect on federal tax revenues of the Cain 9-9-9 plan
From @wasouder1, on Twitter
Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan is basically a pair of proposals: deep cuts in the existing federal taxes on individual and corporate income, both of which would be reduced to a flat rate of 9 percent from existing rates that run above 30 percent, combined with a new 9 percent national sales tax.
Mr. Cain has provided only a broad sketch of how such a plan would work, making it impossible to evaluate exactly how much money the government would raise.
But one clear feature of the proposal is that it would shift the burden of taxation, as Bruce Bartlett noted in a recent piece for The New York Times. By cutting income tax rates and imposing a sales tax to make up the difference, the plan would reduce taxes on higher-income families and raise taxes on lower-income families - including many families who pay no taxes under the current system. Some of those lower-income families, who now receive payments from the government, would instead be required to pay taxes.
It's also important to note that the plan is intended as a transitional stage. Mr. Cain proposes the ultimate elimination of income taxes, in favor of a flat 30 percent sales tax.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Candidates Take the Stage
HANOVER, N.H. - The candidates have been announced and are on the stage. And quite a different look it is.
The eight of them are seated around what looks like a boardroom table - dark wood with black armchairs. A good look for a debate focused on the economy and jobs.
- 
7:39 P.M. | The Architects of 9-9-9
Cain said he developed a dynamic calc. system to get to his 999. He also stated that he had did it with economists. Who are they?
From @Juicexlx, on Twitter
MSNBC's First Read wrote about the anonymity of Mr. Cain's economic advisers in a blog post this morning, noting that in an interview on "Fox News Sunday," Mr. Cain was reluctant to provide their identities or details of their involvement:
"The issue came to a head on 'Fox News Sunday' on Sept. 18, when moderator Chris Wallace tried to pin Cain down about who helped him craft the 999 plan. Cain said it was his work, along with his senior economic adviser Rich Lowrie and 'some of the best-known economists in this country.' As to who those economists are, he said they have their own independent businesses and he could not compromise their confidentiality."
- 
7:16 P.M. | Debate Pre-Game
HANOVER, N.H. - It's a cool, crisp New England evening at Dartmouth, and the fall foliage is spectacular - the perfect setting for a bruising debate. 
Tonight's debate is being hosted by The Washington Post and Bloomberg News, which provided an early Thanksgiving meal of turkey, stuffing, gravy and pie for the reporters covering the event.
Bloomberg employees (of which there appear to be many) held their own pre-debate party, where - so I'm told - there were lobster rolls to be had. Their reporters have returned to the press filing center looking well fed.
- 
6:15 P.M. | The Race Revs Up
HANOVER, N.H. - Get ready for a wild ride at tonight's Republican debate.
In the past few days, the presidential campaign has become far more intense, with candidates taking aim at Mitt Romney's character and questions resurfacing about his Mormon faith.
The sparring has grown even more testy in just the hours before the debate, when Mr. Romney called on Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, to repudiate a supporter who called Mormonism "a cult."
Not only did Mr. Perry refuse, but in a news release to reporters Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Perry's spokesman called on Mr. Romney to "repudiate" his health care plan.
"We call on Mr. Romney to repudiate government-mandated health care as crafted in Romneycare and admit his policies and advisers ushered in Obamacare's costly and destructive health care mandates," said Mark Miner, the spokesman.
The debate is designed as a conversation about economic issues. But that may not stop other issues from bubbling to the surface, especially with passions as high as they are.
We'll be providing real-time analysis and fact checking on our live dashboard, and also taking suggestions from readers for candidate statements that deserve a closer look. You can submit via Twitter with the hashtag #asknyt or submit on the dashboard, once we're live. We'll be starting around 7:30 p.m. Eastern.
- 

        
The Gloves Come Off at Iowa Debate
        
Debate Watch: Student View, the Last Debate
        
Debate Watch: Student View
        
Debate Watch: Meet the Panelists
        
Live-Blogging the Democratic Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BANK FAILURES (85%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RELIGION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%) debates; live blogging; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK PERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



519 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2075 words

HEADLINE: Fact Checking the Republican Debate on the Economy

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Examining Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan, Texas state debt, the impact of Obamacare on job creation and cutting government. 

 BODY:
Santorum Criticizes TARP
Rick Santorum boasted that unlike four of his Republican rivals, he opposed the 2008 bank bailout, called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, when he was in Congress. He called it "the single biggest government intrusion into the private sector," said it was unconstitutional and suggested without naming President Obama that Mr. Obama had driven "a truck through it" to "explode the size of the federal government and constrict our freedom." 
Congress passed the TARP legislation, which provided up to $700 billion to bail out financial institutions, and President George W. Bush signed it into law in early October 2008. The overwhelming consensus of financial analysts and economists is that TARP ultimately prevented the collapse of the global financial system. The Treasury Department ended up spending less than $500 billion of the $700 billion for assistance to banks, and most of that credit was extended before Mr. Obama took office. The Treasury during the Obama administration has recouped all of the bank loans and taxpayers have earned money, thanks to the interest the banks had to pay and the proceeds the Treasury recovered upon selling the warrants that banks had to post as collateral. 
- 
Texas State Debt
Mr. Perry, positioning himself as a candidate with the government experience to take on the federal budget deficit, described himself as a scourge of debt in his home state. Texas, Mr. Perry said Texas had the sixth-lowest debt per capita when he took office a decade ago, and now had the second-lowest debt per capita.
In this article about state debt, Forbes magazine ranked Texas at 49th in the country in 2009, the most recent year for which data is available. And federal census figures appear to back Mr. Perry's assertion up.
On the other hand, saying that Texas has less debt per resident compared with other states isn't the same as saying that state debt has decreased. In July, Mitchell Schnurman, a columnist for The Star-Telegram of Fort Worth, using data from the Texas Bond Review Board, wrote that Texas's total debt had increased in the last decade, to $37.8 billion from $13.4 billion.
Not only that, but Texas debt has increased during that period at a faster rate than federal debt.
That is in part because Texas, which has enjoyed an economic boom and attendant growth in population, has been expanding. And Texas has used debt in part to finance new highways, prisons and roads, much as other states do. Most of the added debt load under Mr. Perry's tenure has paid for road projects -- projects the state's Department of Transportation could not pay for with borrowed money until 2001, when voters approved an amendment to the state constitution.
- 
Bachmann on 'Obamacare' and Jobs
Asked by Mr. Romney what she would do to spur job creation, Mrs. Bachmann said she would repeal the national health care law. "The No. 1 reason employers say they aren't hiring today is 'Obamacare,' " she said.
That is a big stretch. Data from the National Federation of Independent Business, which surveys small-business owners monthly, shows that employers' concerns about government regulations are about the same level they were under Ronald Reagan, according to an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute. By far the most common reason small businesses report failing to hire is poor sales, not requirements under the new health care law.
- 
Subprime Mortgage Lending 
 Earlier in the debate, Michele Bachmann suggested that the federal government caused the boom in subprime mortgage lending by pushing banks to lower "platinum level" lending standards.
There are two problems with that assertion. The most important problem is that the vast majority of subprime loans were not made by banks or other lenders regulated by the federal government. They were made by mortgage companies that were not subject to regulation of any kind. The problem, if anything, was the complete lack of government supervision.
The assertion also mischaracterizes the historical relationship between the government and banks. Regulators can sometimes prevent banks from acting, but there is almost no evidence that the government can push banks to make loans they don't want to make. This point has been underscored over the last two years, as the Obama administration has begged and pleaded with banks to start making loans, and banks have largely declined to do so.
Banks did make subprime loans in large numbers, and the reason they did so, according to their own executives, was that they saw a chance to make lots of money.
- 
Gingrich on Health Care 
Earlier in the debate, Mr. Gingrich condemned a proposal of a government task force to end routine tests for prostate cancer in men, saying it would cause deaths. But the panel that made the recommendation concluded that the test itself had caused deaths and injuries unnecessarily.
Mr. Gingrich was referring to a draft recommendation of the United States Preventive Services Task Force, which concluded after five clinical trials that healthy men should no longer receive a P.S.A. blood test to screen for prostate cancer because the test does not save lives over all and often leads to treatments causing pain, impotence and incontinence for many.
The panel's decision has provoked controversy, much like its recommendation two years ago that women in their 40s did not need routine mammograms. But the panel was even more forceful in its conclusion about the prostate test, which is a lucrative business. "Unfortunately, the evidence now shows that this test does not save men's lives," said Dr. Virginia Moyer, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine and chairwoman of the task force. "This test cannot tell the difference between cancers that will and will not affect a man during his natural lifetime. We need to find one that does."
As The New York Times reported last week, from 1986 through 2005, one million men received surgery, radiation therapy or both who would not have been treated without a P.S.A. test, according to the task force. Among them, at least 5,000 died soon after surgery and 10,000 to 70,000 suffered serious complications. Half had persistent blood in their semen, and 200,000 to 300,000 suffered impotence, incontinence or both. As a result of these complications, Dr. Richard J. Ablin, discoverer of a prostate-specific antigen, has called its widespread use a "public health disaster."
Mr. Gingrich incorrectly said the panel had no medical specialists. Recommendations of the task force can determine whether Medicare and private health plans envisioned under the national health care law pay fully for a test. But legislation already requires Medicare to pay for P.S.A. testing no matter what the task force recommends.
As for Mr. Gingrich's claim that Sarah Palin was correct a couple of years ago to suggest that such government-sponsored groups are "death panels," the editors of PolitiFact, the award-winning fact-checking site of The St. Petersburg Times, chose the death panel claim as "Lie of the Year" in 2009.
- 
'Cutting Back' Government
Mr. Romney's contention that the American people favor "cutting back on the scale of government" is not the full story or even the most accurate summary of recent nonpartisan polls. 
The findings of a poll last month for The New York Times/CBS News were typical of others, including more recent polls. By 59 percent to 29 percent, Americans say "creating jobs" should be a higher priority for the federal government than "cutting spending" -- a nearly a 2-to-1 ratio that is consistent with results for that question over the past year. Also, majorities in the Times/CBS poll wanted federal aid to go to strapped state governments (52 percent) and to job-creating infrastructure projects like bridges, airports and schools (80 percent). Again, those findings are similar to those of other national polls.
- 
Romney on Repatriation
Mitt Romney said he favored a tax holiday that would let companies bring back profits earned in foreign countries -- "Bring a trillion three back from overseas," he said -- without paying regular taxes on the money. He said such a tax holiday would help spur economic growth.
That's big money, to be sure, and the plan is popular with corporate executives.
But a wide range of economists who have studied the idea say a tax holiday would do little to spur economic growth. The conservative Heritage Foundation, for example, said in a report published last week that a tax holiday on foreign profits would "have a minuscule effect on domestic investment and thus have a minuscule effect on the U.S. economy and job creation."
One key reason: Companies are already sitting on record amounts of cash. Money is not the reason that companies are holding back. If they wanted to invest in research, or build new factories, or hire workers, they could. The problem, according to corporate executives, is a lack of demand for their products.
Another reason: We've tried a tax holiday before, in 2004, and it didn't work. The Internal Revenue Service reported that 843 corporations brought back $312 billion to the United States. But a 2009 study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the corporations mostly gave the money directly to shareholders in the form of dividends.
- 
Bachmann on Health Care Rationing
Asked whether Americans were getting a good deal from federal spending on health care, Representative Michele Bachmann raised the issue of the financial peril facing the Medicare trust fund. She repeated one of her favorite stories from the campaign trail -- about Mr. Obama revealing during a White House meeting, sotto voce, that his real plan for averting Medicare insolvency is to see the system go broke, so the elderly will be forced into "Obamacare."
Once in that system, created by the health care overhaul law passed last year, their medical care will be rationed by a government board of 15 bureaucrats, she said.
In fact, the health care legislation does not eliminate Medicare. It attempts to avert insolvency by lowering the costs of care. The board she refers to, the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which the law established to help control costs, cannot ration care or cut benefits, according to The New England Journal of Medicine.
Under the law, beginning in 2014 the board can submit to Congress ideas for capping costs, but Congress must approve.
- 
Role of the Federal Reserve 
Newt Gingrich is incorrect to say that the Federal Reserve has "spent hundreds of billions of dollars" to bail out financial companies.
The Fed has made several trillion dollars in loans to financial companies since the beginning of the financial crisis. However, the central bank has not lost any money on those loans and investments. To the contrary, the Fed is making the largest profits in its history -- money that it sends to the Treasury Department each year.
- 
More on 9-9-9
Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan is basically a pair of proposals: deep cuts in the existing federal taxes on individual and corporate income, both of which would be reduced to a flat rate of 9 percent from existing rates that run above 30 percent, combined with a new 9 percent national sales tax.
Mr. Cain has provided only a broad sketch of how such a plan would work, making it impossible to evaluate exactly how much money the government would raise.
But one clear feature of the proposal is that it would shift the burden of taxation, as Bruce Bartlettnoted in a recent piece for The New York Times. By cutting income tax rates and imposing a sales tax to make up the difference, the plan would reduce taxes on higher-income families and raise taxes on lower-income families -- including many families who pay no taxes under the current system. Some of those lower-income families, who now receive payments from the government, would instead be required to pay taxes.
It's also important to note that the plan is intended as a transitional stage. Mr. Cain proposes the ultimate elimination of income taxes, in favor of a flat 30 percent sales tax.
- 
An earlier version of this post incorrectly described the work of Richard J. Ablin. Dr. Ablin discovered a prostate-specific antigen; he did not develop the P.S.A. test.

        
Fact Checking the G.O.P. Debate in Orlando
        
Fact Check: Social Security, Health Care and More
        
A Look at the Debates, Beyond the Big Moments
        
Caucus Video: Romney, Center Stage
        
Perry Fades Into Background in Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (83%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); TRENDS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); CENSUS (67%); WRITERS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%) debates; fact-check; Appelbaum, Binyamin; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Calmes, Jackie; Confessore, Nicholas; Gabriel, Trip; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Economic Conditions and Trends; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (89%); HERMAN CAIN (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Appelbaum, Binyamin; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Calmes, Jackie; Confessore, Nicholas; Gabriel, Trip; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



520 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Romney Readies for Health Care Attacks at Debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: An NBC report on the similarities between the national and Massachusetts health care plans is timed perfectly for Mitt Romney's opponents. 

 BODY:
HANOVER, N.H. -- If there's one thing that Mitt Romney is bracing for at Tuesday night's debate, it is an assault on his health care record as governor of Massachusetts.
On Tuesday morning, NBC was out with a report that several consultants who helped design Mr. Romney's health care plan visited the White House while President Obama and his aides were putting together the national health care law that Republicans call "Obamacare."
The report is timed perfectly for Mr. Romney's opponents, who have tried repeatedly to use the similarities between the health care plans to raise suspicions about Mr. Romney's commitment to the conservative cause.
That effort is likely to pick up steam at the debate, which is meant to focus on economic issues. Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, and the other Republican rivals are certain to view the health care issue as a central part of Mr. Romney's economic record. 
A sharp-edged video released this week by Mr. Perry's campaign begins: "America's most damaging prescription: Obamacare." It quickly morphs into "Romneycare" and is followed by the image of Mr. Obama looking in a mirror and seeing Mr. Romney's reflection.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Romney said the ad was evidence of a "desperate candidate" and Mr. Perry was guilty of "repeated dishonesty, distortions and fabrications about Mitt Romney."
But advisers to Mr. Romney's campaign are aware that the attacks on the issue are almost certain to continue.
The report by NBC News said three advisers to Mr. Romney's health care plan -- Jon Kingsdale, Jon Gruber and John McDonough -- had visited the White House and met with Mr. Obama on one occasion.
During a news conference on Tuesday afternoon at which he was endorsed by Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor, Mr. Romney disputed that the three were his health care advisers.
"They were people who were consultants and so forth," he said. And he repeated his usual answer, that Mr. Obama should have called him if he wanted to know what he thought.
"If he had talked to me, I would have told him that the plan he was crafting wouldn't work," Mr. Romney said. "We certainly can't afford another trillion dollars of federal spending."
Mr. Romney pledged that as president he would grant waivers to all 50 states allowing them to avoid implementing the president's health care plan before he moved to try to repeal it altogether.
That is the message he will offer if the subject comes up during the debate. Mr. Romney's aides are betting that that is good enough for most voters. Mr. Romney's rivals are counting on the possibility that it leaves doubts in the minds of conservatives.
We may not know who is right until the voting actually begins.

        
Caucus Video: Pressure on Debates
        
What if Perry Skips the Debates?
        
Consider the Romney-Perry Showdown (and Talk It Over)
        
Debate Suggests Brutish Campaign to Come
        
Las Vegas Debate Fact Check

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%) debates; health care reform; Romney, Mitt; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2012; NBC News; Massachusetts; New Hampshire; Elections

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NBC News

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK PERRY (77%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Massachusetts; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



521 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann Releases Her Economic Plan

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: An 11-point blueprint that includes repealing "radical environmental laws." 

 BODY:
It doesn't have the catchiness of Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan. It is more succinct than Mitt Romney's 59-point proposal. 
In advance of Tuesday night's Republican presidential debate on the economy, Michele Bachmann laid out an 11-point blueprint for creating jobs and restoring prosperity. 
Its mix of proposals, echoing her themes from the campaign trail, call for repealing the Obama administration's health-care and financial-industry regulatory laws, cutting taxes and government spending, and declaring a tax holiday on $1.2 trillion in foreign earnings of American companies.
The proposals include some sweeping and specific promises. By "repealing radical environmental laws," Mrs. Bachmann says in a statement, the country would put itself on the road to energy independence and reap $800 billion of new tax revenue and 1.4 million new jobs.
Mrs. Bachmann says that American "job creators" spend trillions of dollars to comply with government regulations and issues a call to action: "This red-tape rampage must stop.'' 
She would overturn the Dodd-Frank Act, the effort to address the causes of the financial crisis, which she says overregulates banks and makes it harder for Americans to get credit. The real cause of the financial crisis, she argues, was "leverage," and she calls for phasing out two institutions that many Republicans say were responsible for easy credit in the housing bubble, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
Her tax proposals are less specific than Mr. Cain's and some others: she would chop away the inheritance tax, "make the corporate tax code simpler and fairer" and reduce the number of tax brackets. 
Point No. 1 in her plan is to let American companies repatriate the cash they have parked abroad without taxes through Dec. 31. She says a tax holiday, which many companies are lobbying hard for, would do more than Mr. Obama's 2009 "failed" stimulus package to pump money into the economy, without digging into "taxpayer wallets.'' 
Economists disagree on the merit of a corporate tax holiday. The Treasury Department concluded that an earlier holiday in 2005 did not create many jobs - companies used the windfall to buy back stock instead - and the conservative Heritage Foundation, in a report this month, argued that a tax holiday was no jobs bonanza. 
Mrs. Bachmann enters Tuesday's debate needing to make a strong impression after a sharp drop in popularity in national polls. But the debate's focus on the economy is not her strongest suit compared with other candidates with business backgrounds or experience as governors. In a new poll by The Washington Post and Bloomberg News, sponsors of the debate, Republicans and Republican-leaning independents said that Mrs. Bachmann was the candidate who would do "the most damage to the economy." 
In her blueprint, she concluded: "My solutions are simple. We need to cut government spending, legalize America's God-given natural resources and stop taxing investment and productivity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (76%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); ESTATE TAX (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); CORPORATE TAX (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (50%) Bachmann, Michele M; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Republican Party; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); HERMAN CAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Bachmann, Michele M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



522 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Expanding Efforts to Connect More Americans to Broadband

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
As part of a broad effort to encourage more Americans to use high-speed Internet and be able to compete in the global economy, the Federal Communications Commission has brought together a group of private companies that will offer free computer training to people in disadvantaged communities. 
Starting next year, the familiar blue-shirted Geek Squad from Best Buy, one of the nation's largest electronics retailers, will work through service organizations like Boys and Girls Clubs, Goodwill and 4-H in 20 cities to offer training in basic computer literacy. Microsoft will also offer such training, as well as job-search training, in schools and libraries in 15 states and in their stores nationwide.
''It's one important stop of the train,'' Julius Genachowski, chairman of the F.C.C., said in an interview Tuesday, referring to the many things that need to be done to connect more Americans to the Internet. He plans to announce Wednesday that these companies and others have made a commitment through a new group called Connect to Compete to help more people learn to use computers.
Only 68 percent of Americans with access to high-speed broadband Internet are using it, while in places like South Korea the rate is 90 percent.
More than 80 percent of Fortune 500 companies -- including Wal-Mart and Target -- require job applicants to apply online.
Various studies have shown that the major reasons people do not have broadband are: the cost of Internet services and the cost of computers; not knowing how to use a computer; and not understanding why the Internet is relevant.
As part of its attempt to break down these barriers, Mr. Genachowski said the F.C.C. wanted to start a pilot project that would lead to expanding the number of libraries that teach people how to use computers and apply for jobs online.
Last week, Mr. Genachowski outlined a plan to transform the $8 billion Universal Service Fund, most of which comes from consumers' telephone bills nationwide, from subsidizing telephone service in underserved areas to expanding broadband access in those areas. He said Tuesday that some of the money from this fund could be used to help expand computer classes in libraries.
Moving the nation to full computer literacy, he said, will require multiple approaches. ''There's no single action that will solve all these problems,'' he said, ''but there are a series of initiatives that will move the needle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As part of the F.C.C. initiative, the Best Buy Geek Squad will work with service groups to offer training in basic computer literacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); TELEPHONE RATES (70%); LIBRARIES (69%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (61%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (61%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



523 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: A Contradiction in the Cargo

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Analysts have been raising their predictions for holiday spending ever since the back-to-school shopping season was stronger than most had expected.
But the people who work at the companies that ship and transport retailers' goods are not nearly as optimistic about holiday sales.
When retailers expect that Americans will be crowding into their stores, their orders pile into the nation's ports in August and September for delivery to stores by late October. But logistics companies say that is not happening this year.
''We're concerned, because usually at this time, you see this peak,'' said Richard D. Steinke, the executive director of the Port of Long Beach in California. ''We haven't seen it.'' 
In fact, the five busiest container ports in the United States said that imports in August 2011 were lower than or even with 2010 volumes.
In Long Beach, the second-busiest container port by volume, August imports fell by 14.2 percent from August 2010. While the port has not yet released September volumes, a spokesman, Art Wong, said it expected about a 15 percent drop from September 2010.
The reports from the remaining container ports in the top five were equally gloomy. In New York-New Jersey, the number of incoming containers in August was about flat with last year. In Savannah, Ga., imports in August fell by 4 percent. Oakland reported that August imports were down 0.9 percent from a year earlier. And Los Angeles, the nation's highest-volume container port, counted 5.75 percent fewer containers in August than a year earlier.
''I expect over all the peak season will be muted,'' said Kathryn McDermott, deputy executive director of business development for the Port of Los Angeles.
The holidays receive outsize attention, because sales in November and December tend to make up about a fifth of retailers' sales for the whole year. And retail sales are a crucial indicator of economic health, given the importance of personal consumption in keeping the economy afloat.
In recent weeks, many retail analysts and trade groups have issued fairly positive forecasts about holiday sales.
Last Thursday, the National Retail Federation said it expected holiday sales to rise 2.8 percent over last year. And late last month, the federation said it expected port volumes to rise by at least 4.5 percent a month for the final four months of the year.
At the same time, some analysts revised their holiday forecasts upward after the retailers tracked by Thomson Reuters beat estimates and reported an average 5.1 percent increase in same-store sales for September last Thursday.
''For the holidays,'' Craig R. Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, wrote in a note to clients last week, ''a 5 to 6 percent increase is clearly in reach.''
On Monday, a Citigroup retail analyst, Deborah Weinswig, revised her holiday forecast up by a percentage point, saying she expected 4 percent to 5 percent gains in same-store sales at department stores, up from 3 percent to 4 percent. There is traditionally a strong correlation between the back-to-school and holiday seasons, Ms. Weinswig said. Some retailers are raising their prices because raw-material costs have gone up, she wrote, which would help sales. And the ''surprisingly resilient'' back-to-school season, she wrote, had led to ''our more upbeat outlook.''
In contrast, the people who work at ports, and at train and trucking companies, say the shipments do not seem to be high enough to signal strong holiday sales.
Higher shipping volumes are ''a prediction that sales are going to go up,'' Mr. Steinke said. ''The N.R.F. and some of those groups have said there's going to be an increase in volume coming through the ports. When our August numbers are down and carriers say future loadings aren't all that great, you wonder where that peak is coming from.''
While Mr. Steinke said that retailers occasionally delayed shipping for as long as possible to see how the economy progressed, he said they usually gave transportation companies a heads-up if they were planning a lot of last-minute orders. This year, he said, the retailers do not seem to be expecting that.
''We talk to the railroads, we talk to our ocean carriers, and they're not seeing this big peak, or bracing themselves for a big late peak,'' Mr. Steinke said.
Ms. McDermott of the Los Angeles port had a similar take.
''The N.R.F. came out with some numbers for strong growth, but I think what we're seeing is consistent with the trends over all in the U.S.,'' she said, and that is ''some very small, maybe, or muted peak season, September, October, and then probably flat for the rest of the year.''
The slowdown seems to be occurring on land, too.
''We're not seeing any real, significant peak,'' said Steve Branscum, group vice president for consumer products marketing at the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway, referring to the company's import business. The railway typically has increased imports in August through November. But this year, he said, ''the last three months, July, August, September, our numbers have been pretty flat compared year over year to the same month, and the West Coast imports have been down a little bit.''
Mr. Branscum added: ''If the economy's going pretty strong and retailers are anticipating a very strong holiday season, then a lot of times they will start bringing in holiday goods sooner in the year than they otherwise would. If they have a little bit of uncertainty, or feel like there's not going to be a real strong holiday season, they will wait a little later, and I think that's the case this year.''
FedEx's chairman and chief executive, Frederick W. Smith, said last week that shipping across the Pacific in June through August ''was a bit lighter than we had thought it would be.'' During that period, international priority shipments fell compared with a year earlier, the company said in its conference call in September. Alan B. Graf Jr., the chief financial officer, offered a detail. ''Simply stated, we put capacity out anticipating traffic that did not materialize,'' Mr. Graf said.
Mr. Smith said last week that ''people have been very cautious about adding inventories with all of the uncertainty.'' He added, ''If they have cut it too tight, there will be a lot of lost sales.'' Mr. Smith cited forecasts for a 2.5 to 3 percent increase in holiday retail sales this year.
Joshua Owen, president of Ability/Tri-Modal Transportation Services, a trucking company based in Southern California, said the light volume and lack of a shipping peak did not surprise him.
''In reality, when people aren't able to even afford homes, and they don't have jobs, they're not going to be buying a lot of creature comforts,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a slowdown in container port traffic that may indicate a weaker holiday retail season described incorrectly a forecast from Frederick W. Smith, chief executive of FedEx. Mr. Smith cited forecasts for a 2.5 to 3 percent increase in retail sales this holiday season; he was not referring to expectations for an increase in that range for FedEx holiday shipping volumes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: August imports at the Port of Long Beach fell 14.2 percent from a year ago, and September is forecast to fall 15 percent. (B1)
The executive director of the Port of Long Beach said the usual shipping peak had not been seen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) CHART: LOADED SHIPPING CONTAINERS ARRIVING AT TWO U.S. PORTS: Imports arriving in August each year
 20-foot container equivalents (Sources: Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011



524 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Response Of the Police Is Expanding With Protests

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Reporting was contributed by Jess Bidgood from Boston, Ian Lovett from Los Angeles, Jada F. Smith from Washington, Stacey Solie from Seattle, Dan Frosch from Denver, Steven Yaccino from Chicago, Robbie Brown from Atlanta, and Rob Harris and Cara Buckley from New York.

 BODY:
DENVER -- Whatever the original impulse behind ''Occupy Wall Street,'' or the speculation of what the movement might become, this much is true: The groups of protesters, now camping or hanging out in many American cities, and the police agencies that have responsibility for public safety and order, are both shifting into new postures of action and response.
Whether that evolving chemistry will push things toward more confrontation remains unclear. But the combination -- new participants, new police tactics -- is clearly opening an uncertain chapter in a story that from its inception has embraced the notion of unplanned, unscripted civil action. 
People like Darrel Egemo, 75, a former money manager, are part of this new ferment. Mr. Egemo came to the protests, now in their third week, on the grounds of the State Capitol here for the first time on Tuesday.
''I decided they needed one person in a necktie and sport coat,'' Mr. Egemo said, looking dapper as he waved a sign to motorists, reading, ''Integrity sold short by greed.''
Larger numbers are pushing protesters into new areas as well, raising tensions.
In Boston early Tuesday morning, about 100 protesters were arrested when the group expanded from its previous area in the center of Dewey Square in the financial district to a nearby part of the Rose Kennedy Greenway, part of the necklace of open park space through downtown.
By Tuesday morning, protesters were in sharp disagreement at their general assembly meeting whether the group should have expanded its turf, and whether it had been a collective decision.
''More people are coming, we're not shrinking,'' said Philip Anderson, an unemployed recent college graduate who has been acting as a spokesman. ''If we grow into a place they don't want us, it may come to another standoff like last night. We hope they don't make the decision to use violence against us, but we'll have to deal with whatever happens as it comes up.''
In Los Angeles, where protesters as recently as last week were dominated by young people in what seemed a tie-dye and guitar-circle subculture, a second wave of older protesters and homeless people has gravitated toward the encampment at City Hall, demonstrators said.
Elise Whitaker, 21, a freelance script editor and assistant film director, said she thought it was about technology -- older protesters took longer to tune in to the gatherings, she said, which had been organized largely through Internet social networks.
''It is the youth who spend the majority of our time on Facebook and Twitter,'' she said. ''That's why we knew about it first.''
In Seattle, officials began on Monday pressuring protesters to relocate to City Hall from Westlake Park, in the busy downtown shopping district, after what had been a mostly peaceful, if statutorily illegal standoff.
The police showed up at 10 p.m. Monday and announced that the park was closed for the night, said Gabriel Bell, a volunteer legal adviser for Occupy Seattle. Anyone who stayed was at risk of being arrested, they were warned. After a fourth announcement at 11 p.m., Mr. Bell said, the protesters went across the street to avoid arrest. Many slept in doorways of nearby businesses, but the police kept their flashing lights going all night, making it difficult to sleep, protesters said.
Shifting coalitions and alliances are also complicating the internal politics of the protest movement.
In Chicago, for example, protesters from Occupy Chicago joined forces on Tuesday with members of Action Now, a group concerned with vacant lots in the city's South and West Side neighborhoods.
The combined groups piled at least a dozen garbage bags on the sidewalk in front of the Bank of America building in the Chicago Loop, along with couches and other trash that they said had been pulled from a foreclosed property. Five women, ranging in age from 56 to 80, were arrested there after they went inside the bank lobby and scattered trash.
In Washington, where disparate groups of protesters with overlapping agendas from pacifism to poverty have been demonstrating in recent days, members of a group called Veterans for Peace joined in on Tuesday, crowding the atrium of the Hart Senate Office Building, which they entered a few at a time before unfurling colorful banners and an upside-down American flag.
''We want to stop the financial influence on our government and we want our people to be taken care of,'' said Leah Bolger, national vice president of Veterans for Peace.
In some places, the new alliances are making for some fine-point factional clarification. A spokesman for Occupy Chicago, Micah Philbrook, emphasized that his group had voted to join a week of protests organized by a coalition called Stand Up Chicago, but had not become members of that coalition in participating in Tuesday's activities, including the one at the Bank of America.
''We don't want people to think that we are being co-opted by other movements,'' Mr. Philbrook said. ''Occupy Chicago, like all the Occupy movements, stands apart from any political parties, stands apart from any existing movement.''
A sometimes tentative police response is adding its own element to the mix. In Atlanta, protesters were warned by the police on Tuesday that if, at 11 p.m., they were still in Woodruff Park, a small oasis in the heart of downtown, they would be arrested. Anyone who does not want to be arrested can simply leave the park, the police said. But protesters said they were told the same thing on Monday. Instead, dozens of police officers showed up but made no arrests.
The protesters also seem to have significant numbers of uncounted allies, silent or on the sidelines, at least for now.
Daniel Eavenson, an engineer in Chicago, said he had only been ''witnessing.''
''There are millions of us watching online and sending out our hope,'' he said.
In New York, a ''Millionaire's March'' of about 400 people affiliated with Occupy Wall Street wound its way through Upper East Side on Tuesday afternoon, with participants protesting outside the homes of financial titans, including JPMorgan Chase's Jamie Dimon, the media mogul Rupert Murdoch and the industrialist David H. Koch.
The march was peaceful, if noisy, with protesters chanting, trumpeting and drumming their way along Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue under the watchful gaze of dozens of police officers and doormen like John Tima, who stood at the entry to 791 Park Avenue.
''What are they going to accomplish out of this? What's going to happen, higher taxes for rich people? O.K.,'' he shrugged.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOS ANGELES: A sticker on a tent at City Hall parodied a highway sign that warns of illegal immigrants who dart into traffic while fleeing border security, once a problem in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DENVER: Protesters painted a banner Tuesday at Lincoln Park, where newcomers included a 75-year-old former money manager. Older participants have been seen as part of a second wave. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHICAGO: Shani Smith was arrested Tuesday after a sit-in outside the Hyatt Regency Hotel. In addition, five women were arrested for scattering trash inside the Bank of America building. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
WASHINGTON: The Capitol police carried away a demonstrator in the Hart Senate Office Building. Members of Veterans for Peace crowded the atrium, unfurling colorful banners and an upside-down American flag. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)
NEW YORK: The Occupy Wall Street protesters marched Park Avenue on Tuesday, heading to the homes of the city's financial titans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BOSTON: Dave Trauterman, 20, of Raynham, Mass., on Tuesday tied the window flaps of his tent pitched in Dewey Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLICE FORCES (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); LITIGATION (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); ARRESTS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); SOCIAL MEDIA (62%); RELOCATIONS (60%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



525 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Alumni Tutoring Effort Strives to Raise Diversity At Elite Public Schools

BYLINE: By ANNA M. PHILLIPS

 BODY:
On a Saturday morning in August, Philip Cleary stood in a white, fluorescent-lit classroom in Washington Heights, facing a dozen sleepy seventh graders he and others are training to pass an entrance exam for the city's seven specialized high schools.
''The inequality question,'' he said. ''Who was struggling with that?'' He was asking about a problem on a math practice sheet, but it might as easily have been a question directed to the city's elite public schools. 
For more than a decade, the number of black and Hispanic students scoring high enough to be offered a seat at the city's specialized high schools has been on the decline.
Last February, just 12 black and 13 Hispanic students were admitted to Stuyvesant High School, which had 3,287 students. At Brooklyn Technical High School, which is the largest of the elites and offered seats last school year to more black and Hispanic students than any other specialized high school, the percentages are dropping. During the 2010-11 school year, black students were about 11 percent of the school's 5,140 students, a drop from 21 percent in 2002.
Admission to those schools hinges on a single exam, given every October to thousands of eighth graders (this year's test is on Oct. 29 and 30). Now a handful of graduates from the elite schools have started tutoring programs with a singular focus, meant to prepare low-income, minority students to pass it.
In Washington Heights, graduates of Stuyvesant High School and the Bronx High School of Science run the Science Schools Initiative, a yearlong free tutoring program held for three hours every Saturday morning. To qualify, students must show promise on a diagnostic exam and meet the city's benchmark for poverty.
''The whole point of this thing is basically to get economically disadvantaged kids into these schools,'' said Mr. Cleary, who until recently was the program's executive director. ''I'm not looking to hit a certain number; I'm looking for some equilibrium.''
Of the 53 students in the program who took the exam in 2010, 31 were Hispanic, 12 were Asian, 7 were black and 3 were white. Although they came from schools like Mott Hall II and Junior High School 54 Booker T. Washington, where many students are high-achieving, most of them lived in poorer neighborhoods and commuted long distances to school. Of that group, nearly 45 percent received offers to one of the seven specialized high schools. Others were given scholarships to private schools.
Darren Guez and Michael Mascetti, both 27-year-old Stuyvesant graduates, founded the Science Schools Initiative in 2007 with one class of 11 students. Mr. Guez, who is a lawyer, said the idea occurred to him while he was a student. ''I was always alone on the A train going uptown'' from his school, Mr. Guez said. ''And I thought that was very strange.'' He knew at age 17 that he wanted to help more students like him pass the entrance exam, he said.
As the program grew, he gradually brought in Mr. Cleary, a graduate of Bronx Science, as well as other young graduates. From the beginning, the program's founders were aware that the city's Department of Education had its own preparatory program, known as the Specialized High Schools Institute. But they were critical of its results. So, Mr. Guez recalls deciding, ''I might as well make one that works.''
Another specialized high school boot camp begun this year has a similar focus. That program, the Stuyvesant High School Black Alumni Diversity Initiative, was created by Renee Eubanks, a 1981 Stuyvesant graduate who was frustrated by the school's decreasing racial diversity. For five weeks this fall, 120 students will study for the exam at the Stuyvesant High School building.
According to Pamela Davis-Clarke, another Stuyvesant graduate who is part of the preparatory program, a majority of its students are black and Hispanic, and there is no bar for entry.
The city's preparatory program was designed by Ramon C. Cortines and expanded under Joel I. Klein, both former schools chancellors, and was intended to generate more black and Hispanic candidates for the specialized high schools. But after a 2007 lawsuit, the city stopped giving preference to black and Hispanic students. In 2009, a majority of the students in the program were Hispanic; by last year, most were Asian. Of the 864 city-prepared students who took the admission test last year, 41 percent received an offer from a specialized high school.
Unlike the programs run by graduates, which are highly focused on test preparation, the city's offering is more like an enrichment program. Students study science and read novels, and while they do prepare for the exam, there is also an emphasis on preparing for more demanding class work.
For the Science Schools Initiative, getting students to pass the test is the sole objective.
Classes are quick-paced, informal and devoted to running through multiple-choice questions and reminding students how many points shy they are of a spot at a top school. The classes are small, often no more than a dozen students. Tutors know their students well enough to tell which ones benefit from cheerleading and which ones respond to admonishments.
This year, about 60 students in the Science Schools Initiative program plan to take the exam. For many of them, racial diversity is not something they want to talk about; others describe the statistics as startling.
''For me and friends, we were looking at Stuyvesant's Web site and the population, and it was like 1 percent black,'' Moyosola Oshin, a student at Mott Hall III, said. ''It's like a challenge.''
Though the initiative has relied on some financing from City Council members -- mainly Robert Jackson, chairman of the Education Committee -- it is now moving into new territory. J.H.S. 80 the Mosholu Parkway, a struggling school in the Bronx, has contracted with the program to run test preparation classes for sixth and seventh graders this school year. One result of the tutoring program is that its students' scores on the state's standardized exams have gone up, something that appeals to school administrators. If the initiative can succeed with J.H.S. 80's students, the tutors hope to expand it to other schools.
''There are kids who can do it, but there are not that many,'' Mr. Guez said. ''It's almost as if the greatest challenge for the initiative is finding those kids.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan Yin with students in Washington Heights. The Science Schools Initiative tries to prepare students for an entrance exam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Michael Mascetti, left, and Darren Guez, both 27 and graduates of Stuyvesant, founded the Science Schools Initiative in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



526 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: In Seeking Rate Increases in New York, Health Insurers Fight to Keep Secrets

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Major health insurance companies seeking steep premium increases in New York have submitted memos to state officials to justify the higher rates. Now they are fighting to keep the memos from the public, saying they include trade secrets that competitors could use against them.
''How these companies are setting these rates is vital for the public to know, and should not be treated like a state secret,'' Benjamin M. Lawsky, the state superintendent of financial services, said on Tuesday. ''Transparency will promote healthy competition and enable the public to rigorously comment on proposed rates, two goals that all of us should favor.'' 
Mr. Lawsky, whose new agency oversees the state insurance division, has ordered that the memos be made public. His decision, which will go into effect by the end of November unless the companies obtain a court injunction, ends a longstanding policy that exempted the insurance companies from public access under a ''trade secret'' exception.
The decision followed a battle by a consumer advocacy coalition, Health Care for All New York, which had first sought information for a policyholder in Queens who faced a 76 percent increase in his family's Emblem Health premium. (The fee was later raised by 270 percent.)
Last year, the then-State Insurance Department gained new power to reject rate increases proposed for about three million residents covered by individual and small-group policies. It has since been flooded with consumer protests over proposed premium increases, many of them double-digit percentages. The department does not control rates for customers in large-group plans.
In a typical message, an unemployed 61-year-old, informed that Aetna wanted to raise her $1,932 monthly premium as much as 19.7 percent, wrote: ''I worry every day how I will keep a roof over my head in the future. My teeth are all broken and I cannot afford to get them fixed because all my $$ is going to Aetna. So actually you could say that I am neglecting my health in order to be able to pay for my insurance.''
Aetna, like other carriers, has said premium increases are driven by the actual cost of health care. But consumer advocates dispute such assertions, while complaining that it is hard to challenge the increases without access to the company filings.
Mr. Lawsky's decision would add New York to a list of at least 12 states that make insurance company filings public. It fits with an Obama administration effort, part of the federal health care reform, to curb health care costs through more oversight and transparency when insurance rates are set.
The companies, notified of Mr. Lawsky's decision in late September, had 10 days to file objections. Two companies, Atlantis Health Plan and Humana, have not done so. But 10 others contended in letters last week that disclosure would provide competitors with an unfair advantage, possibly reducing competition and raising prices even higher.
''This matter is of critical importance to us,'' United Health/Oxford wrote Oct. 7, calling the information ''proprietary.'' Aetna wrote that ''public disclosure in this format will provide ready and easy access to comprehensive pricing, product and marketing strategies,'' and warned of ''substantial and irreparable injury to Aetna.'' Another company, Independent Health, said it had spent ''well over $700,000 developing the trade secret documents'' and estimated that the value of keeping them confidential was much higher.
Moreover, other companies argued, the filings are too technical to be understood by consumers.
''Several of the exhibits to the rate application as well as the actuarial memorandum contain not only trade secrets as noted above, but esoteric actuarial pricing precepts best understood by fellow actuaries and health plan competitors,'' Sean M. Doolan, a lawyer representing Excellus, Empire, Connecticut General, and Capital District Physicians' Health Plan wrote to state officials. ''These documents, often speaking of concepts such as morbidity and anti-selection, could cause not only confusion, but also unnecessary alarm to the layman policyholder.''
Elisabeth Benjamin, vice president for health initiatives at the Community Service Society of New York and a founder of Health Care for All New York, a coalition of 100 groups working for more affordable medical care, called such concerns ''patronizing'' and noted that her coalition had hired its own actuaries.
''The only way the public will find out whether these outlandish price hikes are justified is if we can see the underpinnings,'' she said. ''They would like to have us ignorant. What they are saying to us, by opposing the disclosure of why they think their rate increases are justified, is that they want to keep us uninformed consumers.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about some health insurers' opposition to New York State's decision to release justifications of their proposed increases misidentified, in some editions, the month in which insurers were notified of that decision. It was in late September, not on Oct. 3.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benjamin M. Lawsky oversees insurance in New York State. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INJUNCTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: AETNA INC (85%)

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



527 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Necessity Dictates Fewer Games, But Sanity Makes a Case, Too

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Six to eight games have already been trimmed from each N.B.A. team's schedule because of the lockout.
Would a few more cancellations be such a tragedy?
Nearly every sports season is a physical and emotional grind -- a marathon for players and fans.
The 30 N.B.A. teams each play 82 games from mid-fall through early spring -- and 16 of them make the playoffs, leaching some significance out of the regular season. Why not play fewer games? 
A lockout shouldn't be the only reason to reduce a bloated schedule. Sanity might be.
''Seventy would be great,'' said Jeff Van Gundy, the ESPN/ABC analyst who coached the Knicks during the 1998-99 season, which was shrunk to 50 games by a lockout. ''But only if you stretched them out over the same amount of time as the 82-game season. That would eliminate almost every back-to-back situation.''
Bill Simmons, the editor in chief of Grantland.com, an ESPN site, said 75 games would be ideal.
''That's what the players say is the best length because of the wear and tear on their bodies,'' Simmons said Tuesday in a telephone interview. ''To get rid of those seven games would have a huge effect on the quality of play. You'd get rid of the 'schedule loss,' where, say, the Suns come into New York for their fourth game in five nights; they lose and they don't care. They toss it off as a schedule loss.''
Shortening the season would certainly have an effect on N.B.A. economics. Arenas accustomed to booking 41 games a year would be hurt. Commissioner David Stern might have to take a prorated pay cut. And the local and national television networks would clamor to pay less -- unless they could be persuaded that the quality of play was better than the quantity of broadcasts. Ah, maybe not.
But if fewer games kept players a bit healthier and the games more compelling, why not try it? Some baseball fans long for the 154-game seasons that were standard before expansion.
After the previous lockout was lifted in early 1999, teams played 50 games in about 13 weeks. The Knicks had traded Charles Oakley for Marcus Camby the previous June and acquired Latrell Sprewell once the abbreviated training camp opened.
''We were together for maybe 12 days,'' Van Gundy said. ''Patrick Ewing was coming off his heavy involvement as president of the players association, which wasn't conducive to being in top shape. And then Sprewell got hurt in the second game. We were in a state of flux.''
The Knicks also played three games in a row twice and had ''minuscule'' practice time, Van Gundy said.
''We were a good team but we weren't good until the last month of the season,'' he said. ''We could have easily missed the playoffs.''
The 27-23 Knicks went to the finals but lost in five games to San Antonio.
Simmons said: ''I was living in Boston during the last lockout and went to most of those games and they were some of the worst sporting events I've ever been to. The players weren't in shape. They had this attitude that they would play themselves into shape, and you got to watch them waddle around.''
As for players in shape, David Thorpe, a basketball trainer at the Pro Training Center who has an extensive N.B.A. client list, said that a significantly shorter schedule would not necessarily be beneficial.
If players participated in fewer games in the same period as the 82-game schedule, their skills might actually slide -- not that players with minor hurts wouldn't welcome time off rather than play that seventh game in nine days.
''If you jump more, you jump better,'' Thorpe said. ''If you shoot more, you shoot better. One reason why we see a really high level of play in May and June, when you'd think the superstars would be the most tired, is that they're in amazing shape and challenge themselves all the time.''
Thorpe said that he had been sending players workout plans that keep them physically challenged.
''Playing fewer games would really be a culture change,'' he said. ''If you want them to produce when the games count the most, then you'd better be putting in practice times on days when you aren't playing.''
And if players are basically attuned to a long N.B.A. season, so are most coaches. Van Gundy said that his brother, Stan, the coach of the Orlando Magic, was not happy without his team.
''Sometimes, when you're dealing with losses and fatigue over 82 games, you wish you had times off,'' he said. ''But when you get time off like this, all you wish for is 'Let me do what I know how to do.' Your body clock develops this time frame: it's time to coach. That's how he feels.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Sports Business column in some editions on Wednesday, about the possible merits of a shorter N.B.A. season, misidentified the employer of the basketball trainer David Thorpe. He works at the Pro Training Center, not for IMG Academies.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Long Grind: The current N.B.A. schedule of 82 games went into effect 44 years ago, for the 1967-68 season. At the time, there were only 12 teams
 now there are 30. (Source: N.B.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); SPORTS FANS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); BASEBALL (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); PHOENIX SUNS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



528 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Museum Welcomes Dispute Over Work

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN; Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Rome.

 BODY:
For many museums, the prospect of a United States attorney swooping in to seize a painting on loan from a foreign institution on suspicions that it had been looted by the Nazis would be a potential public relations and diplomatic nightmare.
For the Mary Brogan Museum of Art and Science in Tallahassee, Fla., it has been a fund-raising opportunity.
The museum was in the middle of a do-or-die campaign to raise $500,000 in July when Pamela Marsh, the United States attorney for the Northern District of Florida, ordered the Brogan to hold onto a 16th-century painting on loan from an Italian gallery because it might have been stolen from a Jewish family during World War II.
Recognizing a chance to raise its profile and attract donors, the Florida museum trumpeted the news on its Web site with the headline ''The Brogan Museum at the Center of International Intrigue.'' 
The rest of the works from a 50-piece exhibition of Baroque painting in Lombardy went back in September to the museum that lent them, the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan, while the work in dispute, Girolamo Romano's ''Christ Carrying the Cross Dragged by a Rogue,'' from 1538, remains on the Brogan's third floor until its ownership is settled.
''The Barbie's Dream World for me would have been that the case unfolded while I had the whole exhibition on the third floor,'' said Chucha Barber, the Brogan's chief executive. Still, she said she hoped the flush of publicity might attract desperately needed donors.
''I only have to strike a chord in one person,'' she said.
Italian officials in Rome are now negotiating with the family of Giuseppe Gentili, which says the collaborationist Vichy government in France seized the painting and sold it at auction in 1941. The Baroque exhibition, which closed last month, was the first time the Milan gallery, which is run by the Italian government, had agreed to lend an entire collection to an American institution.
Ms. Barber said she was told not to return the painting until the dispute was resolved. A spokeswoman for Ms. Marsh said the United States Attorney's Office could not comment on an investigation.
''There were three possibilities,'' Ms. Barber explained. The United States attorney could have taken custody of the painting and put it in storage; the United States customs service could have seized it as stolen property; or the Brogan itself could have renegotiated its contract with the Pinacoteca to continue to display the painting, which is ultimately what occurred.
Actually, there was a fourth possibility of which the Brogan officials were unaware: asking the State Department to declare the museum immune from any seizure order. The existence of this escape hatch has served to defuse fears among American museum curators that works they have borrowed could be seized, legal experts say.
Given how unusual this sort of situation is, the museum's ignorance of this option is understandable, said Jennifer Anglim Kreder, co-chairwoman of the American Society of International Law's Interest Group on Cultural Heritage and the Arts. She said she was aware of only one other instance in which a United States attorney tried to seize an artwork involved in a Holocaust-related dispute that was on loan to an American museum.
In that episode, the United States attorney in New York seized ''A Portrait of Wally,'' by Egon Schiele, which had been lent to the Museum of Modern Art by an Austrian museum. The case was finally settled in 2010 after more than a decade of legal wrangling, with the Austrian institution, the Leopold Museum in Vienna, keeping the painting and agreeing to pay the original owner's family $19 million.
''I was a very naive museum director,'' Ms. Barber acknowledged. ''But our naivete probably worked to our advantage in that the painting is still here and that people will come see it. And it certainly worked to the family's advantage.''
Nearly 23,000 visitors made their way through the Brogan for the Baroque exhibition during its run. Ms. Barber said that even before the recession, the museum had been in financial difficulty. ''We've just cut and cut and cut,'' she said, noting that without additional donations, the museum is in danger of closing.
The Romano painting, which opened both the show and the accompanying catalog, was insured for about $2.3 million, Ms. Barber said.
The dispute has chilled the Brogan's relations with the Pinacoteca. ''They're only mad at us because we talked to the press,'' Ms. Barber said. ''The reality is that they would have preferred that we never say anything to anybody.''
In an e-mail, Sandrina Bandera, the director of the Pinacoteca, declined to comment, referring questions to the Italian Culture Ministry.
A spokesman for the ministry said only that officials there and at the Italian Attorney General's Office were in contact with officials in Florida and with the American Embassy in Rome ''to determine a solution that will be mutually satisfactory to both sides.'' The Pinacoteca acquired the painting in 1998.
Ms. Barber said that after hearing from the United States attorney, she spoke with Lionel Salem, who lives in London and is one of Giuseppe Gentili's grandchildren. He has doggedly tried to recover the family's property since Mr. Gentili died and his children fled Paris to escape the Nazis. After extended legal battles, Mr. Salem has managed to reclaim five paintings from the Louvre, as well as money that Mr. Gentili deposited in a Swiss bank during the war.
Ms. Barber said that Mr. Salem had told her that he had contacted the Pinacoteca about ''Christ Carrying the Cross'' roughly 10 years ago, but never received a reply.
Mr. Salem said he was declining press interviews during the negotiations.
Ms. Barber noted that the Italian government had used legal tactics and public pressure to get American institutions like the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles to return stolen antiquities, adding, ''It's kind of interesting how the Karmic wheel turns.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a painting on loan to the Mary Brogan Museum of Art and Science in Tallahassee, Fla., that a federal prosecutor says might have been stolen from a Jewish family during World War II referred incompletely to a way museums may protect works on loan to them from being impounded by federal officials in ownership disputes. While American museums that receive such loans from abroad can indeed apply to the State Department for immunity from seizure before the objects enter the United States, the museums cannot be granted such immunity once an object has entered the country.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chucha Barber of the Brogan Museum with Girolamo Romano's ''Christ Carrying the Cross Dragged by a Rogue.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE CANNON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); RELIGION (69%); WEB SITES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); ROME, ITALY (71%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%); ITALY (72%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011



529 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Gets Its Motor Running

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
It's hard not to root for Detroit. The city, that is. It has been dealt a pretty brutal hand by recent history, enduring the crippling combination of economic freefall, Canadian winters and Matt Millen. And no matter what you think of the place, gosh, nobody deserves Matt Millen.
All of this made Monday such a fascinating day in sports: the Lions played in their first ''Monday Night Football'' game in 27 years, spawning a raucous party at Ford Field few could have imagined in those dark Millen days, and the Tigers battled in an epic American League Championship Series game in Texas. Sure, the Tigers ended up clobbered by a walk-off, extra-inning grand slam, but this is Detroit. They're not worried about taking the bad with the good. They're worried about any good at all. 
Believe it or not, it's the Lions coming through. This still takes some getting used to. That they are 5-0 after Monday night's 24-13 victory over the Bears still causes cases of whiplash when you scroll through the scores. Which is why the game was such a civic event, complete with a thundering stadium and celebrity fans, writes Mitch Albom in The Detroit Free Press. It was the stars on the field who produced the victory, writes Bob Wojnowski in The Detroit News, and even though the franchise's 0-16 season seems as if it happened about five minutes ago, the Lions suddenly have a lot of them, writes Kevin Seifert on ESPN.com.
Sure, the celebration did go a bit over the top for a regular-season game, as Rick Telander chooses to point out in The Chicago Sun-Times, but that's sour grapes. As Dan Wetzel writes on Yahoo.com, this festival was a long time coming. Sure, Chicago has the Cubs, but Detroit had Millen writing his ''How to Destroy an N.F.L. Franchise'' best seller for seven years.
(O.K., for those of you having trouble mustering good feelings for Detroit, yes, they do have the enduringly successful and entertaining Red Wings, but they also have the comically dysfunctional current crop of Pistons, which cancel each other out.)
We are going to inch out on a limb here and guess that many more of you were watching that Lions victory than witnessed the Rangers' 11-inning A.L.C.S. victory over the Tigers -- because last week even an unwatchable N.F.L. game between the Colts and the Bucs clobbered the Yankees/Tigers game in the ratings on Monday night -- which is too bad because the baseball game was a classic, writes Jim Caple on ESPN.com. Nelson Cruz ended it with a blast on the 355th pitch of the game, as Tim Brown describes on Yahoo.com, but there were a long list of heroes who should share credit with Cruz, Ken Rosenthal writes on Foxsports.com. At the top of that list should be the occupants of the Rangers bullpen, says Danny Knobler on CBSSports.com, because, as Tom Verducci explains on SI.com, the Rangers are having to find a way to work around their faltering starting pitching. Colby Lewis could change all that in Tuesday night's Game 3, writes Randy Galloway in The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, because he has been Texas' closest thing to an ace this postseason.
The National League Championship Series offered less of a classic, with Albert Pujols staging a personal highlight show in the Cardinals' 12-3 victory, writes Jayson Stark on ESPN.com. It was perhaps a really bad idea for the Brewers' Nyjer Morgan to take comedic aim at Pujols, writes Jeff Passan on Yahoo.com, although this does not explain why Pujols wasn't so angry in Game 1. But, as Bernie Miklasz writes in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, it's hard to quibble with Pujols after a game like that.
It's good to know that with all this fun going on, the N.B.A. isn't going to mess things up by starting its regular season any time soon. The league made this official Monday when labor negotiating talks failed to reach an agreement and canceled the first two weeks of the season. Ian Thomsen of SI.com explains why things are unlikely to be resolved until January. By then, N.B.A. fans will understand how much they are being played for suckers, writes J. A. Adande on ESPN.com, and people might be as angry as Jeff MacGregor, whose ESPN.com column uses the words idiots, morons and impossibly stupid to describe N.B.A. owners. Mike Vaccaro of The New York Post shares that level of anger but fears that much of the sports landscape does not, which is what makes this lockout very unwise.
In Detroit, the fans might be happiest of all to have the N.B.A. go away for a while. It gives them that much more energy with which to celebrate the Lions. And who can blame them?
Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (71%); SPORTS FANS (71%); CELEBRITIES (65%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (57%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (83%); DETROIT LIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



530 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Messages of the Wall St. Demonstration

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Milquetoast Radicals'' (column, Oct. 11), David Brooks suggests that by focusing on the 1 percent of wealthiest Americans, Occupy Wall Street fails to credibly address our key challenges. In doing so, he ignores a central thesis of the demonstrators: Our political system is neither responsive to the middle class nor capable of rational action because it serves -- almost exclusively -- the interests of those who finance political campaigns.
This influence, by the so-called 1 percent, is not only unjust, but also distorts our free market and rewards those with access to power rather than those who create jobs and wealth. The near collapse of our banking system is only the most visible example of how such influence threatens our economic security and our democracy. 
Occupy Wall Street's first purpose, then, must be to ensure that our government can hear our voices and promote our interests. That would be sufficiently radical.
MICHAEL FARZAN Brookline, Mass., Oct. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks's get-off-my-lawn dismissal of Occupy Wall Street misses the point. Wall Street tycoons made a civilization-jeopardizing mess requiring extensive government bailouts and were never brought to justice. Incredibly, most did not miss a bonus payment, while millions of middle-class folks face stagnating wages at best and unemployment at worst.
This travesty follows decades of ill-conceived policies and court decisions concentrating wealth and power in the hands of the few at the expense of the many. If Mr. Brooks cannot hear these sentiments from Occupy Wall Street, he's not listening.
BRUCE TORFF Locust Valley, N.Y., Oct. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
In the angry worldview of the Occupy Wall Street protesters, there are no gray areas, no such thing as multiple causes for difficult conditions or any possibility that actions may be well intended and then fail. It is the uncomplicated view of a child. There is one category of bad guy and everything is his fault.
Donors to their cause should send them a selection of the excellent books written on the subject of the 2008 collapse so they can read up on the perfect storm that left us where we find ourselves today.
Policy makers, legislators, civil servants, bankers, consumers -- all these groups shared responsibility for how things have turned out. The vast majority were going about their business and intended no harm.
But that story won't keep the anger alive, and the message doesn't fit on a sign. The truth rarely does.
MARGARET McGIRR Greenwich, Conn., Oct. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
I think that David Brooks misunderstands the message being sent by the Occupy Wall Street protesters. It is not that the top 1 percent are villainous while the bottom 99 percent are virtuous. Rather, their message is that the system that creates and sustains our extraordinary degree of income inequality is damaging to the country as a whole and must be dramatically reformed.
DANIEL HERMAN Katonah, N.Y., Oct. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''Confronting the Malefactors'' (column, Oct. 7):
Paul Krugman says of Occupy Wall Street, ''A better critique of the protests is the absence of specific policy demands.'' Though initially the absence of specific demands caused many to write off this movement, the vagueness of their goals has actually helped the protesters.
Occupy Wall Street has absorbed the causes of hippies, unions and frustrated Americans alike. The bigger the tent, the greater the number of people who can fit underneath.
KATHLEEN SULLIVAN Ossining, N.Y., Oct. 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



531 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: In Heated Hearing, Council Grills Chancellor Over School Layoffs

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott on Tuesday faced the harshest criticism in the six months since he took the job, as he was chastised at a City Council hearing over his leadership and choices ahead of the layoffs of 672 school support workers last week.
Stoked by claims from the Bloomberg administration that they knew about the layoffs but did nothing to stop them, Council members went on the attack, directing their anger at Mr. Walcott, who sat through three hours of grilling that at times devolved into shouting matches. 
At the heart of the debate was whether the layoffs were needed, how much money the city really saved by letting its lowest-paid employees go, and who would pick up the slack in the roughly 350 schools that lost at least one of their aides.
Councilman Daniel Dromm of Queens said to Mr. Walcott, ''I always feel where there's a will, there's a way, and if you really wanted to avoid these layoffs, you could.''
Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn told him, ''There were alternatives.''
Councilman Robert Jackson of Manhattan, raising his voice and wagging his finger, said, ''These layoffs are just the latest in a long-lasting series of damaging cuts to schools.''
Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. of Brooklyn, the first to ask questions, set the hearing's confrontational tone, shouting over Mr. Walcott at times to get his point across or to rebut his arguments.
During one of the most heated exchanges, Mr. Recchia said, ''How much is all the unemployment going to cost?''
Mr. Walcott turned to Veronica Conforme, the Department of Education's chief financial officer, who replied, ''Seven million dollars.''
''If they go on food stamps,'' Mr. Recchia went on, ''how much will that go up?''
''I don't have that number,'' Ms. Conforme told him.
''We have that number,'' Mr. Recchia fired back. ''That will go up to $11 million.''
Mr. Walcott said the layoffs were in the city budget that the Council approved on June 28. Mr. Recchia maintained that despite the 1,000 layoffs that were part of the agreement, there was never any hint that most of them would come from the schools.
''Had you told us school aides were in danger,'' he said, ''we would have done something about it.''
Mr. Recchia and his colleagues agreed that the money the schools will save from the layoffs -- $28.2 million -- will be negligible once the city takes into account its share of the costs of benefits that the workers are likely to apply for. They also questioned how teachers would be able to juggle additional duties, like monitoring students in the cafeteria, a task school aides often perform.
The aides, who make $14 an hour, made up most of the laid-off workers -- 410. The others included 66 parent coordinators, who serve as a link between parents and a school's administration, and 82 family workers, whose role includes making sure that homeless students show up for class. They make $20,000 and $35,000 a year, respectively.
Most of the laid-off workers are black or Latino women, and many of them are single mothers.
''This has a racial impact that should not be ignored,'' Ms. James said.
Mr. Walcott said he did not take it lightly, but added, ''I'm not in a popularity contest.'' He said he took the chancellor's job to improve children's education, ''and in that context, there are some decisions people are not going to be happy with.''
Mr. Walcott said the union representing the workers, District Council 37, had had its chance to help stop the layoffs. Deputy Chancellor David A. Weiner, who testified alongside Mr. Walcott on Tuesday, said he had had a meeting with the union's leaders in June and warned them of the cuts, though the union said the meeting had instead been about changes to the start of the school year.
At the time, the city was trying to get permission from District Council 37 and other unions to tap into a health care fund they managed to help balance the city's budget and, in turn, avert the layoffs of thousands of teachers. District Council 37 did not sign on to the proposal, and the teachers' union went on to make its own agreement with City Hall, protecting its members.
The reductions in staff have had a disproportionate impact on struggling schools and poor students. Mr. Weiner said some of the schools in poor neighborhoods had more aides than schools in other parts of the city, though he conceded that it might be because they had more needs.
''I'm putting you on notice,'' Mr. Recchia told Mr. Walcott and his deputies as their testimony wound down. ''What's happening here is not right, that these people, in these tough economic times, are being laid off. That's not right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Schools Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott insisted that the City Council approved a budget in June that called for the school layoffs.
 Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. of Brooklyn said there was never any hint that the layoffs would come from the schools. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CITIES (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



532 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Facing Cuts, a City Repeals Its Domestic Violence Law

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
TOPEKA, Kan. -- The startling vote came up at a City Council meeting here on Tuesday, provoked by a run-of-the-mill budget dispute over services that had spun out of control: decriminalize domestic violence.
Three arms of government, all ostensibly representing the same people, have been at an impasse over who should be responsible for -- and pay for -- prosecuting people accused of misdemeanor cases of domestic violence. 
City leaders had blamed the Shawnee County district attorney for handing off such cases to the city without warning. The district attorney, in turn, said he was forced to not prosecute any misdemeanors and to focus on felonies because the County Commission cut his budget. And county leaders accused the district attorney of using abused women as pawns to negotiate more money for his office.
After both sides dug in, the dispute came to a head Tuesday night.
By a vote of 7 to 3, the City Council repealed the local law that makes domestic violence a crime.
The move, the councilors were told, would force District Attorney Chad Taylor to prosecute the cases because they would remain a crime under state law, a conclusion with which he grudgingly agreed. The Council also approved negotiations to resolve the impasse.
Several victims of domestic violence spoke against the proposal at the meeting, questioning whether it would succeed in forcing the district attorney to resume prosecutions. ''It is your responsibility to protect these people, and you're failing,'' said Matthew Agnew, 24, one such victim.
Eighteen people have been arrested on domestic violence charges since September and released without charges because no agency is accepting new cases. That has raised concerns among advocates for victims of domestic violence, some of whom gathered Tuesday outside government buildings to express outrage over the gamesmanship.
''To have public officials pointing fingers while victims of domestic violence are trying to figure out who will protect them is just stunning,'' said Joyce Grover, executive director of the Kansas Coalition Against Sexual and Domestic Violence.
Though Kansas and its capital city have fared better than much of the country in this struggling economy, they are not immune to fiscal strains. The district attorney's budget of $3.5 million was cut by 10 percent, which would force about a dozen layoffs. Meanwhile the office is dealing with what Mr. Taylor describes as a ''recent uptick in violent crime,'' which he attributed to increased gang activity.
''At the end of the day, I feel like my office and public safety are a priority,'' Mr. Taylor said.
But the decision by Mr. Taylor to respond to the budget cut by immediately refusing to prosecute misdemeanors in Topeka -- though the cuts do not go into effect until next year -- caught people off guard, especially given that he had written that the city ''does not have the staff or infrastructure to provide victims of domestic violence with the level of service they have come to expect.''
But Mr. Taylor said the county ''forced my hand.''
Shelly Buhler, chairwoman of the Shawnee County Commission, said she did not expect Mr. Taylor to actually go through with his threat to stop prosecuting domestic violence.
She said that all departments were asked to propose 10 percent cuts and that he asked for an increase. ''We had hoped that he would not put that group of victims at risk, that he would find some other way to absorb the cuts,'' she said.
Scott Burns, executive director of the National District Attorneys Association, said that around the country, prosecutors are being forced to prioritize certain types of cases, but that these decisions are rarely discussed in public.
''Usually no one comes out and says that starting today I'm not going to prosecute that crime, which sends a message of failure and tells the community you're free to commit that crime,'' he said.
The city, which had already completed its budget, would have to spend $1 million more to pay for the additional prosecutions, said Dan Stanley, the interim city manager. ''Its wholly inappropriate for him to lay it at the lap of the county,'' he said.
Under the current arrangement, the district attorney is still responsible for prosecuting misdemeanors in the rest of the county as well as all felony domestic violence cases. Almost half of the misdemeanors that were prosecuted last year -- 423 cases -- are domestic battery cases, and most of the rest are shoplifting, drugs and assault.
Some critics pointed out that even as local governments are cutting deeper into important services, Gov. Sam Brownback, a Republican, is preparing a sweeping tax cut plan.
Becky Dickinson, a program director with the Y.W.C.A., which is the primary provider of services for victims of domestic violence in the county, said there was concern that the lack of charges for those being arrested for misdemeanor domestic violence -- which could include verbal threats, pushing or slapping -- would encourage retaliation.
''Our biggest concern is the safety of the victims,'' she said. ''We need to get this resolved as soon as possible.''
Even those who agreed that the district attorney's office was better positioned to handle such cases worried about the symbolism of a city that decided to decriminalize domestic violence, if only symbolically, rather than prosecuting the offenders.
Michelle Moorman, 21, a college student at the nearby University of Kansas who showed up to protest the cuts with her roommates, said she was surprised and embarrassed by the standoff.
''Budget cuts are totally understandable, especially today,'' she said. ''What's upsetting is this game of chicken between the city and the county.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LAWYERS (91%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); FELONIES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); GANGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOPEKA, KS, USA (92%) KANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



533 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Unconventional Financing Helps Deal for Brooklyn Space

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
The gray, warehouselike structure that occupies a full block front at 470 Vanderbilt Avenue in Brooklyn is a hulking presence in a neighborhood that is changing through gentrification and about to be transformed by the glossy Atlantic Yards development.
Mostly vacant for the better part of a decade, the 650,000-square-foot building has been a tire factory, a trade school and even hosted antiaircraft guns on its roof to protect the Brooklyn waterfront in World War II. Most recently, it warehoused data servers during the dot-com boom.
But late last month, the New York CityHuman Resources Administration signed a 20-year, 400,000- square-foot lease for six floors of the 10-story building -- the largest deal in Brooklyn this year and the culmination of more than two years of negotiations. Along with a second, smaller deal, 470 Vanderbilt is now 85 percent leased. In conjunction with a residential tower that the developers hope to build on an adjacent parking lot, it could speed the transformation of the area, which lies between Fort Greene and Clinton Hill. 
''The building is huge, an entire city block, and it has basically sat vacant and derelict for years,'' said Steven Hurwitz, the vice president of acquisitions and developments at GFI Development, which acquired the ground lease in 2007 for $45 million from the estate of Sol Goldman. ''This is a major turnaround for the building and the surrounding neighborhood.''
With some 1,800 full-time employees and 1,500 daily visitors, the Human Resources Administration ''will mean more patrons for our businesses and an increase in foot traffic for the neighborhoods,'' said Phillip Kellogg, the manager of the Fulton Area Business Alliance.
The H.R.A., which provides support to New Yorkers with social service and economic needs, is consolidating from three locations, shrinking its overall occupancy by 95,000 square feet. It will be vacating 271,000 square feet at 330 West 34th Street, 37,000 square feet at 2 Washington Street in Manhattan and 187,000 square feet at 210 Livingston Street in Brooklyn. Peter B. Hennessy, president of the New York tri-state region for Cassidy Turley, represented the Human Resources Administration in the deal and Gary Kamenetsky, a first vice president at CB Richard Ellis, represented GFI.
Construction at 470 Vanderbilt Avenue is expected to start by the end of the year with a move-in date of next winter.
The new lease will save the agency $7 million a year in rent. The deal ''is an excellent example of the city's ongoing, proactive space-efficiency efforts,'' said Edna Wells Handy, the commissioner of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which negotiated the lease on behalf of the Human Resources Administration.
Other tenants include the League Education and Treatment Center, which recently signed a lease for more than 77,000 square feet at the site and is relocating from a smaller space in Dumbo, and the New York City Housing Authority, which moved into 62,000 square feet in 2009.
Still vacant is 70,000 square feet on the building's upper floors. Unlike the base of the building, which has 75,000-square-foot floor plates, these floors are 20,000 square feet each. ''We are already starting to get a lot of interest from smaller users that can feed off of the foot traffic from the H.R.A. and N.Y.C.H.A.,'' said Mr. Hurwitz, who said the asking rent was $32 a square foot.
There is also 15,000 square feet of retail space on the ground floor, adjacent to the H.R.A. offices. With some 3,300 people coming in and out of the agency's offices daily, as well as the 700 or 800 that work and visit the administration, ''there will be close to 5,000 people in the building who will need to eat, so something like a cafeteria would make sense,'' Mr. Hurwitz said.
Now that the office space is almost fully leased, GFI is turning its focus to building housing on the site. A uniform land use review procedure last year allows GFI to construct a 350-unit rental building next to the office space. It is looking for financing to start construction on the building, which would set aside 24 percent of the apartments for affordable housing and also include a two-level underground garage for 320 cars.
In the deal with the Human Resources Administration, the developer struggled over how to finance some $60 million that was needed to transform the space, which is now raw, into a usable office, including furniture, carpeting and lighting.
''Very often, tenant improvements are the last piece of the puzzle,'' said Richard L. Podos, the chief executive of Lance LLC, which advised GFI on the transaction, ''and they can be a stumbling block to getting a large deal done.'' Landlords, and the lenders who finance them, prefer not to bear the costs of building out office interiors because they do not increase the overall value of the property. Tenants, meanwhile, do not want to pay to improve office space they do not own. Typically, landlords will allocate some money for improvements and tenants pay the remainder.
In this case, the city wanted GFI to pay all of the upfront costs and to reimburse the developer when it occupied the space. GFI, however, did not have access to sufficient funds. ''The city likes the landlord to pay the whole thing, and then when the work is done and they are ready to occupy the space, the city will write a check,'' said Mr. Hurwitz. ''The amount was significant, however, and we needed a financing tool to bridge the gap.''
To close the deal, GFI joined with Lance Capital and the CGA Capital Corporation to create a trust company that issued a bond. In a twist, the $44 million bond issuance was secured not by the building but by a part of the rent that the H.R.A. will pay. Since the bonds are not backed by any physical assets, should the city stop paying its rent, the only recourse bondholders would have is to sue the city for payment. Still, bondholders are betting that the city, with a double-A rating, is unlikely to go bankrupt or stop its payments.
The bonds, which were privately placed with investors and fully amortize over seven years, came with a rate of under 5 percent, well below the 8 to 12 percent that banks would normally charge borrowers for this type of expenditure, Mr. Podos said. ''Because we figured out how to use the creditworthiness of the city,'' he said, ''we were able to finance it really cheaply for the landlord.''
The city was not involved in the bond financing, and is connected only insofar as it is a tenant whose rent is being used as collateral. ''At the time, we understood that conventional financing was unavailable to the landlord,'' said Theresa Ward, the chief asset management officer for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, and ''the landlord presented this as a cost-effective alternative.''
In addition to issuing a bond to pay for the tenant improvements, GFI also refinanced its existing bank loan and increased the lending facility on the property to $130 million. As part of this, it brought in an additional $24 million of equity from a new partner, the Starwood Capital Group.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about a long-term lease for six floors in a long-vacant building at 470 Vanderbilt Avenue in Brooklyn misidentified the new lease holder. It is the New York City Human Resources Administration, not the New York Housing Authority. (The housing authority earlier leased a smaller space in the building.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York's Human Resources Administration has leased six floors of the building at 470 Vanderbilt Avenue in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); DATA WAREHOUSING (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (63%); WORLD WAR II (56%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (56%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (51%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



534 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Israel's West Bank General Warns Against Radicals

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
BEIT EL, West Bank -- The Israeli general in charge of most of the West Bank has a message for members of Congress who want to end American aid to the Palestinian Authority because of its bid to join the United Nations: Don't do it.
Brig. Gen. Nitzan Alon, commander of the Judea and Samaria Division, said that such a step would lead to instability and insecurity for both Palestinians and Israelis. 
''Stability in the region includes the ability of the Palestinian Authority to pay its salaries,'' General Alon said this week in a rare on-the-record interview, reflecting a consensus among Israeli defense officials. ''Reducing the Palestinians' ability to pay decreases security. American aid is relevant to this issue.''
The position of both the White House and a number of American legislators is that the only path to Palestinian statehood is through direct talks with Israel. The Obama administration has promised to veto the recent Palestinian bid for recognition by the United Nations Security Council, but some legislators -- Republicans and Democrats -- want to go beyond that and cut off the hundreds of millions of dollars that Congress allocates annually to the Palestinian Authority.
General Alon, a former commando and intelligence officer who is scheduled to end his command after two years in his post, agreed to discuss issues that have arisen during his tenure. In a wide-ranging conversation, he brought up American aid and spoke with great concern about increasing violence by radical Israeli settlers, which he called ''Jewish terrorism.'' ''We should do much more to stop it,'' he said.
He called for more police officers and for getting them to shift some focus from their main mission of protecting settlers to stopping radicals. The army has sent some troops in for this.
General Alon said violence was a problem in both directions. He said Palestinian rock-throwing had increased since the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, went to the United Nations last month, leading to the deaths of a settler and his infant son whose car turned over after they were pelted. In recent months, the militant settlers have burned several mosques and destroyed acres of Palestinian olive and fig trees. Last week, dozens of settlers surrounded an Israeli Army vehicle and assaulted soldiers.
On General Alon's desk sits a two-screen computer. During the interview, one showed in real time the deployment of security forces around settlements where Palestinians were picking olives. The other showed a news site of the Israeli settler movement.
Every year, the olive harvest produces increased tension because some of the trees are next to --or inside of -- Israeli settlements.
''We have taken it as a mission to make sure the harvest goes well this year,'' an Israeli colonel, speaking under normal military rules of anonymity, said by telephone. ''We're using more troops.'' The army is allowing Palestinians a much shorter time to harvest olives this year -- dropping to about two weeks from five -- and is guarding the process more closely.
The colonel said that cooperation with the Palestinian Authority was good. But some Palestinian officials said the opposite.
''The soldiers never help us,'' Ghassan Douglas, the Palestinian official who monitors Israeli settlements in the Nablus region, said in an interview. And Ghassan Khatib, a spokesman for the Palestinian Authority, charged in a statement that soldiers ''protect the settlers while they are carrying out these illegal crimes.''
There is clearly a public-relations battle under way. Most of the world shares the Palestinian position that the settlements are illegal and illegitimate, so anti-settler agitation is seen as less offensive than anti-Palestinian activity. Even within Israel, some of the more radical settlements are seen as politically costly.
A spokesman for the United Nations human rights commissioner said on Tuesday that the Israeli Army was not doing enough to protect Palestinians.
''The accountability for settler violence against Palestinians is less than adequate, let's say, and certainly not comparable to the reverse cases,'' the spokesman, Rupert Colville, said at a news conference in Geneva.
Though the relationship between the Israeli Army and the Palestinian security forces has been complicated, over the past three years, calm has largely prevailed over the West Bank. Palestinian forces mostly control about 40 percent, Israelis the rest.
But even the 40 percent, where most Palestinians live, is subject to nightly raids. General Alon said that a few years ago, Israeli troops went into the West Bank more than a dozen times a night, but that is down by half now. Fewer, he said, would require a political decision. The Palestinian Authority says the raids harm -- and sometimes kill -- their citizens and humiliate their forces.
But General Alon said the current rate of intervention was required to maintain intelligence dominance. He gave as an example the recent arrest of two men accused of throwing the rocks that caused the car crash that killed the settler and his son. The Israelis went into the village of Halhoul themselves because, he said, they were afraid to compromise certain intelligence sources and worried that the Palestinians would not make the arrests.
General Alon said that the effectiveness of the Palestinian security forces depended on how they were seen at home.
''As long as they see them as patriots working to build a Palestinian state, they will be able to keep working with us,'' he said of the Palestinian forces. ''If there is no political horizon, cooperation is endangered.''
General Alon also said that the role of Israeli forces had to be limited. ''We can't do our mission only with military tools,'' he said. ''Diplomacy and economy are very relevant.''
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his aides have said they are reluctant to withdraw from the West Bank because they say that when Israel withdrew from Gaza in 2005 Hamas took over and stepped up rocket fire against Israel. Having the same thing happen so close to Tel Aviv would be unacceptable, they say.
General Alon said that what happened in Gaza should be a lesson, ''but not cut and paste,'' meaning that a withdrawal was possible but would require thoughtful adjustments.
He pulled a book from his drawer. As a goodbye present, General Alon said, he was giving his staff a Hebrew translation of ''Why Don't We Learn from History?'' by B. H. Liddle-Hart. It argues, among other things, that ''truth is a spiral staircase. What looks true on one level may not be true on the next higher level.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Israeli settlers in the West Bank, left, tried on Tuesday to block Palestinians from entering a settlement to harvest olives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); TERRORISM (64%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (64%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (64%); RELIGION (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



535 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: In This Case, A Protest With Focus

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com; Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

 BODY:
''The buses?'' said Javier Valdes. ''I have 20, in total.''
He checked a list, then corrected himself.
''Sorry,'' he said. ''Twenty-one.''
On Wednesday morning, those buses will pick up about 1,000 people from Brooklyn, Staten Island and Queens and drop them at Cadman Plaza for a march across the Brooklyn Bridge. About half of the marchers are expected to come from two high schools. 
Outside City Hall Park, there will be a few speeches. After the demonstration, the students will fan out and visit the offices of City Council members.
They have two purposes.
The first is to protest New York City's practice of having the police stop and frisk hundreds of thousands of young people, mostly African-Americans and Latinos, an overwhelming majority of whom are charged with nothing.
The second is to do something about it.
Mr. Valdes is deputy director of Make the Road New York, an advocacy group for immigrants and low-income people. In a season of demonstrations that are like great bonfires, his group uses torches. That is intentional, said Oona Chatterjee, an executive director of the group.
''The dialogue opened on Wall Street is incredible, but there isn't anything theoretical about this struggle,'' Ms. Chatterjee said. ''We focus on trying to develop concrete solutions to problems, and figuring out who in government will be our partners to help us solve it.''
Unlike the Occupy Wall Street approach, the tactics of Make the Road do not necessarily hold the promise of opening a global conversation about a tilted economy in which most wealth slides into the hands of a few.
Yet however short on dazzle and razzle Make the Road may be, it has clear, decisive wins that can be counted. Last year, members of the group lobbied the city to stop cooperating with federal authorities in the deportation of people arrested but not subsequently prosecuted. About 1,000 people walked to City Hall and met with council members.
The chain of march, protest and lobbying led to a bill sponsored by the council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, that, if passed, would change the city's current practice, and an announcement last month that the Bloomberg administration would support it.
Another campaign -- to get the developer of the Queens Center Mall, which received subsidies from the state and city governments, to require that living wages be paid to retail workers -- has not made any gains. ''It would have been better if we had arranged this before the mall obtained all these tax breaks,'' Mr. Valdes said.
At meetings over the summer and in September, the group discussed what it would take on this autumn. One possibility was enforcement of rent laws. But the stop-and-frisk practices of the New York Police Department ''had intergenerational traction,'' Mr. Valdes said.
The Police Department has maintained that officers legally question and frisk people when they suspect wrongdoing or have concern for safety, although some legal authorities say the department is misapplying United States Supreme Court decisions. Legal or not, it has become an unwelcome ritual of adolescent passage in the city's low-income neighborhoods.
TWO organizers, Jesus Gonzalez and Jose Lopez, met with students at the Bushwick School for Social Justice in Brooklyn and the Pan American International High School in Elmhurst, Queens.
''We have gone to three entire grades at two different schools,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''I can't recall one classroom where I asked people if they had been stopped and frisked without at least half of the class raising their hands.''
Among those who plan to attend the rally on Wednesday is Romale Galbreith Johnson, 20, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. He said he had been frisked about 20 times since the age of 15, most recently while he was standing against a wall on the platform of the Bedford Avenue stop of the L train. A plainclothes officer inspected his MetroCard -- he was using a student card, as he was attending summer school -- and then began to pat him down.
''I was asking him why he was stopping and frisking,'' Mr. Galbreith Johnson said. ''He said, 'If you want to be smart, we can take y'all in.' ''
A few days ago, Mr. Galbreith Johnson said, he attended an Occupy Wall Street rally with some friends. ''I'm trying to remember one of the signs -- it was banks and Wall Street,'' he said. ''Robbing the community, I guess.''
He has been frisked so often, Mr. Galbreith Johnson said, that he had not realized there were laws limiting it until he went to a meeting at Make the Road.
''I said, 'Oh, so that's what it is?' '' he said.
So he is quite clear about why he will demonstrate on Wednesday:
''People abusing the law.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The About New York column on Wednesday, about protests of the New York Police Department's stop-and-frisk policy, misstated the surname of a deputy director of Make the Road New York, an advocacy group for immigrants and low-income people that was leading in the effort, and misspelled the given name of an executive director of the group The deputy is Javier Valdes, not Vasquez, and the other executive is Oona Chatterjee, not Una.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LOBBYING (86%); POOR POPULATION (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); LIVING WAGE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); DEPORTATION (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



536 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar Frees Prominent Dissident; More Political Prisoners Expected to Follow

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- Myanmar freed a prominent dissident on Wednesday at the start of what state media said would be the release of 6,300 prisoners in a general amnesty that was expected to include a number of political prisoners. 
The first dissident known to have been freed was a popular comedian known as Zarganar, who was imprisoned in 2008 for criticizing the government, according to reports from Myanmar.
The releases of political prisoners had been signaled by an open letter from the country's new human rights body, which called on the government to free ''prisoners of conscience,'' a term that was a departure from the country's longstanding position that all prisoners are common criminals.
The release of the country's estimated 2,100 political prisoners has been a central demand of Western nations.
The announcement in the official media did not characterize the prisoners, but came amid talks over political prisoners between the government and dissidents, as well as American officials, that led the government to list about 600 it was considering releasing. In the letter, published in three state-run newspapers, the chairman of the human rights commission, U Win Mra, wrote that prisoners of conscience could be released if they did not pose ''a threat to the stability of state and public tranquillity.''
''The Myanmar National Human Rights Commission humbly requests the president, as a reflection of his magnanimity, to grant amnesty to those prisoners and release them from the prison,'' the letter said.
The developments come as Western nations have been reassessing their policies of sanctions against Myanmar, where a new parliamentary government engineered and dominated by the long-ruling junta has made a surprising number of moves toward establishing basic freedoms in its six months in power.
On Monday, an American assistant secretary of state, Kurt M. Campbell, said in a lecture in Bangkok that Washington might soon take steps to improve its relations with Myanmar in light of ''dramatic developments under way'' in the new government.
Those have included a reported statement by the director of the country's Press Scrutiny and Registration Department that censoring media is not consistent with democratic values.
The department director, U Tint Swe, was quoted by the United States-financed Radio Free Asia as saying a new media law would allow the press to be free of censors, though he did not say when such a law might be enacted.
The government also appears to have increased lines of communication with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the pro-democracy leader who was released last year from 15 years of house arrest.
At the end of last month, it suspended a hydroelectric dam project led by a state-owned Chinese company that was a showcase project for the previous military government but had drawn criticism from Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and environmental groups.
In his address in Bangkok, Mr. Campbell said, ''I think it would be fair to say that we will match their steps with comparable steps, and we are looking forward in the course of the next several weeks to continuing a dialogue that has really stepped up in recent months.''
The United States, along with other Western nations, has long held a policy of economic and political sanctions against Myanmar because of its violations of human rights and suppression of political freedom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMNESTY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HOUSE ARREST (73%); ARRESTS (69%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (64%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (60%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (50%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%) MYANMAR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



537 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Will Expedite Approval to Replace Deteriorating Tappan Zee Bridge

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
The Tappan Zee Bridge, long overdue for an overhaul, was one of 14 projects chosen on Tuesday by the Obama administration for expedited federal review and approval -- possibly allowing work on a new bridge to begin as early as the spring of 2013.
For two decades, local politicians have been trying to get the aging bridge repaired or replaced, and a number of options have been suggested. Transportation experts originally said the project could cost $9 billion to $16 billion, depending on whether the state included a bus and rail line. 
The bridge, which was built in the 1950s, has cost the state $100 million a year in repairs and $83 million in studies about how to replace or fix it, said the Westchester County executive, Robert P. Astorino. When he took a boat tour beneath the bridge with other elected officials in July, Mr. Astorino said, the paint was peeling, there was rust on its joints and spans, and netting covered up much of its underbelly.
Mr. Astorino feared that if the bridge were not repaired or replaced, it could one day simply be shut down -- forcing drivers, who make about 170,000 crossings each day, to find alternatives.
''This is a major economic artery for the entire region,'' he said.
Citing the bridge's deteriorating condition, the federal Department of Transportation decided it would let the state go forward with the project as long as it streamlined its earlier plan to make a new bridge a centerpiece of a $21 billion, 30-mile transportation corridor. The federal agency said it would help speed up the process for the state to build a $5.2 billion eight-lane bridge, to which mass transit could be added in the future.
John D. Porcari, the deputy transportation secretary, said the expedited review process would allow different government agencies to work concurrently, shaving two and a half years off the building process. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo called the fast-tracking ''a shot in the arm for the project and a major step forward to restoring this key piece of infrastructure and putting tens of thousands of New Yorkers back to work.'' The governor personally lobbied William M. Daley, the White House chief of staff.
The state will pay for the project by issuing $3 billion in bonds against its toll revenues; the remaining $2.2 billion will be financed with loans from labor pension funds and the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act.
Mr. Porcari estimated that the bridge's construction would create 33,000 ''job years.'' (A job year means one job for one year; a single job that lasts for two years is given credit for two job years.)
Mr. Porcari said he expected the state to seek its first bids for the project in August 2012 and to award a contract that year.
But it is not clear how much the construction may cost commuters. Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow for transportation with the Regional Plan Association, said issuing the bonds for $3 billion would mean an increase on the bridge's toll. The toll, now $5, could be raised by as much as $10 each year for the duration of the project, Mr. Zupan said. At the same time, commuters have no immediate alternatives.
''What they're basically saying to the driver is, 'We're going to raise your toll and by the way we're not going to improve public transit,' '' Mr. Zupan said. ''And we're not going to give you an option other than driving.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); COUNTIES (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); BONDS (61%); CONTRACT AWARDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



538 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: When the Talk Turns to Taxes and Medicine

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
A major source of contention at Tuesday night's debate was Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan, which is basically a pair of proposals: deep cuts in the existing federal taxes on individual and corporate income, both of which would be reduced to a flat rate of 9 percent from existing rates that run above 30 percent, combined with a new 9 percent national sales tax.
Mr. Cain has provided only a broad sketch of how such a plan would work, making it impossible to evaluate exactly how much money the government would raise. 
But one clear feature of the proposal is that it would shift the burden of taxation, as Bruce Bartlett, a former official in the Reagan and first Bush administrations noted in a recent article in The New York Times. By cutting income tax rates and imposing a sales tax to make up the difference, the plan would reduce taxes on higher-income families and raise taxes on lower-income families -- including many families who pay no taxes under the current system. Some of those lower-income families, who now receive payments from the government, would instead be required to pay taxes.
It is also important to note that the plan is intended as a transitional stage. Mr. Cain proposes the ultimate elimination of income taxes, in favor of a flat 30 percent sales tax.
Prostate Tests
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, condemned a proposal of a government task force to end routine tests for prostate cancer in men, saying it would cause deaths. But the panel that made the recommendation concluded the test itself has caused unnecessary deaths and injuries.
Mr. Gingrich was referring to a draft recommendation of the United States Preventive Services Task Force that concluded after five clinical trials that healthy men should no longer receive a P.S.A. blood test to screen for prostate cancer because the test does not save lives over all and often leads to treatments causing pain, impotence and incontinence for many.
The panel's decision has provoked controversy, much like its recommendation two years ago that women in their 40s did not need routine mammograms. But the panel was even more forceful in its conclusion about the prostate test, which is a lucrative business. ''Unfortunately, the evidence now shows that this test does not save men's lives,'' said Dr. Virginia Moyer, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine and chairwoman of the task force
From 1986 through 2005, one million men received surgery, radiation therapy or both who would otherwise not have been treated without a P.S.A. test, according to the task force. Among them, at least 5,000 died soon after surgery and 10,000 to 70,000 suffered serious complications. Half had persistent blood in their semen, and 200,000 to 300,000 suffered impotence, incontinence or both. As a result of these complications, the man who discovered a prostate-specific antigen, Dr. Richard J. Ablin, has called its widespread use a ''public health disaster.''
Mr. Gingrich incorrectly said the panel had no medical specialists. Recommendations of the task force can determine whether Medicare and private health plans envisioned under the health reform law pay fully for a test. But legislation already requires Medicare to pay for P.S.A. testing no matter what the task force recommends.
As for Mr. Gingrich's claim that Sarah Palin was correct a couple years ago to suggest such government-sponsored groups are ''death panels,'' the editors of PolitiFact.com, the award-winning fact-checking site of the St. Petersburg Times chose it as ''Lie of the Year'' in 2009. JACKIE CALMES
Tax Holidays
Mitt Romney said at the debate that he favored a tax holiday that would let companies bring back profits earned in foreign countries -- ''Bring a trillion three back from overseas,'' he said -- without paying regular taxes on the money. He said that such a tax holiday would help to spur economic growth.
That is big money, to be sure, and the plan is popular with corporate executives.
But a wide range of economists who have studied the idea say that such a tax holiday would do little to spur economic growth. The conservative Heritage Foundation, for example, said in a report published last week that a tax holiday on foreign profits would ''have a minuscule effect on domestic investment and thus have a minuscule effect on the U.S. economy and job creation.''
One big reason: companies are already sitting on record amounts of cash. Money is not the reason that companies are holding back. If they wanted to invest in research, or build new factories, or hire workers, they could. The problem, according to corporate executives, is a lack of demand for their products.
Another reason: A tax holiday has been tried before, in 2004, and it did not work. The Internal Revenue Service reported that 843 corporations brought back $312 billion to the United States. But a 2009 study by the published by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the corporations mostly gave the money directly to shareholders in the form of dividends. BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Oct. 7 about a government panel's recommendation that healthy men should no longer receive a P.S.A. blood test to screen for prostate cancer described incorrectly the work of Richard J. Ablin, a researcher who has called widespread use of the test a ''public health disaster.'' Dr. Ablin discovered a prostate-specific antigen; he did not develop the P.S.A. test. The error was repeated on Wednesday in an article about the Republican presidential debate on Tuesday, in which Newt Gingrich condemned the recommendation, saying it would cause deaths.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herman Cain, left, returned to a favorite subject at the debate, his 9-9-9 tax plan. Mitt Romney argued the merits of a tax holiday for businesses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PROSTATE DISEASE (91%); SALES TAX (90%); FAMILY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEN (87%); PROSTATE CANCER (86%); CANCER (86%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (86%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (86%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (69%); WOMEN (69%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (69%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (69%); INCOME TAX (68%); RADIOLOGY (64%); PEDIATRICS (62%); INCONTINENCE (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (53%); NEWT GINGRICH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



539 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: President's Jobs Measure Is Defeated in Key Test in the Senate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Pittsburgh, and Mark Landler from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a major setback for President Obama, the Senate on Tuesday blocked consideration of his $447 billion jobs bill, forcing the White House and Congressional Democrats to scramble to salvage parts of the plan, the centerpiece of Mr. Obama's push to revive a listless economy.
The legislation, announced with fanfare by the president at a joint session of Congress last month, fell short of the 60 needed to overcome procedural hurdles in the Senate.
The vote in favor of advancing the bill on Tuesday was 50 to 49. Two moderate Democrats facing difficult re-election campaigns, Senators Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Jon Tester of Montana, joined a solid phalanx of Republicans in opposition. In addition, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, switched from yes to no so that he could move to reconsider the vote in the future. 
Given Mr. Obama's repeated demands, as he traveled the nation in recent weeks, that Congress pass the bill intact, the Senate's vote to block the measure represented a significant setback and came after leaders of his own party had adjusted the measure to include a surtax on incomes of more than $1 million to round up additional Democratic votes.
After the vote, the president criticized Republicans for balking at a measure that included initiatives they supported in the past.
''Tonight's vote is by no means the end of this fight,'' the president said in a statement. He added, ''In the coming days, members of Congress will have to take a stand on whether they believe we should put teachers, construction workers, police officers and firefighters back on the job.''
Votes on pieces of the bill could begin this month, perhaps as early as next week, Senate Democratic aides said. Party leaders said they needed to consult their caucus before they decided on the timing or chose the provisions to be considered separately.
Several Democratic senators said they might join a handful of Republicans in searching for job-creation proposals that could gain bipartisan support -- a formidable challenge in a chamber where comity seems to worsen by the week.
House Republican leaders have said they do not intend to take up the president's bill as a whole. But they welcomed the signal from the White House that the administration would be open to a piecemeal effort.
The House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, said he hoped ''the president will drop his all-or-nothing approach and begin to work with us on areas of commonality,'' including initiatives that could promote hiring and economic growth.
''We are willing to take up the things we can agree on,'' Mr. Cantor said.
The president's bill is a mix of public works spending and temporary tax cuts intended to respond to what Mr. Obama calls an economic crisis and an emergency. Senate Democrats tried to make the president's bill more palatable by adding a surtax of 5.6 percent, starting in 2013, on income in excess of $1 million.
As the Senate moved toward a vote Tuesday, Mr. Reid made an accusation heard with increasing frequency from Democrats: Republicans were opposing the president's jobs bill because, for political reasons, they wanted the economy to remain in bad shape.
''Republicans think that if the economy improves, it might help President Obama,'' Mr. Reid said. ''So they root for the economy to fail and oppose every effort to improve it.''
The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, replied in kind. ''Democrats have designed this bill to fail -- they've designed their own bill to fail -- in the hope that anyone who votes against it will look bad,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''This whole exercise is a charade that's meant to give Democrats a political edge in an election that's 13 months away.''
Senate Democratic leaders said the vote Tuesday showed that a majority of the Senate -- 51 senators, including Mr. Reid -- wanted to take up the bill.
Fourteen million Americans are unemployed. The unemployment rate -- 9.1 percent for the last three months -- is higher than when Mr. Obama took office. And job-creation efforts have fallen short of White House hopes. The Labor Department says that nonfarm payroll employment totaled 131.3 million in September, compared with 132.8 million in February 2009, when Congress approved an economic stimulus bill championed by the president.
The jobs bill calls for $175 billion in new spending on highways and other public works, an extension of jobless benefits and aid to states to prevent teacher layoffs. The bill would provide $272 billion in tax relief for individuals and businesses.
One of the more popular items in the bill is a further cut in payroll taxes, intended to increase take-home pay for 160 million Americans. Congress last year reduced the Social Security payroll tax rate paid by employees to 4.2 percent, from 6.2 percent.
Under Mr. Obama's proposal, workers would pay 3.1 percent next year, just half the normal rate. The tax is applied to the first $106,800 of wages.
Republicans and some Democrats objected to tax proposals by the president that would have increased taxes for many couples making more than $250,000 a year. Democrats have rallied around the ''millionaires' tax,'' a populist proposal that they say highlights their differences with Republicans.
The roll call was held open for more than two hours at the request of Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, who flew back to Washington on Tuesday night so she could vote for the jobs bill. She had been in Boston accepting an award from a regional business organization.
Mr. Tester, explaining why he voted against the bill, called it an ''an expensive, temporary fix to a problem that needs a big, long-term solution.''
''We should not be sending billions of dollars in bailout aid to states,'' Mr. Tester said. ''And I can't support tax gimmicks that do little to create jobs.''
Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, voted to take up the jobs bill, but said that he opposed the measure itself. ''I do not believe that we should raise taxes on ordinary earned income,'' Mr. Webb said. ''The bill should be paid for by other means such as raising the capital gains rate or ending costly subsidies and tax loopholes.''
Senator Joe Manchin III, a West Virginia Democrat who had expressed reservations about the bill, also voted to begin debate and to end what he described as a Republican filibuster.
''But let there be no mistake,'' Mr. Manchin said, ''if this bill does not change, if it is not improved, if it is not more focused on job creation and more fiscally responsible, I will strongly oppose final passage.''
The White House said it was prepared to negotiate with the handful of Senate Democrats who resisted the bill, including Mr. Manchin, to discuss specific parts that might win their support.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the Senate's blocking consideration of President Obama's jobs measure misstated the Labor Department's measure of nonfarm payroll employment. It recorded 131.3 million people in September, compared with 132.8 million in February 2009; it did not report those figures in dollars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Democrats have designed this bill to fail,'' the Republican leader Mitch McConnell said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); ERIC CANTOR (57%); BEN NELSON (57%); JON TESTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



540 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; A JOBS PROPOSAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann Offers An 11-Point Plan To Aid Employers

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
It doesn't have the catchiness of Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan. It is more succinct than Mitt Romney's 59-point proposal. 
In advance of Tuesday night's Republican presidential debate on the economy, Michele Bachmann laid out an 11-point blueprint for creating jobs and restoring prosperity.
Its mix of proposals, echoing her themes from the campaign trail, call for repealing the Obama administration's health-care and financial-industry regulatory laws, cutting taxes and government spending, and declaring a tax holiday on $1.2 trillion in foreign earnings of American companies.
The proposals include some sweeping and specific promises. By ''repealing radical environmental laws,'' Mrs. Bachmann says in a statement, the country would put itself on the road to energy independence and reap $800 billion of new tax revenue and 1.4 million new jobs.
Mrs. Bachmann says that American ''job creators'' spend trillions of dollars to comply with government regulations and issues a call to action: ''This red-tape rampage must stop.''
She would overturn the Dodd-Frank Act, the effort to address the causes of the financial crisis, which she says overregulates banks and makes it harder for Americans to get credit. The real cause of the financial crisis, she argues, was ''leverage,'' and she calls for phasing out two institutions that many Republicans say were responsible for easy credit in the housing bubble, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Her tax proposals are less specific than Mr. Cain's and some others: she would chop away the inheritance tax, ''make the corporate tax code simpler and fairer'' and reduce the number of tax brackets.
Point No. 1 in her plan is to let American companies repatriate the cash they have parked abroad without taxes through Dec. 31. She says a tax holiday, which many companies are lobbying hard for, would do more than Mr. Obama's 2009 ''failed'' stimulus package to pump money into the economy, without digging into ''taxpayer wallets.''
Economists disagree on the merit of a corporate tax holiday. The Treasury Department concluded that an earlier holiday in 2005 did not create many jobs - companies used the windfall to buy back stock instead - and the conservative Heritage Foundation, in a report this month, argued that a tax holiday was no jobs bonanza.
Mrs. Bachmann enters Tuesday's debate needing to make a strong impression after a sharp drop in popularity in national polls. But the debate's focus on the economy is not her strongest suit compared with other candidates with business backgrounds or experience as governors. In a new poll by The Washington Post and Bloomberg News, sponsors of the debate, Republicans and Republican-leaning independents said that Mrs. Bachmann was the candidate who would do ''the most damage to the economy.''
In her blueprint, she concluded: ''My solutions are simple. We need to cut government spending, legalize America's God-given natural resources and stop taxing investment and productivity.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); ESTATE TAX (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); CORPORATE TAX (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (79%); HERMAN CAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



541 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Romney Looks Past Perry as Debate Focuses on Economy

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
HANOVER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney offered a robust defense of the health care plan he signed as governor of Massachusetts and sought to look beyond his Republican presidential rivals at a debate here Tuesday night by presenting himself as the leader who is best prepared to take on President Obama.
With a fresh air of confidence in his candidacy, Mr. Romney set out to diminish Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and all but ignored him, a different approach from the last three debates, where he repeatedly tangled with Mr. Perry. Given a chance to question a fellow candidate, Mr. Romney selected Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota.
In a debate that focused on the nation's economic burdens, Mr. Romney defended elements of the Wall Street bailout in late 2008 as an imperfect but necessary solution. The view is at odds with the sentiment of many conservative voters, who will help decide the party's nominee. 
''My experience tells me that we were on the precipice and we could have had a complete meltdown of our entire financial system, wiping out all the savings of the American people,'' Mr. Romney said. ''So action had to be taken.''
Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, was at the center of the discussion for the first time during the race. His candidacy has drawn attention because of his 9-9-9 economic plan, which he repeated so often that it became a memorable tag line. He embraced his plan as a simple solution to restructuring the tax system, even as rivals dismissed it as amounting to a national sales tax.
When Mr. Cain confronted Mr. Romney on the complexity of his 59-point plan, Mr. Romney embraced the criticism, declaring: ''Simple answers are always very helpful, but oftentimes inadequate.''
The candidates gathered in Spaulding Auditorium on the campus of Dartmouth College for the seventh debate of the Republican nominating contest. It was the least combative of the debates so far, with questions limited to the economy. But the tone also signaled a change in fortunes -- for now, at least -- in the Republican field.
In the days leading up to the debate, Mr. Perry aggressively challenged Mr. Romney and accused him of waffling on conservative principles. But he brought almost none of the criticism to the stage and went for long stretches without being recognized by debate moderators or trying to insert himself into the conversation.
It was unclear whether Mr. Perry's extensive practice sessions had significantly helped him prosecute the argument that he would make a stronger nominee than Mr. Romney.
Mr. Perry is set to deliver his first major policy speech of the campaign on Friday in Pittsburgh, on energy and jobs. When pressed for specifics, he said, ''I'm not going to lay it out all for you tonight.'' Asked about Mr. Romney's lengthy economic plan, he said, ''You know, Mitt's had six years to be working on a plan. I've been in this for about eight weeks.'' Asked if he might accept a budget compromise that could involve raising revenue, as President Ronald Reagan did, Mr. Perry suggested that he would not.
''One of the reasons that I think Americans are so untrustworthy of what's going on in Washington is because they never see a cut in spending,'' Mr. Perry said. ''They always hear the siren song of 'If you'll allow us to raise taxes, then we'll make these reductions over here,' when the fact of the matter is -- the issue is -- we need to have a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution.''
The candidates eagerly joined in a chorus of criticism of the Federal Reserve and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, called him a ''disastrous'' leader of the central bank, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas accused the Fed of covering up its actions as the economic crisis worsened.
Mr. Cain, who served on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City in the 1990s, said, ''I don't agree with the actions of this Federal Reserve.'' While not singling out the central bank, Mrs. Bachmann blamed the federal government for the economic crisis by encouraging banks to issue subprime loans.
The debate, which was sponsored by Bloomberg News and The Washington Post, unfolded for nearly two hours as more of a conversation. The eight candidates were seated around a large table, joined by three moderators, who asked questions before an audience of voters in New Hampshire.
For the first time since he entered the race two months ago, Mr. Perry was not at the middle of the stage. The seating arrangement was determined by the relative strength of the candidates in a collection of polls, a formula that relegated Mr. Perry to the side.
This time, Mr. Cain found himself at the center of the debate. He was seated next to Mr. Romney, who leads in the polls, and fielded the first question, about what specifically he would do to end the paralysis in Washington.
Later, when Jon M. Huntsman joked that Mr. Cain's 9-9-9 tax plan -- which calls for reducing the individual and corporate income taxes to 9 percent and introducing a 9 percent national sales tax -- sounded more like the price of pizza, Mr. Cain shot back that it ''didn't come off a pizza box, no.''
When the Republicans were given a chance to ask a rival a question, all but three directed their questions to Mr. Romney, reflecting his perceived status as a front-runner.
Mrs. Bachmann posed her question to Mr. Perry, asking why he was a Democrat at the time Mr. Reagan was elected. He replied that many people he had grown up with were Democrats. He said he'd had a conversation with Michael Reagan recently, noting: ''I came to the Republican Party sooner in age than his dad did.''
Former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania injected the theme of gas into the debate. As he took aim at Mr. Perry, he said: ''I don't want to brag, Governor, but Pennsylvania is the gas capital of the world right now, not Texas.''
Mr. Huntsman, the former governor of Utah, picked up on the gas riff and tried to deliver a joke, saying: ''Washington, D.C., is the gas capital of the country.'' The camera panned to Mr. Perry, who rolled his eyes.
But it was Mr. Romney who dominated the evening, speaking more than the other candidates as he tried to show a command of economic issues. When interrupted at one point, he declared: ''I'm still speaking, I'm still speaking, I'm still speaking.''
He said his experience in the private sector, along with his time as governor, made him the most prepared Republican candidate for the job.
In a nominating contest that remains remarkably fluid, though, it remains an open question whether he will maintain his strengths until the voting begins early next year. His rivals, particularly Mr. Perry and his allies, are poised to begin their television advertising soon, which could change the dynamic of the race.
When asked whom he would appoint to the Federal Reserve, Mr. Romney demurred.
''I'm not sure I'm the nominee yet,'' he said.
''Nor is anyone else,'' replied the PBS host Charlie Rose, one of the debate moderators.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Republicans gathered for debate on Tuesday at Dartmouth College, and the scene resembled a talk show. Charlie Rose was one of the moderators. (POOL PHOTO BY TONI SANDYS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BAILOUTS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX REFORM (64%); SALES TAX (64%)

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK PERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); HERMAN CAIN (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); CHARLIE ROSE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



542 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Something's Happening Here

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
When you see spontaneous social protests erupting from Tunisia to Tel Aviv to Wall Street, it's clear that something is happening globally that needs defining. There are two unified theories out there that intrigue me. One says this is the start of ''The Great Disruption.'' The other says that this is all part of ''The Big Shift.'' You decide. 
Paul Gilding, the Australian environmentalist and author of the book ''The Great Disruption,'' argues that these demonstrations are a sign that the current growth-obsessed capitalist system is reaching its financial and ecological limits. ''I look at the world as an integrated system, so I don't see these protests, or the debt crisis, or inequality, or the economy, or the climate going weird, in isolation -- I see our system in the painful process of breaking down,'' which is what he means by the Great Disruption, said Gilding. ''Our system of economic growth, of ineffective democracy, of overloading planet earth -- our system -- is eating itself alive. Occupy Wall Street is like the kid in the fairy story saying what everyone knows but is afraid to say: the emperor has no clothes. The system is broken. Think about the promise of global market capitalism. If we let the system work, if we let the rich get richer, if we let corporations focus on profit, if we let pollution go unpriced and unchecked, then we will all be better off. It may not be equally distributed, but the poor will get less poor, those who work hard will get jobs, those who study hard will get better jobs and we'll have enough wealth to fix the environment.
''What we now have -- most extremely in the U.S. but pretty much everywhere -- is the mother of all broken promises,'' Gilding adds. ''Yes, the rich are getting richer and the corporations are making profits -- with their executives richly rewarded. But, meanwhile, the people are getting worse off -- drowning in housing debt and/or tuition debt -- many who worked hard are unemployed; many who studied hard are unable to get good work; the environment is getting more and more damaged; and people are realizing their kids will be even worse off than they are. This particular round of protests may build or may not, but what will not go away is the broad coalition of those to whom the system lied and who have now woken up. It's not just the environmentalists, or the poor, or the unemployed. It's most people, including the highly educated middle class, who are feeling the results of a system that saw all the growth of the last three decades go to the top 1 percent.''
Not so fast, says John Hagel III, who is the co-chairman of the Center for the Edge at Deloitte, along with John Seely Brown. In their recent book, ''The Power of Pull,'' they suggest that we're in the early stages of a ''Big Shift,'' precipitated by the merging of globalization and the Information Technology Revolution. In the early stages, we experience this Big Shift as mounting pressure, deteriorating performance and growing stress because we continue to operate with institutions and practices that are increasingly dysfunctional -- so the eruption of protest movements is no surprise.
Yet, the Big Shift also unleashes a huge global flow of ideas, innovations, new collaborative possibilities and new market opportunities. This flow is constantly getting richer and faster. Today, they argue, tapping the global flow becomes the key to productivity, growth and prosperity. But to tap this flow effectively, every country, company and individual needs to be constantly growing their talents.
''We are living in a world where flow will prevail and topple any obstacles in its way,'' says Hagel. ''As flow gains momentum, it undermines the precious knowledge stocks that in the past gave us security and wealth. It calls on us to learn faster by working together and to pull out of ourselves more of our true potential, both individually and collectively. It excites us with the possibilities that can only be realized by participating in a broader range of flows. That is the essence of the Big Shift.''
Yes, corporations now have access to more cheap software, robots, automation, labor and genius than ever. So holding a job takes more talent. But the flip side is that individuals -- individuals -- anywhere can now access the flow to take online courses at Stanford from a village in Africa, to start a new company with customers everywhere or to collaborate with people anywhere. We have more big problems than ever and more problem-solvers than ever.
So there you have it: Two master narratives -- one threat-based, one opportunity-based, but both involving seismic changes. Gilding is actually an optimist at heart. He believes that while the Great Disruption is inevitable, humanity is best in a crisis, and, once it all hits, we will rise to the occasion and produce transformational economic and social change (using tools of the Big Shift). Hagel is also an optimist. He knows the Great Disruption may be barreling down on us, but he believes that the Big Shift has also created a world where more people than ever have the tools, talents and potential to head it off. My heart is with Hagel, but my head says that you ignore Gilding at your peril.
You decide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); WRITERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



543 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Painful Job Cuts Coming to Wall St.

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and CHRISTOPHER SWANN

 BODY:
There seems to be no end to the bad news for bankers. They're already on the defensive. Third-quarter earnings look set to be shoddy. Another 10,000 banking jobs may be cut. And the Occupy Wall Street protesters headed uptown on Tuesday to have a gander at the residence of Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive. Yet staff sizes at financials still haven't shrunk enough, suggesting more pain is to come.
Despite the fallout from the 2008 financial crisis, the sector actually accounts for a bigger share of the American economy than before the crisis, representing 8.4 percent of total gross domestic product. Output from manufacturing, while still larger, shrank from 2006 to 2010. 
Moreover, job cuts in New York City's securities industry have trimmed finance payrolls by only 22,000, or 12 percent, according to Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York state comptroller. He expects another 10,000 pink slips to be delivered by the end of 2012. But if culls after previous financial problems are any guide, that may prove too optimistic. After the dot-com crash, for example, New York lost twice as many Wall Street jobs as it lost in the current crisis.
Compensation also still seems out of whack. The paycheck, including bonuses, of an average worker at a securities firm increased 16.1 percent in 2010 to more than $360,000. That's five and a half times the average private sector wage, the comptroller says. In 1980, it was only twice the private sector wage.
There are multiple reasons Wall Street survived the 2008 crisis aftermath in better shape than many expected, chief among them taxpayer support and billions of dollars pumped into financial markets. That inflated asset prices and trading desk profits. But with the economy now stalled and Uncle Sam exhausting ways to jump-start it, additional job cuts are more likely. Longer term, new regulations will probably restrain profitability further, necessitating even more work force reductions.
Bringing banks back into balance won't be painful just for the financiers in the pinstripe suits, though. Reducing the industry's contribution to the economy means fewer taxes for federal, state and local governments to collect, especially in New York, where no other sector looks healthy enough to pick up the slack. But it's an adjustment that's overdue.
A Bargain in Oil
Economic fear has taken a heavier toll on American oil company shares than on crude itself. Either there are bargains among the stocks of oil explorers, or commodity investors are too bullish. The difference of opinion ought to mean there's room to make money.
Crude speculators have not been totally impervious to worries over a global slowdown. Both the West Texas Intermediate and Brent crude oil benchmarks are sharply down from the end-of-April peaks. But compared with the start of the year, oil has fared relatively well. W.T.I. is down just 7 percent and Brent is actually up close to 14 percent. Futures markets are not bracing for a price plunge over the next two years.
By contrast, investors in United States oil and gas exploration companies are taking the threat of a global slowdown more seriously. The Standard & Poor's exploration and production index is down by more than 10 percent since the start of 2011. As a result, many of these companies now look cheap.
Wildcatters are now typically trading at an enterprise value of around 4.8 times estimated 2012 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, well below the average of 5.8 that has held since 2005, according to Tudor Pickering, an energy investment bank.
The sector, which includes Apache and Occidental Petroleum, is also trading on enterprise values that reflect a 20 percent discount to the market value of proven reserves, Tudor Pickering estimates.
The stocks are a steal only if traders are right to be sanguine about oil prices. Another 15 percent fall in crude, and it looks less like a bargain. Futures markets are pricing Brent at $100 in a year's time. That doesn't appear to allow for the weakness in demand that could accompany future turmoil in the global economy. But investors might not need to make that call to profit from the arbitrage opportunity. Whatever happens to the oil price, the gap in the outlook between commodity and stock markets should narrow. A bet that shares of oil explorers will rise relative to the price of crude looks like a smart one. AGNES T. CRANE and CHRISTOPHER SWANN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oil wells in Texas. Shares in oil explorers may be a smart bet if oil prices increase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%); OIL EXPLORATION (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



544 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1775 words

HEADLINE: A Critic Selects a Last Meal

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON. 
This is Sam Sifton's last review. A new restaurant critic will be named later this year.

 BODY:
SO this is the best restaurant in New York City: Per Se, in the Time Warner Center, just up the escalator from the mall, a jewel amid the zirconia.
I make the argument unreservedly. I have eaten in restaurants five or more nights a week for the last two years, always in search of the best and most delectable, the most interesting and important. And I have come back again and again to Per Se to find it.
The restaurant opened in 2004, an East Coast satellite of Thomas Keller's legendary French Laundry in Yountville, Calif. It was Mr. Keller's first venture in New York since the late 1980s, when he walked away from Rakel, a yellow-tie expense-account establishment buffeted by the recession.
Per Se astonished diners from almost the very first. In a review published in September 2004, Frank Bruni of The New York Times awarded the restaurant four stars, the newspaper's highest rating. 
Mr. Bruni was not unreserved in his praise. Per Se in its early days could be a marvel of pretension and clock-gobbling silliness. I had a dinner there that first year that appeared to seamlessly combine French pretension with control-freaky West Coast pedantry. I learned a lot about the provenance of the caper berries, the butter, a single frond of micro carrot green. There were tight smiles and stifled yawns.
''Maddening,'' Mr. Bruni called such a night in his review.
But in recent years, and particularly under the kitchen command of Eli Kaimeh, who has been Per Se's chef since early 2010, Per Se has matured. Its synthesis of culinary art and exquisite service is now complete. It represents the ideal of an American high-culture luxury restaurant.
Per Se's signature starter course is Oysters and Pearls, a dish Mr. Keller developed at French Laundry and brought with him when he moved East. It combines a sabayon of pearl tapioca with Island Creek oysters (small, marble-shaped, from Duxbury, south of Boston, fantastic) and a fat clump of sturgeon caviar from Northern California. These arrive in a bowl of the finest porcelain from Limoges. Paired with a glass of golden semillon from Elderton, they make a fine argument for the metaphor of transubstantiation.
The appetizer is not food so much as a poem about creaminess, a meditation on brine, a sculpture about the delicious. It is a complete introduction to the restaurant and its pleasures.
But perhaps foie gras is more to your liking? At one dinner at Per Se, I had a torchon of moulard duck foie gras from Elevages Perigord in Quebec, served with a crystallized apple chip, some celery-branch batons (taken to 11 on the flavor scale by some compression and sous-vide cooking), Granny Smith apple marmalade, candied walnuts, frisee and juniper-balsamic vinegar. I spread it thickly on brioche toast that a server kept replacing every few minutes, since (he said) it should never be eaten cool. (This is true, as it happens: the bread grows heavy and stiff.) I ate it silently, as one can do only with friends and family, savoring the experience as I might have a massage or a sunset.
Such excitements have a real effect on who ought to go to Per Se and why. The restaurant is not a place to book for a business meal. Nor is it a restaurant for those who do not eat well together. A meal at Per Se can stretch to four to five hours -- a long time to sit with anyone, even a client with whom you are trying to close a multimillion-dollar deal. The restaurant more handsomely rewards the companionship of those who love one another as much as they do pleasure and indulgence.
Nor is Per Se a restaurant for those who do not understand that such pleasure comes at a cost. The menu has a set price of $295 a person, excluding wine. Nine or more courses are prepared, along with canapes to start and mignardises to finish. A conversation with a sommelier can easily double the cost of the buy-in. Dinner for two can scratch at $1,000 -- or about the same as the median weekly household income in New York State.
By point of context, though, an aisle orchestra seat at the Metropolitan Opera for Donizetti's ''L'Elisir d'Amore'' runs $330, also excluding wine.
And to some, a simple gardensalad is the functional equivalent of an aria -- particularly as sung at Per Se, with compressed figs and young red beets, Hakurei turnips (small, plump and white, very cute in aspect), red ribbon sorrel and a coulis of pine nuts. Each flavor is bright, distinct, amazing, but none is so purely intense, as reduced to its essence, as the dense, fragrant craziness of the figs.
To others, joy may be found in a simple omelet, with mushrooms, leeks, mizuna and a crucial drizzle of barrel-aged tamari. (Standing-room tickets are not sold, but there is an a la carte menu available in the salon up front, and careful diners could eat there for less than $100.)
The restaurant's truffle-stuffed fat-chicken thigh -- crisp, soft, juicy, deep in flavor, with Medjool dates made into marbles, a Nantes carrot mousseline and buttery truffle sauce -- might be a tenor's great turn. And the beauty of Christofle flatware and Raynaud china, as well as a polished view of the Christopher Columbus statue below, the twinkle of gas firelight and the feel of linens ironed to the texture of freshly sanded pine, can be exactly analogous to towering sets and a thundering orchestra, to the kind of stagecraft that can lead to tears and applause.
For such people, Per Se exists.
A meal at the restaurant at the end of September brought pan-roasted Massachusetts cod, with applewood smoked bacon, briny littleneck clams, pickled garlic, celery and shoots of parsley. ''Clam chowder'' was the description on the menu, as ''shiny glass'' might have advertised a diamond. The cod had a sweetness beneath its crisp, salty exterior that was distinct from that of the clams, which claimed the texture of the bacon. It was a pure distillation of autumn east of the Bourne Bridge, a Hopper painting made edible, seafood squared.
Another Keller Klassic followed: butter-poached lobster, with melted leeks and horseradish creme fraiche, thin-sliced potatoes roasted in clarified butter, watercress and a lemony red-beet emulsion. There was pressed duck on the table, too, blood-mineral against the funk of Burgundy truffles. Rabbit with cherry tomatoes and sweet corn, a wave of frisee and a beautiful swoosh of truffled hollandaise. Charred eggplant with compressed cucumbers, more red ribbon sorrel and fresh market peppers. Course after course arrived: tiny, rich little plates of food running into one another as if to create a montage sequence or a kaleidoscopic dream that ended in a castle of chocolates and macarons. You may ask to tour the kitchen afterward, or linger over coffee, or simply stare out at Columbus and his dour expression, and contemplate Nirvana.
Per Se has competitors up on restaurant Olympus, Heras and Poseidons with dominions of their own.
The towering Deco ceilings of Eleven Madison Park are a marvelous frame for the precise, artful cooking of Daniel Humm and the genial, mind-reading service style of the restaurant's general manager, Will Guidara. You can eat in well-upholstered Continental luxury, with virtually your every need addressed and hunger sated, at Daniel or Del Posto. (And you ought to.) Jean Georges is among the best places in the world in which to celebrate a business deal. And I had a serving of shaved razor clams with sea urchin sauce and Osetra caviar in the beautifully renovated new dining room of Le Bernardin that was the most fully realized and delicious combination of flavors I have experienced in 2011. Maguy Le Coze and Eric Ripert, that restaurant's owners, stand tall amid these ranks.
But no restaurant in New York City does a better job than Per Se of making personal and revelatory the process of spending hundreds and hundreds of dollars on food and drink.
Before all that, however: ''How are you doing?''
This is how meals often end at Per Se, with a captain checking in on his charges, the table crammed with candies and truffles, with coffee semifreddo and the stray ends of exquisite doughnuts. The question is sincere. If you asked for a Coke and a Marlboro, surely these would soon appear. (Most ask for a check, as if to say, ''Uncle.'')
Observation and reporting would seem to suggest that such coddling is the case for most who eat at Per Se, not just those who are regulars or who are, like me, dining professionally. With just 16 tables in a huge space in the center of Manhattan, no restaurant can afford to snub people paying such long money for meals.
Not that it is the opinion of others that seems to matter most to the restaurant's staff. As Michael Minnillo wrote in a charming essay in Finesse, a magazine that Mr. Keller publishes and distributes at the French Laundry and Per Se, the point of their enterprise is that the staff's standards for excellence are higher than anyone else's. (No surprise: Mr. Keller's father was a Marine.)
Mr. Minnillo has been a captain at Per Se since its first day, and was at the French Laundry for seven years before that. ''So, if I impress the fish cook and he impresses me, then the blogger at table 3 has no chance,'' Mr. Minnillo wrote. ''He is going to be blown away.''
Per Se
Rating: 4 stars
Time Warner Center, Columbus Circle; (212) 823-9335, perseny.com.
ATMOSPHERE A handsome brown-hued dining room with 16 tables, a great deal of space between them and a gripping view of Columbus Circle and Central Park.
SOUND LEVEL Quiet, though laughter rings out often and comfortably.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Oysters and Pearls, gateau of foie gras, clam chowder, sweet corn veloute , omelet with mushroom duxelles and aged tamari, butter-poached lobster; pressed duck; huckleberry sorbet with whipped lemon verbena and red-wine granite.
WINE LIST Lengthy, thoughtful and widely varied in geography and price, with many bottles under $100. Sommeliers provide excellent pairing advice.
PRICE RANGE Two menus available, one a vegetable tasting, the other a chef's tasting: nine courses, $295; an a la carte salon menu runs $14 to $46. Lunch tasting menu: five courses, $185. All prices include service and non-alcoholic beverages.
HOURS Lunch Friday to Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Dinner daily, 5:30 to 10 p.m.
RESERVATIONS Call exactly one month ahead, at 10 a.m., when the reservation line opens. Expect to redial and to hold. Or visit opentable.com and test your click speed.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Accessible.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TEAMWORK: The chef Eli Kaimeh, far right, oversees the preparation of an eagerly awaited dish at Per Se, Thomas Keller's restaurant in the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle.(D1)
 DETAILS: Applying a finishing touch on the agnolotti at Per Se. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL KRIEGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



545 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Want to Get Fat on Wall Street? Try Protesting

BYLINE: By JEFF GORDINIER

 BODY:
AFTER nearly two weeks of living among the Occupy Wall Street protesters in downtown Manhattan, Ellis Roberts, 25, a Pennsylvania garbage collector laid off last year, looked scruffy and dazed.
He was not, however, hungry.
''I've been here for 12 days, and I've put on 5 pounds,'' he said, sitting on the ground in front of a handmade sign that said ''Class War Ahead.'' ''I'm eating better than I do at home.''
Like the rest of his anti-corporate comrades, Mr. Roberts learned soon after arriving in Zuccotti Park that his meals would be taken care of. All he had to do was amble toward a ramshackle cluster of tables and boxes in the middle of the park and, without paying a cent, grab a slice of pizza or a warm slab of homemade vegan casserole. Last Thursday he had encountered ''a bunch of Katz's Deli sandwiches,'' he said. ''That was good.''
The makeshift kitchen has fed thousands of protesters each day. Along the way, it has developed a cuisine not unlike the Occupy Wall Street movement itself: free-form, eclectic, improvisatory and contradictory. 
Requests for food go out on Twitter and various Web sites sympathetic to the protesters. And somehow, in spontaneous waves, day after day, the food pours in. The donations are received with enthusiasm, even when they are not precisely what the troops might have desired.
Robert Strype, 29, a protester from the Poughkeepsie, N.Y., area who was wearing a T-shirt that expressed his displeasure with Monsanto, said that anger about practices like factory farming and the genetic modification of vegetables was one of the factors that had roused him and some of his fellow occupiers. ''Food plays a huge part in this movement,'' he said. ''Because people are tired of being fed poison.''
That said, nobody was turning down any donations. Some, like the sudden arrival of a much-needed can opener, were greeted with whoops of gratitude. Others caused twinges of puzzlement.
''Someone gave us Spam,'' said Elliot Hartmann-Russell, 18, a volunteer who held up a can of the meat and stared at it while sorting through the donations. ''I'm not going to eat it, but ... .''
Tom Hintze, 24, was volunteering in Zuccotti Park last week. ''Just now there was a big UPS delivery,'' he said. ''We don't know where it comes from. It just appears, and we eat it.''
He and his colleagues in what might be seen as the Occupy Wall Street pop-up restaurant have fielded homemade stews and boxes of organic carrots. They have also added stacks of Wolfgang Puck canned soup and Quaker oatmeal and Pepperidge Farm goldfish to their gastronomic arsenal.
The kitchen's philosophy isn't quite the farm-to-table approach Mr. Hintze internalized while on the wait staff at the expensive and high-toned Blue Hill at Stone Barns in Westchester County, N.Y. Still, he was picking up a similar community-based ethos.
''This is as grass roots as eating can get,'' he said.
Because city law prevents open flames in the park, and because the menu relies on that steady but unpredictable supply of donations from home cooks, food trucks, farmers, restaurants and markets, what appears on any given occupier's paper plate can be more of a cross-cultural mishmash than the menu at the Dutch. If politics makes strange bedfellows, it makes even stranger flavor pairings.
''It's kind of a scramble to keep on top of the donations we receive,'' said Anj Ferrara, 24, who seemed to have slipped into a leadership role in the kitchen, even though Occupy Wall Street resists the concept of appointed leaders. The deliveries, she said, can throw the kitchen crew for a loop.
At any moment, scores of cucumbers might be dropped off, and the volunteers, like contestants on ''Chopped,'' have to improvise a quick use for them. Last Thursday evening, they made a rapid-fire cucumber salad. The timing was fortunate: fresh cucumbers paired nicely with the heaps of falafel organizers had paid for by pooling contributed money. Ms. Ferrara had come to Zuccotti Park, in part, ''to push the sustainable-food side of things,'' she said. ''I feel we're all moving toward a small-farm economy. That's what this is.''
Platters and utensils are washed on site. The soapy runoff slides into a gray-water system that's said to draw impurities out through a small network of mulch-like filters.
Ms. Ferrara said they had begun looking for a nearby kitchen they could use to prepare all the perishable food coming in; that might reduce the need to rely on takeout. ''We're hoping to find a donated space,'' she said. ''A better, more professional space so that we can cater to the needs of our growing family, and prepare better meals, basically.''
The topic has come up in general assembly meetings. ''It was discussed positively, which means we might make some moves on that,'' said Camille Raneem, 21, who has worked in the kitchen. ''We do have it in our budget to rent a space in the area,'' she said, but ''we're looking for whatever help we can get. I don't know how much longer we can live on PB&J's between meals.''
While this restaurant doesn't yet have a stove, it does sort of have the early murmurings of a philosophy, which might be defined as box-to-table communal scavenging, or ''we share whatever people bring us.''
Or, what they have thrown out. Among the movement's supporters, Mr. Hintze said, are ''people that know where the good Dumpsters are.''
''As I'm sure you know, people just get rid of stuff,'' he said. ''And that's great for us.''
The soundtrack at the pop-up is a near-constant cacophony of construction noise, the wail of sirens and the pounding of drum circles, and it is almost certainly the only dining establishment in America with a cartoon drawing of a ''global tapeworm'' a few feet from where people line up for lunch.
Members of the crew sometimes fail to show up in the morning because they were arrested the night before. (Then again, as many a chef will tell you, that happens in a lot of restaurants.)
Since the protests began in September, nearby restaurants have experienced a strange uptick in phone calls and online orders, many of them coming from other parts of the world. Telly Liberatos, 29, the owner of Liberatos Pizza on Cedar Street in the Financial District, said he has received orders from places like Germany, France, England, Italy and Greece, as well as every region of the United States.
''It's been nonstop,'' he said. ''The phones don't stop ringing. People from California order the most at one time.'' Someone from the West Coast had called in the biggest delivery: he wanted 50 pizzas dispatched to the park.
The protests may raise questions about certain tenets and practices of capitalism, but that hasn't dissuaded Mr. Liberatos from using a little old-school marketing to appeal to the hordes. He's selling a $15 Occu-Pie with a Ghostbusters-style slash symbol arranged on the top in a ring of pepperoni.
At Katz's, the deli on Houston Street, ''thousands of dollars'' in Occupy Wall Street orders have been coming ''from customers who are sympathetic to the cause,'' said Alan Dell, one of the owners. The deli has sent pastrami, brisket, corned beef and turkey sandwiches, as well as heaps of pickles, potato salad and coleslaw. ''The potato latkes don't travel well because there's no way to heat them up again,'' Mr. Dell said.
Now and then, the park's kitchen gets lucky. Bob Reich, who once worked for Birdbath Bakery in Manhattan, appeared in the encampment a few minutes before 7 p.m. bearing bags of freshly baked cookies. ''The ingredients are as organic as we can get them,'' he said.
The first few protesters in line for dinner would, it seemed, enjoy an upscale dessert course. Why had Mr. Reich made the effort? ''Because I support what people are doing here,'' he said. ''And who doesn't love a cookie?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LUNCH DATE: Tom Hintze at the Occupy Wall Street kitchen in Zuccotti Park.(D1)
 PARK PLACE: Above, Ellis Roberts, at right, gained five pounds from the Zuccotti Park food. Below, in line for a meal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); ORGANIC FOODS (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); FACTORY FARMS (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (53%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (53%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (53%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG PUCK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



546 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Laid Flat by Layaway

BYLINE: By LOUIS HYMAN. 
Louis Hyman is an assistant professor of history at Cornell and the author of ''Debtor Nation: A History of America in Red Ink.''

 BODY:
Ithaca, N.Y.
IN another sign that the national economy is suffering through a rerun of the 1970s, Wal-Mart recently announced that it was bringing back its Christmas layaway program. Beginning on Oct. 17, shoppers who buy at least $50 worth of goods, put 10 percent down and pay a $5 fee will be able to pay for their purchases slowly over the next two months, all for the ostensible purpose of avoiding debt.
Wal-Mart's press releases suggest that the restoration of the layaway program, which was discontinued in 2006, is meant to help its customers ''budget'' so that Christmas can be ''worry-free.'' The company is partly playing on the economic insecurity of its customers, and partly on the national nostalgia for the days before credit-card debt. But the truth is, the program is a bad deal for everyone -- except Wal-Mart. 
Wal-Mart is not alone in the return to layaway; Sears and Toys ''R'' Us also have revived their programs. The plans first became common in the 1930s. Stores that catered to the well-to-do, like department stores, offered no-interest credit to be paid off at the end of the month. But store owners feared extending such offers to lower-income shoppers, believing they were likely to be slow to repay, or even default on their debt, which would tie up the store's working capital.
Stores didn't want to turn away lower-income customers, though -- hence layaway. It allowed them to impulse shop and take advantage of sales, but it also protected the store's capital. And if shoppers couldn't pay the layaway, the store could resell the goods.
But layaway fell out of favor during the last decade as lower-income Americans gained access to credit. It was better for stores, too, since credit cards are easier to administer -- most of the work is handled by the card company, not the store. Most stores, except for a few holdouts like Kmart, eliminated their programs.
At first glance, the return of layaway makes sense. Fewer lower-income shoppers have access to the sort of credit they once did, and many can't afford big purchases outright. And there is a moral appeal as well: customers paying layaway are effectively saving toward something, a reward they will receive only if they meet their goal, rather than paying off the debt on a purchase they have already made.
Nevertheless, as a financing option, layaway is decidedly worse than most credit cards. Imagine a mother going to Wal-Mart on Oct. 17 and buying $100 worth of Christmas toys. She makes a down payment of $10 and pays a $5 service fee. Over the next two months she pays off the rest. In effect, she is paying $5 in interest for a $90 loan for two months: the equivalent of a credit card with a 44 percent annual percentage rate, a level most of us would consider predatory.
In comparison, even a card with an 18 percent A.P.R. would charge only half as much interest -- and she could take those presents home the same day.
Then consider what would happen if she couldn't finish all the payments. Wal-Mart would give her the money back, less $10. If she borrowed that $90 and paid $15 in interest for two months, she would have the equivalent of a jaw-dropping interest rate of 131 percent.
These numbers assume she borrowed for the maximum amount of time, two months, and put double the minimum required amount on layaway. But if that period were shortened or the shopper put the minimum amount on layaway, those rates would go up proportionately.
With rates like that, why would anyone participate in layaway? Retailers talk about the plans as a way to give consumers more choice, but in fact it's the result of the opposite: the desperation arising from many Americans' inability to borrow, save and, most important, earn.
Credit, after all, is a great deal, giving us the use of something today that we pay for tomorrow. One could also put the money that would go to layaway into a savings account, where it would earn some interest. But non-predatory credit is hard to come by these days, even for middle-class shoppers, and, according to the 2007 Survey of Consumer Finance, even before the crisis 25 percent of lower-income Americans had no bank account at all.
Indeed, rather than reminding us of the morally upright, pre-credit days we left behind, the return of layaway should remind us that in many ways we're still stuck in that decade: since the early 1970s, the median male wage has declined. Any rise in household earnings has come from more women entering the marketplace, not from higher wages.
It didn't feel that way, of course, because the expansion of credit to moderate- and lower-income Americans made us all believe we were getting richer. And, not surprisingly, as better options emerged, people dumped layaway plans. The programs' return, then, isn't a signal that consumers have more choice. It's a signal that in today's cruel economy, there's no choice left.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIC HANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SALES FINANCING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); WORKING CAPITAL (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (76%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (76%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (76%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



547 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Asks Banks For Details On Recruiting

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
The top financial regulator in Massachusetts on Tuesday asked many of Wall Street's biggest banks for more information on their hedge fund recruiting services.
In a letter of inquiry sent to Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, UBS and Morgan Stanley, William F. Galvin, the secretary of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, asked the firms to give a list of the clients they had provided employment referrals to since January 2009. Mr. Galvin said his letter was aimed at putting the firms ''on notice that these are issues that need to be explored.'' 
The request comes the day after an article in The New York Times explained how Wall Street firms had established staffing services in an effort to attract and retain brokerage and trading business.
Press officers for Goldman, Morgan Stanley, UBS, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank declined to comment about the inquiry.
As hedge funds have become more prominent, they have become a significant driver of banks' earnings. The industry accounts for as much as 35 percent of all trading revenue on Wall Street, according to the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
In the wake of the financial crisis, such profit centers have proved all the more important, prompting Wall Street banks to sweeten their services. Big banks, previously informal recruiters, now have entrenched practices to help hedge funds find financial executives, accountants and other professionals.
Mr. Galvin is exploring the scope of the relationships. While he does not yet know what direction the inquiry may take, if any, he already sees some potential avenues of exploration. For instance, he said firms might be offering the service only to select hedge funds, which could violate Massachusetts securities laws.
He also said he planned to look at whether the Wall Street recruiting broke rules regarding gift-giving. These laws prohibit Wall Street firms from giving gifts valued at more than $100 a year to individuals who are in a position to direct business to them.
The staffing services could also raise questions about disclosure. It is unclear whether hedge funds detail the nature of the relationships to their investors. The concern is that the money managers could be directing business to banks in exchange for recruiting, at the expense of their investors.
Earlier this year, Mr. Galvin's department fined Goldman Sachs $10 million for hosting so-called trading huddles in its stock research department. At these meetings, analysts developed short-term trading ideas to share with the biggest clients.
Mr. Galvin's office said in a statement in June that the huddles were ''a dishonest and unethical violation of the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act by putting certain clients at an advantage over others.'' Goldman agreed to stop holding trading huddles.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); ETHICS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (68%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



548 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Senate Jabs China Over Its Currency

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A bipartisan cross-section of Congress seems to agree that China manipulates its currency in ways that make it harder for many American manufacturers to compete. Where they cannot find alignment is on how best to address that problem, while maintaining America's relationship with its biggest lender and a major trading partner.
On Tuesday, the Senate passed a bill that would require the Treasury Department to order the Commerce Department to impose tough tariffs on certain Chinese goods in the event of a finding by the Treasury that China was improperly valuing its currency to gain an economic advantage. 
The measure passed 63 to 35, with 16 Republican votes, an unusual dynamic in the Democrat-controlled Senate. It enjoyed rare support from members of both parties despite the strong disapproval of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, who pressed his party colleagues to vote against it.
At the same time, House Republicans have made it clear they have no intention of bringing the currency measure to the floor, and the White House has given it a chilly reception, fearing it too blunt an instrument against China, which has slowly moved to increase its currency value.
This is a reverse of last year when a similar, though less stringent, measure passed the House and the Senate neglected to take it up, preferring its own bill. Democrats are now trying, against political headwinds, to force a vote on that same measure against the desires of Republican leaders.
The tennis ball volleying of the trade legislation underscores the vexing problem that China presents to Congress: Many members, especially those from manufacturing states, want to be seen as doing something about that nation's trade advantages, yet the White House and some leaders in both parties think it is far too risky to actually pull the trigger on a solution.
As a result, even as some Senate Republicans and many House Democrats pressure House Republicans to get on board, the Obama administration is counting on House Republicans to do what they want, which is to leave any bill to punish the Chinese government over its currency policies in a file cabinet. ''Shifting political dynamics and changes in rhetoric about free trade tend to play out in unpredictable ways against the background of a bipartisan desire to get tough with China,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University. ''A lurking concern is that this bill won't help the U.S. economy significantly and could instead hurt job growth if China retaliates aggressively and trade tensions compound economic uncertainty, setting back an already fragile recovery. I suspect both parties are a little concerned about supporting such legislation if it backfires. ''
Regional politics, White House pressures and jurisdictional disputes have impeded a deal. Large multinational companies, especially those that have large investments in China, vehemently oppose the bill, while smaller manufacturers facing more import competition, tend to favor it.
The Senate bill would require the Treasury Department to determine whether China was manipulating its currency, and then order the Commerce Department to impose retaliatory tariffs on certain Chinese goods.
The People's Bank of China, the country's central bank, issued a response to the Senate vote early Wednesday, denying that China had manipulated the value of its currency, the renminbi. ''The renminbi exchange rate is gradually achieving a more balanced and reasonable level,'' the central bank said in a statement.
But critics have pointed out that a narrowing of China's broadly measured trade surplus mainly reflects surging imports of commodities like oil and iron ore, and that the renminbi has been rising gradually over the last year against the dollar but actually weakening against other currencies, including the euro.
The House version of the China measure has 225 co-sponsors, and passed that chamber 348 to 79 while it was under Democratic control last year, with support from 99 Republicans.
House Democrats have been circulating what is known as a discharge petition, a measure used by the minority party to force the party controlling the chamber to bring the bill back to the floor. Such a petition would require 218 signatures; currently only 176 members have signed. Representative Hal Rogers of Kentucky, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, was the only Republican to sign it but he withdrew his name. Getting further Republican support is unlikely since it puts the lawmaker in opposition with party leaders.
Republican House leaders, who openly criticize many Chinese policies, largely voted against the bill when it came to the floor last year. They oppose the measure because they are worry it would start a trade war with China, increase prices of American goods and pull at the threads of the gossamerlike relationship between the two countries. It is a view expressed by Senate opponents, too.
Senator Joe Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said on the Senate floor, ''During times of economic recession such as the one we are in now, over history nations have repeatedly become protectionists. But history also shows that protectionist policy makes the economic problems worse, not better.''
However, lawmakers from manufacturing-heavy states have pushed hard for it, and will pressure House Republicans to get on board. ''I don't believe you have a middle class in America without a vibrant manufacturing base,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama. ''We'll stand up and take our lumps and take our gains in a fair competition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, left, and Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, favored the measure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); POLITICS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



549 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: The Public Domain

 BODY:
A major copyright case argued at the Supreme Court last week tests Congress's power to expand copyright protection against First Amendment interests in having older works remain in the public domain. In Golan v. Holder, free speech rights should prevail. 
The lawsuit was brought by orchestra conductors, educators and others who challenged Congress's ability to restore copyright protection to foreign works that had been in the public domain for decades. They make a convincing argument that restoration has caused them to lose free expression rights central to their professions.
In 1994, Congress restored the copyright of many important works by foreign authors -- like Prokofiev's ''Peter and the Wolf'' -- that had entered the public domain in the United States but are still protected by copyright in their own countries. The restoration was part of a larger trade pact, the Uruguay Round Agreements Act.
The government contends that Section 514 of the pact, promotes progress through ''active participation'' in the global economy. But the restoration breaks with two centuries of understanding about the public domain: what enters there remains there, free to all for any kind of use. Section 514 violates the First Amendment by removing works from the public domain and curbing the public's right to expression and it impedes growth of knowledge.
As the petitioners said in their brief, ''no treaty can authorize the government to do what the Constitution otherwise prohibits.'' Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. put it this way during argument: ''One day I can perform Shostakovich; Congress does something, the next day I can't. Doesn't that present a serious First Amendment problem?''
Copyright gives writers and others the incentive to create by giving them exclusive right to their work. But Congress's power to grant copyright is limited in time and scope so that works can move into the public domain, where they become an essential part of our culture. The government must find other ways to comply with the trade treaty without curbing free expression.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHT (93%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (92%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PETITIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



550 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: A Year Out of the Dark in Chile, but Still Trapped

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Aaron Nelsen contributed reporting from Copiapo and Santiago, Chile.

 BODY:
COPIAPO, Chile -- After his dramatic rescue from a mine last year, Jimmy Sanchez traveled the world, cruising the Greek islands, visiting Britain, Israel, Los Angeles, Disney World -- all paid for by people who were moved by the Chilean miners' story of courage and perseverance.
But today Mr. Sanchez, like many of the 33 miners who survived 69 days nearly a half-mile underground, is jobless and at wits' end. Twice a month, he boards a bus to Santiago, Chile's capital, traveling 11 hours each way for a short visit with a psychiatrist. He is one of nine miners receiving sick-leave pay for prolonged post-traumatic stress; a handful of others say they are seeing private therapists.
''Most of us are in the same place with emotional and psychological problems,'' said Mr. Sanchez, 20. ''It was the fear that we would never again see our families, that we were going to die. We just can't shake those memories.''
One year after their globally televised rescue, after the worldwide spotlight faded and the trips and offers have dwindled, the miners say that most of them are unemployed and that many are poorer than before. 
Only a handful of them have steady jobs, they say. Just four have returned to mining. Two others, Victor Zamora and Dario Segovia, are trying to make ends meet by selling fruits and vegetables, one from a stall, the other out of his truck.
''They made us feel like heroes,'' said Edison Pena, another miner, who is now in a psychiatric clinic. ''In the end, we are selling peanuts. It's ironic, isn't it?''
Some miners have been paid to do interviews or give motivational speeches. But those opportunities proved fleeting for most. Now many are counting on a Hollywood movie about them -- which still does not have a script -- to be their economic savior.
Mr. Pena, the miner who became famous for his love of Elvis Presley and running, is coping with trauma caused not only by his time below but also by the aftermath of the rescue, when the demands of instant celebrity proved overwhelming, his doctor said, leading him to abuse drugs and alcohol.
Three miners, including Mr. Sanchez and Mr. Segovia, recently resumed psychiatric treatment after the nightmares and sleeplessness returned. Doctors said that they expected more of them to have a relapse, and that many now get by on a steady regimen of sedatives and antidepressants.
''This is very similar to how Vietnam veterans suffered,'' said Rodrigo Gillibrand, the psychiatrist treating the nine men on sick leave covered by labor insurance, though the mine has been closed down. ''They have post-traumatic symptoms that could be chronic.''
In the wake of the rescue, the miners benefited from an outpouring of sympathy and support. A Chilean mining magnate, Leonardo Farkas, gave the miners more than $15,000 each so they could rest and recuperate. He also gave free homes to two who were marrying, and he said he helped one miner find psychiatric care after the miner found his fiancee with another man.
Mr. Sanchez, like many of the 16 miners interviewed, said he wanted to return to the mines. But Dr. Gillibrand has recommended that none of them work underground again.
Jose Ojeda tried to go back in February. After descending more than 1,000 feet in a drilling truck, the water was cut off. An assistant went to turn it back on, leaving Mr. Ojeda alone. He suffered a panic attack.
''I started to sweat a lot, a cold sweat,'' he said. ''I don't even remember how they took me out; I blacked out.''
Potential employers in Copiapo have declined to hire the miners for fear that they were psychologically scarred by their experience, several miners said.
Some people wonder whether the miners are trying. Mr. Farkas said no miner took him up on his job offer. But their requests for money keep rolling in.
He said he ''felt taken advantage of'' by Claudio Yanez, a miner for whom he bought a house worth $63,500, at least twice as much as he would usually pay for a worker's house. Mr. Farkas said that he wanted to give him a less expensive house, as he had done for his own employees, but that Mr. Yanez used a television crew to press him to buy the costly one.
''I did plenty for the miners; now they have to do it on their own,'' Mr. Farkas said.
Mr. Yanez, 35, denied taking advantage of Mr. Farkas, who he said gave him the house ''from his heart.''
He said he used a cash gift from Mr. Farkas to ''completely furnish'' the two-story home. But he has not worked since the rescue. ''We are in really bad shape; we don't have work, and no one wants to hire us,'' he said.
Much has changed in Chile since August 2010, when the miners were trapped after a gold-and-copper mine collapsed, only to be all discovered alive 17 days later. Their inspiring struggle to survive motivated Chile's president, Sebastian Pinera, to show the world that his country was at once compassionate and capable.
After a determined effort that cost millions of dollars, workers rescued all 33 miners last Oct. 13. The popularity of Mr. Pinera's government soared. He took maximum advantage, traveling around the world with the note in which a miner had first signaled that they were alive. But this year, amid months of protests about educational and environmental policies, the president's ratings have dropped to their lowest levels since he took office.
Despite criticism by politicians and some miners that Mr. Pinera has not done enough for them, the government recently gave $500-a-month pensions to 14 miners (the oldest and those with the most serious physical problems). But they were less than half of what most earned as miners.
On Thursday, local officials in Copiapo will commemorate the rescue by unveiling a 39-foot statue donated by a Chinese foundation. The miners say that they have been better appreciated abroad than at home in Chile. ''We feel a little abandoned here,'' said Mr. Pena, 35.
Mr. Pena became an instant celebrity upon exiting the mine. Soon he was invited to visit the grave of his hero Elvis Presley at Graceland. He appeared on ''Late Show With David Letterman'' while on a free trip to run the New York City marathon.
But the spotlight proved disorienting. The normally shy Mr. Pena turned to drinking and drugs. Last month, he walked into a private clinic that had offered him free care out of sympathy. These days, he spends his days painting and in numerous therapy sessions, he said.
A handful of miners continue to profit from their fame. Mario Sepulveda, dubbed ''Super Mario'' after his kinetic show of emotion upon exiting the mine, started a company to give motivational speeches, prompting jealousy among some of the other survivors.
''If I am persistent and keep on working, one day I might be a millionaire,'' he said last week before flying to Costa Rica to give another talk.
Still, Mr. Sepulveda, 41, is among those on sick leave for post-traumatic stress. ''This has been the worst year of my life, although you would not believe it,'' he said.
He recently joked on Twitter that he should act in the movie about the miners. Mike Medavoy, the Hollywood producer who has worked on films like ''Black Swan'' and ''Annie Hall,'' said on a visit here last month that he hoped to film in the Atacama Desert using relatives of the miners as extras.
''There is a lot of pressure now to do this right,'' Mr. Medavoy said at a lunch with the miners' families. ''Look at what would happen if I let these people down, forget the rest of it.''
While some miners are waiting for the movie to provide financial salvation, others are taking more concrete steps.
Pablo Rojas, 47, is a partner in a small mining operation with four employees. Another miner, Pedro Cortez, 26, inspired by setting up video feeds for the trapped miners to talk to their families, is studying electronics.
''Thirty-three people enter into a mine,'' Mr. Cortez said. ''We didn't exit the mine 33 friends.''
With an 8-year-old daughter to support, he sold a motorcycle he was given as a present after the rescue. A Swiss-Chilean man from Zurich who had read about Mr. Cortez's educational ambitions visited Copiapo last month and paid 70 percent of his tuition for the second semester, vowing to help him next year as well.
As a gesture of thanks, Mr. Cortez gave the man, Christian Ferrari, his last Chilean flag signed by all the miners.
''I have to get my family ahead; we can't be in the same place we were before,'' Mr. Cortez said. ''They fought for me for 70 days. Now it's my turn to step up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pablo Rojas and 32 other Chilean miners survived an ordeal a year ago
most are still struggling. (A1)
Jimmy Sanchez, rescued from a Chilean mine, is now jobless and suffering from post-traumatic stress. More photographs are at nytimes.com/world.
 Claudio Yanez, a survivor with a new home but no job, said, ''We're in really bad shape.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINE WORKERS (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); CELEBRITIES (85%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SICK LEAVE (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (63%); VETERANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



551 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Fuel for the City That Never Sleeps

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
Small coffee chains, benefiting from lower retail rents and a seemingly bottomless thirst for high-end coffee even in a weak economy, are seizing the opportunity to expand in New York City.
''It's crazy how many people are opening coffee shops in the city,'' said Caroline Bell, a co-owner with her husband, Chris Timbrell, of Cafe Grumpy, which recently opened its fourth location, at 13 Essex Street on the Lower East Side.
Among the other homegrown operations are Ninth Street Espresso, with three Manhattan locations; Roasting Plant, with two cafes; Jack's Stir Brew, also with two Manhattan locations; Gregory's Coffee, with four coffee shops; Think Coffee, also with four; and MUD, which started as a coffee truck but has now started opening what it calls MUDspots.
Cafe Grumpy opened its first coffee shop and roastery at 193 Meserole Avenue in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, in 2005 when ''it was like tumbleweeds going down the street,'' Ms. Bell said. They chose the location because they lived there, but also because the landlord was willing to take a risk on a new food business. 
''It's a lot easier now,'' having proved to be a viable business, she said, which has enabled Cafe Grumpy to expand into Manhattan, where it also has a shop in Chelsea.
Blue Bottle Coffee, a San Francisco roaster and brewer, opened its first New York cafe in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in March 2010. ''It's a good time to be in coffee,'' said James Freeman, the owner of Blue Bottle. ''Especially Manhattan is really awakening to some more careful roasting, and interesting flavors and a more professional cadre of baristas making their drinks.''
Blue Bottle, which started as a street cart serving coffee at farmers markets in 2002, is in the process of fitting out two other cafes in New York: one at Rockefeller Center and the other at 450 15th Street in Chelsea. Mr. Freeman said he expects them to open by the end of this year.
Other chains that started elsewhere but are now venturing into the city include Stumptown Coffee Roasters of Portland, Ore., with a cafe in Manhattan and a brew bar in Red Hook (currently closed for remodeling); and Intelligentsia Coffee of Chicago, which has its ''New York Lab'' in Manhattan.
Real estate brokers say that coffee shops need a high volume of customers to be viable, which is why many are aimed at commuters in office neighborhoods. The addition of other products, like baked goods or a variety of drinks or packaged coffee beans and other accoutrements, can help keep coffee shops going in commercial neighborhoods as well as in residential neighborhoods, where retail rents may be lower, but so is traffic.
Much of the recent growth in the high-end coffee market in New York can be traced to Starbucks. New Yorkers were warming to the idea of sophisticated coffee before the Seattle company entered the city in the mid-1990s, with chains like New World Coffee, Cooper's Coffee and Oren's Daily Roast starting to pique the interest of coffee drinkers for a taste beyond watery diner coffee and the traditional ''regular'' cup from street carts, laden with milk and sugar.
But Starbucks saturated the market, opening up its first New York store in 1994 with plans to have 100 outlets in Manhattan within four years. (There are now nearly 200.) That created a huge market of consumers who would no longer tolerate subpar coffee -- but it drove most of the smaller chains out of business.
One chain that held on was Oren's, founded in 1986 by Oren Bloostein, which was forced to scale back a bit, said Jeffrey Roseman, an executive vice president and principal with the real estate service firm Newmark Knight Frank, who has worked with Oren's to find locations.
''I think he got hurt,'' Mr. Roseman said. ''Clearly, he had a bigger chain before Starbucks got here. I think he sort of scaled it down, and only operated one or two stores through Starbucks's height, and recently again picked up and has slowly expanded.'' Oren's now has nine locations in Manhattan, including one that opened last year in Times Square.
''I actually think you started seeing more independent coffee chains as a backlash to Starbucks,'' said Andrew Moger, the chief executive and president of BCD, a real estate and development firm for restaurants that works with small coffee chains such as Joe the Art of Coffee, which has seven locations in New York, and Toby's Estate, an Australian-based coffee chain that plans to open its first New York coffee shop in December on North Sixth Street in Williamsburg.
''As Starbucks kept growing, guys who had a more boutique product or what they considered to be a better product said, 'I could do this,' and they put their plans into action,'' Mr. Moger said.
Dean Rosenzweig, vice president of retail services for the commercial brokerage CB Richard Ellis, said a combination of factors had prompted small coffee chains and independent shops to open.
''The higher jobless rates that came out of a softer market meant that more people were finding their entrepreneurial spirit within themselves,'' Mr. Rosenzweig said. ''The lower rents that came out of it were able to accommodate the model that a lot of these shops felt they needed to open up.''
As well, landlords became more flexible about considering food service businesses and new businesses as tenants -- even ones with a strong odor. ''In a softer economy, landlords have a little bit less leverage in that area,'' he said.
Mr. Rosenzweig, who used to work for Starbucks's real estate department, said that as a landlord representative, he has been getting lots of calls from Seattle's Best Coffee franchisees of late.
''Seattle's Best, which is Starbucks's sister company, has apparently sold a lot of territory in the New York area, so you'll soon start to see Seattle's Best locations popping up,'' he said.
Another large chain entering the New York market is Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf, which is based in Los Angeles and has some 750 shops around the world. It opened a cafe at 1412 Broadway, just a block south of the new Oren's -- which is itself a block south of a Starbucks.
Mr. Rosenzweig is working with Pudge Knuckles, a start-up with a roasting facility in Red Hook that plans to become a chain with perhaps a dozen shops. Pudge Knuckles will open its first shop at 184 Kent Avenue in Williamsburg this fall and is scouring the Upper West Side of Manhattan for its second location.
The company takes pride in its New York City heritage, with names like East Coast Thriller and Five Borough Blend for its coffees, and aims to provide an unpretentious alternative to other overly sophisticated coffee chains, said Ivan Greene, a former professional rock climber who started Pudge Knuckles with Hartje Andresen, a model.
Real estate brokers say there is still plenty of room for competition. ''I would say there's really no place in Manhattan where you're not going to find a competitor,'' said Shelton Franklin, a senior managing director at S. Blair Partners, a real estate services company that works with Gregory's Coffee and other chains. ''There's always somebody a block away, but there still seems to be room for more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inside Cafe Grumpy in Chelsea. The homegrown chain started in 2005 and now has four locations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



552 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Report Predicts New York City May Lose 10,000 Wall St. Jobs

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
8:09 p.m. Updated
A sluggish domestic economy and a debt crisis in Europe continue to create problems in the nation's financial hub, as Wall Street firms prepare to cut thousands of jobs in New York City.
Nearly 10,000 workers in the securities industry in New York could lose their jobs through the end of next year, according to a report issued Tuesday by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, bringing the total cuts for New York in the sector to 32,000 since January 2008. 
''The securities industry had a strong start to 2011, but its prospects have cooled considerably for the second half of this year,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement. ''It now seems likely that profits will fall sharply, job losses will continue and bonuses will be smaller than last year.''
The report, which covers all member firms of the New York Stock Exchange, also said pretax profits earned by securities firms in the first half of 2011 slipped to $12.6 billion, a decline of 10.8 percent from the same period a year earlier. It said that while revenue at securities firms grew by 12.5 percent during the period, expenses made a bigger jump, rising 18.7 percent over the year-ago period.
Despite job cuts and lagging profits at their firms, Wall Street employees who remain employed are doing well. The average salary of a worker in the industry in New York jumped to $361,330 in 2010, a 16 percent increase over the average last year, according to the report. That is more than five times the average private sector salary in New York, which stands at $66,120.
Cash bonuses, which can account for a large portion of a financial employee's annual income, are expected to fall in 2011, though the comptroller's report did not predict the amount of the decline. In 2010, cash bonuses totaled an estimated $20.8 billion.
It is a tumultuous time for the city's securities industry, which includes banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley as well as smaller brokerage firms and research groups. For nearly a month, a phalanx of protesters from the Occupy Wall Street movement has been camped out in Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, demanding investigations of bank executives whose behavior they feel spurred the financial crisis. On Tuesday, protesters marched to the homes of corporate executives including Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorganChase, to protest corporate greed and rising income inequality.
Regulatory changes have also taken a toll on Wall Street. An early version of the Volcker rule, a curb on certain types of trading that would reduce the amount of risk taken on by large firms, was released in draft form Tuesday. In a report issued this week, Moody's said the Volcker Rule, if put in place in its current form, would be ''likely to diminish the flexibility and profitability'' of the largest United States banks.
Anticipating tough times ahead, banks have already begun battening down the hatches. Bank of America, saddled by bad mortgage assets and a flood of legal troubles, announced last month that it planned to cut 30,000 jobs globally in the next few years, and eliminate $5 billion in annual costs by 2014. Credit Suisse, Barclays Capital, Goldman Sachs and other large banks have also announced plans to cut jobs and expenses.
''I think it's reasonable to expect a slow patch,'' said Chris Kotowski, a banking analyst with Oppenheimer. ''People should plan on that, personally and professionally, and city officials should plan on that in terms of their budgeting.''
Wall Street's struggles will most likely be reflected in New York City's tax revenue, as well as in the revenues of nonfinancial businesses, like high-end real estate firms and expensive restaurants, which depend on a steady flow of well-off customers. The comptroller's report estimates that for every job lost on Wall Street, two are lost in the city in other industries, and one additional job is lost elsewhere in the state.
''These developments will have a rippling effect through the economy and adversely impact state and city tax collections,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in the statement. ''As we know, when Wall Street slows, New York City and New York State's budgets feel the impact and that is a concern.''
A further glimpse into the financial health of the industry will come this week, when Wall Street's largest banks begin to release their third-quarter earnings. Many analysts expect the largest banks to post smaller profits than last quarter, and some are even predicting that Goldman Sachs, once the most profitable bank on Wall Street, will post a loss.
''It's entirely possible,'' Mr. Kotowski said of the continued problems anticipated by the comptroller's report. ''It can also all turn on a dime.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas P. DiNapoli 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (84%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); EURO CRISIS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



553 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Owners Sacrificing Games (or Season?) in Bid to Balance N.B.A.

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
The N.B.A., like the N.F.L. before it, is embroiled in a full-scale labor battle, in part because professional basketball wants what football has: competitive balance, a healthy distribution of talent and a belief that every team, regardless of market size, should have the chance to win a title.
The National Football League secured those ideals, grew into a booming $9 billion enterprise, then fought with its players for four months this year over how to divide the riches. The league ultimately got the deal it wanted without harming the season.
The National Basketball Association, which generates a more modest $4 billion, sees a model worth emulating and is willing to sacrifice what is regarded as all but sacred -- actual games -- to get it. 
Late Monday, the N.B.A. canceled the first two weeks of the season, which would have started Nov. 1, after talks over a new collective bargaining agreement collapsed. More games will disappear soon if owners and players cannot resolve a conflict that is philosophical and financial. And the prospect of canceling a full season, once viewed as an extreme bargaining tool, suddenly seems a little more plausible.
N.B.A. owners want strict new controls on payrolls, to close a widening gap between big-market and small-market franchises. They want shorter, smaller player contracts, so teams can overcome injuries and mistakes. They want, in effect, to ensure that the Milwaukee Bucks have as much a chance as the Green Bay Packers of bringing a title to Wisconsin.
Although the N.B.A.'s labor crisis is certainly about money, how best to divide its billions, the negotiations ultimately stalled over broader, systemic concerns.
''Our view is that the current system is broken, in that 30 teams are not in a position to compete for championships,'' Adam Silver, the N.B.A.'s deputy commissioner, said Monday.
The last four N.B.A. championships were claimed by high-spending teams in major markets -- the Dallas Mavericks (2011), the Los Angeles Lakers (2009 and 2010) and the Boston Celtics (2008). All four teams paid what is known as the league's luxury tax -- a penalty levied on the biggest spenders.
Indeed, no team has won an N.B.A. title without paying the tax since the Miami Heat in 2006.
The small-market San Antonio Spurs won four championships from 1999 to 2007, but even they had to exceed the permissible spending limits to secure their final title.
The gap between the title-chasing big spenders and the small-market survivors can most vividly be captured in the payroll spread between the Lakers ($110 million, including taxes, last season) and the Sacramento Kings ($45 million).
Over the last six years, the life of the previous labor deal, the 10 highest-spending teams averaged 48 wins a season. The 10 lowest spenders averaged 34 wins. The gap was more stark last season, with the top 10 spenders averaging 50 wins and the bottom 10 averaging 32.
On average, 8 of the top 10 spenders made the playoffs in the last four seasons, while just 3 of the bottom 10 qualified. Since 2005, every N.B.A. champion has been among the top 10 in payroll.
To tackle what it perceived to be an inequitable and unsustainable system, the N.B.A. first proposed an absolute payroll ceiling for every team, modeled after the N.F.L.'s. But that was rejected outright by the National Basketball Players Association.
With the notion of a firm, enforceable limit on team payrolls off the table, the bargaining positions and rhetoric on both sides have only hardened. The N.B.A. is now proposing an even more punitive luxury-tax system.
For the players, both proposals, and certainly the latest one, would effectively end any notion of a competitive market for players. Under the proposed new tax system, ''Nobody's going to spend,'' said Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players union.
None of this is altogether new. The union has been staving off the N.B.A.'s attempts to impose serious payroll restrictions for three decades. Mr. Hunter has referred to it as ''a blood issue.''
The players do not like the idea of making less money. But they have also challenged the league's argument that stricter limits on player salaries will do anything to promote competitive balance, especially in a sport in which one elite player can completely change the game.
''As athletes, we don't believe that competitive balance is completely decided by an economic system or how much payroll exists on one team or another,'' said Derek Fisher, the president of the players union, and a member of five Lakers championship teams since 2000. ''We believe that there are tons of other variables that impact success on the court.''
Two of the four major North American pro sports leagues have what the N.B.A. is seeking, a true cap on salaries: the N.F.L. and the National Hockey League, which won that concession after canceling the entire 2004-5 season. At the opposite end of the spectrum is Major League Baseball, which has no salary cap but charges a luxury tax on the highest-spending teams.
The N.B.A.'s concerns, however, are more complicated. The league is trying to stabilize struggling franchises in Detroit; Charlotte, N.C.; Sacramento; and New Orleans, among other cities. Owners are haggling with one another over how they split up the league's total revenue among themselves.
But with the players recently earning 57 percent of league revenue -- and the owners claiming losses of $300 million a year -- N.B.A. officials contend that reducing payrolls is the most effective antidote. They want to reduce the players' share of revenues to 50 percent or lower.
N.F.L. players now earn an average of 47 percent of league revenue, but unlike in the N.B.A., no deduction is taken out of the pool before money is split. N.H.L. players earned about 57 percent of league revenue last season.
But again, the union views the parity issue as a red herring, an excuse to shift hundreds of millions of dollars from players to owners. Many economists are unconvinced that payroll controls do much to promote competitive balance.
''The statistical correlation between payroll and win percentage is practically nonexistent,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College, who has studied the issue.
Despite apparent trends in the N.B.A., Mr. Zimbalist said the league did not have a competitive balance problem. He cited the Heat, who have made the league's championship finals twice in six years despite playing in the nation's 16th-largest television market. He also cited the Knicks, who have not won a playoff game in 10 years despite having one of the highest payrolls.
While N.B.A. owners and players debate, and perhaps negotiate, the league's future, the 2011-12 season will keep shrinking.
And so the league, which says it wants to be more like the N.F.L. -- football has had 10 different champions in 13 years -- may wind up emulating a more unfortunate model: the N.H.L., complete with its unprecedented ignominy: a totally lost season.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Commissioner David Stern, above, has announced the cancellation of the first two weeks of the N.B.A. season. Spurs guard Tony Parker will play with the French team ASVEL during the lockout. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID KARP/ASSOCIATED PRESS
LAURENT CIPRIANI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mark Cuban, the owner of the Mavericks celebrating with his players after his team won the N.B.A. title last season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (59%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (54%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (54%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (69%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (69%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (69%); TEXAS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



554 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Textile Makers Struggle to Be Heard on South Korea Free Trade Pact

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There are still a few textile mills in the Carolina Piedmont, making futuristic fabrics that cover soldiers' helmets and the roofs of commercial buildings.
There is also a new threat on the horizon. A proposed free trade agreement with South Korea, which the House and Senate are scheduled to consider this week, would open the American market to a manufacturing powerhouse that has its own high-technology textile industry.
The South Korea deal, and companion pacts with Colombia and Panama, are sailing toward approval. Both political parties are eager to show they are doing something to revive the ailing economy, and there is a broad consensus among the Obama administration, Republican leaders in Congress and many moderate Democrats that the deals will reduce costs for American consumers and increase foreign purchases of American goods and services.
That has left opponents of trade deals, like the textile industry, struggling to be heard. They say past trade agreements, which removed tariffs and other protections for domestic manufacturers, have eroded the nation's industrial strength. The new round of deals will repeat that pattern, they say, allowing companies in South Korea, the world's 14th-largest economy, just ahead of Australia, to flood the domestic market without creating significant export opportunities for American manufacturers. 
''We are very much in favor of global trade, but we're just not about having agreements that are unfair to the U.S. textile industry,'' said Allen E. Gant Jr., president and chief executive of Glen Raven, a family-owned company that employs 1,500 people in the United States. ''The U.S. needs every single job that we can get.''
The Obama administration renegotiated some elements of the deals -- first written by the Bush administration -- to address concerns raised by trade unions and industries. The agreements are a centerpiece of its strategy to increase exports as a driver of faster economic growth, and the White House is pushing to seal the deals in time for a state visit to Washington this week by President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. Votes in both chambers of Congress could come as soon as Wednesday, during Mr. Lee's scheduled visit.
''These agreements will support tens of thousands of jobs across the country for workers making products stamped with three proud words: Made in America,'' President Obama said in a statement last week when he submitted the deals to Congress.
Economists generally predict that free trade agreements benefit all participating countries by creating a larger market for goods and services. But that benefit derives in part from the movement of some activities to the lower-cost countries. In other words, even if the deal is good for the United States as a whole, it is likely to create clear losers.
The government estimated in a series of 2007 studies that the deals would increase annual economic output by up to $14.4 billion, or about one-tenth of 1 percent. Most of that demand would come from South Korea, which would join a short list of developed nations that have free trade pacts with the United States, including Australia, Canada, Israel and Singapore.
But the studies by the United States International Trade Commission found that the deals would cost jobs in some industries, especially the textile industry.
Highland Industries, a Greensboro, N.C., company that employs 680 people at two factories, manufactures a kind of fabric that is used to reinforce the roof coverings on commercial buildings like big-box stores. The massive rolls of fabric can be 12 feet wide and 5,000 yards long.
South Korean companies sell similar material at prices 15 to 20 percent below Highland's. Bret Kelley, a Highland executive, said the company was able to compete on speed and customer service, but he said that could change if the trade agreement passed because the tariff reductions would allow South Korean companies to lower prices by another 10 percent.
''We're quick and nimble, and we forge strong relationships, but what we're selling is a commoditized product,'' Mr. Kelley said. ''Those companies will start looking away for savings of 25 and 30 percent.''
Textile industry executives are particularly incensed that for some products the deal requires the United States to end tariffs more quickly than South Korea.
The administration says there are only about two dozen such cases, and that the deal on the whole favors American companies. South Korea must eliminate tariffs immediately on 98 percent of the roughly 1,500 listed products in the textiles and apparel categories, and complete the process within five years. The United States would eliminate tariffs immediately on 87 percent of listed products, and complete the process within 10 years.
The agreement also allows the textile industry to ask the government to reinstate tariffs if South Korean imports are flooding the market and hurting domestic producers.
''Textiles is a sensitive industry for the United States, and this agreement contains key provisions on tariffs and in other areas that can help keep America's textile industry competitive,'' said Carol J. Guthrie, a spokeswoman for the Office of the United States Trade Representative. ''We realize that just opening markets for our textiles and apparel exporters is not enough, so the export opportunities in this agreement go hand in hand with strong rules of origin and strong textiles enforcement mechanisms.''
But many in the textile industry say the promise of a level playing field offers little comfort, because a deal between a larger economy and a smaller one inherently favors companies in the smaller country, which gain access to the larger market. South Korea's annual consumption of goods and services is less than one-tenth the size of America's.
''There's not a market for our products there,'' Mr. Kelley said. ''We don't have an opportunity.''
All of this is a familiar story for the textile industry. The production of shirts and sheets has shifted steadily from the United States to countries with lower-cost labor. Economists argue that this process strengthens the economy as companies and workers shift to more productive and lucrative kinds of work.
The American Apparel and Footwear Association, a trade group that includes many members who have shifted some production overseas, is among the supporters of the trade deals. The group's president and chief executive, Kevin M. Burke, has said the deal would ''create more jobs here at home,'' because American workers still run textile companies, and design, transport and sell the products.
But from the perspective of the dwindling ranks of domestic manufacturers, putting existing jobs in jeopardy seems like an act of senseless destruction.
''We have felt for many years that our government isn't supporting the idea of keeping manufacturing alive in the United States,'' said Ruth A. Stephens, the executive director of the United States Industrial Fabrics Institute, a trade group that represents companies with domestic factories.
Critics also see little evidence that American workers are moving on to better jobs. The main benefit of the deals, they say, is that corporations can make goods more cheaply for consumption in the United States.
''We don't have a free trade agreement with Great Britain, which could actually buy American products,'' said Auggie Tantillo, executive director of the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition, which opposes the agreements. ''Instead we have this penchant for doing free trade agreements with countries that are low-cost manufacturing centers. Why? Because multinational companies aren't looking at this and saying, 'It will be great to make things in Ohio and send it to South Korea.' No, they're looking at this and saying, 'It will be great to make things in South Korea and send it to Ohio.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Glen Raven's finishing plant in Burlington, N.C. The company opposes the proposed free trade agreement with South Korea. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TEXTILES (92%); FABRIC MILLS (92%); TEXTILE MFG (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); COLOMBIA (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



555 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Fed Oversight of Nonbanks Is Weighed

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Financial companies that are not banks but have more than $50 billion in assets and $20 billion in debt could be regulated by the Federal Reserve and required to meet tougher standards, according to a proposed rule issued Tuesday by the nation's top financial regulatory board.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council voted unanimously to seek public comment on a proposed rule that laid out the standards by which insurance companies, hedge funds, asset managers and the like could fall under stricter regulation. 
Many companies and trade groups lobbied hard for months in hopes that their companies would not fall under the purview of the law, fearing increased regulation. Treasury Department officials declined to estimate how many nonbank financial companies might meet the proposed standards. There are approximately 30 banks in the United States with more than $50 billion in assets.
Several companies are obvious candidates, and a number of them have already submitted comments to the council or had meetings with Treasury Department officials on earlier drafts of the proposed rule.
Among those companies are big insurers like the Mass Mutual Financial Group and Zurich Financial Services; hedge funds like Citadel and Paulson & Company; and asset management and mutual fund companies like BlackRock, Fidelity Investments and the Pacific Investment Management Company.
The new standards and the creation of the oversight council stem from the Dodd-Frank regulatory act, which, in response to the financial crisis, expanded the ability of financial regulators to oversee big companies that could prove to be a threat to the financial system. The council comprises the heads of the major regulatory agencies and other financial industry representatives.
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary and chairman of the council, said the ability to designate so-called nonbank financial companies for heightened supervision was ''one of the most important things that the Dodd-Frank Act did.''
''The United States in the decades before the crisis allowed a large amount of risk to build up in a wide variety of institutions outside the formal banking system,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''When the storm hit,'' he said, ''that put enormous pressure on that parallel financial system, causing a lot of tension and trauma across financial markets, amplifying the pressure on the formal banking system and adding to the broader damage to the economy as a whole.''
Several of the large financial companies that posed the biggest threats during the financial crisis -- like Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and A.I.G. -- were not supervised by a single agency charged with monitoring their financial stability.
Those companies would most likely fall under the newly proposed rules. In addition to applying only to financial companies holding at least $50 billion in assets, the rules would require companies to also meet one of several other characteristics.
These would include having $20 billion in debt, $3.5 billion in derivative liabilities, a 15-to-1 leverage ratio of total assets to total equity, short-term debt measuring 10 percent of total assets or credit-default swaps written against the company with at least $30 billion in notional value.
Companies that meet those standards will then go through another evaluation, where the council will analyze a broad range of industry-specific measures to determine whether significant financial distress at the company could pose a threat to the country's overall financial stability.
If a company passes the first two hurdles, it would then be considered for heightened regulation and be given a chance to rebut the assertions. Finally, two-thirds of the oversight council, including its chairman, must vote to designate the company as systemically important, a finding that must be renewed annually.
Some insurance trade groups, which have lobbied aggressively against having their members subject to more stringent federal oversight, made the case again on Tuesday that they did not threaten the financial system.
''Property casualty insurers are not highly leveraged or interconnected and have a fundamentally different business model than banks, a fact that warrants different regulatory treatment,'' said Ben McKay, a lobbyist for the Property Casualty Insurers Association, a group that counts giants like Ameriprise, Liberty Mutual and Geico as members.
Treasury Department officials, who briefed news reporters on the condition of anonymity after the council's meeting, said the council would be particularly interested in comments on how to treat asset managers who invested money on behalf of others. The comment period will last 60 days.
BlackRock, for example, manages roughly $3.5 trillion for institutional and individual clients. But in a letter filed in February with regulators, it argued that, as an asset manager, it did not own those assets. They are not on its balance sheet, and the company does not employ significant leverage that magnifies the risk of its investments.
The Treasury Department officials said a decision about whether or not companies fell under its proposed rules would be made on a case-by-case basis.
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the council to assess 10 considerations when evaluating a nonbank financial company, and the proposed rule anticipates grouping those into six categories.
Three of those are meant to assess the potential impact of a company's financial trouble on the broad economy. They are size; substitutability, or the degree to which other companies could provide the same service if a firm left the market; and interconnectedness, or linkages that might magnify a company's financial distress and cause that distress to spread through the financial system.
The other three categories seek to measure the vulnerability of a company to financial distress: leverage, or level of borrowing; liquidity risk and maturity mismatch, or its ability to meet short-term cash needs; and existing regulatory scrutiny.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy Geithner, right, and Ben Bernanke at the Financial Stability Oversight Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HYUNGWON KANG/REUTERS) (B1)
 Timothy Geithner is chairman of the financial regulatory panel, which approved new guidance for nonbank financial companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INSURANCE (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (90%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (55%); MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

TICKER: ZURN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



556 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
Paulson Admits 'Mistake' | After making a bad bet on a recovery in the United States economy, John A. Paulson had a simple message on Tuesday for investors in his ailing hedge fund: "We made a mistake."
Mr. Paulson, the money manager who made billions during the financial downturn betting against the subprime mortgage market, is moving to cut leverage in one troubled portfolio, the Advantage Plus fund, which is down 47 percent this year. He also plans to reduce the firm's exposure to the stock market more broadly, according to several people familiar with the matter.
DealBook 
Grouponomics and Zyngametrics, but Few Sound Numbers | After pushing the envelope in accounting and corporate governance, Groupon and Zynga have shown the value of standards enforced by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
When Groupon filed for an I.P.O. in early June, the filing relied on a novel accounting metric: adjusted consolidated segment operating income, which a number of commentators called "income before expenses." Groupon was polishing its numbers by simply taking out things that cost a lot, writes Steven M. Davidoff in his Deal Professor column.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Wall Street Protests Inspire Ire Over Bank Recruiting | The Occupy Wall Street protests have encouraged college students to question schools' on-campus recruiting programs.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
New Analysis Causes H.P. Rethink | Hewlett-Packard is thinking twice about splitting itself in half by selling its personal computer unit, as new analysis suggests the spin-off might be more trouble than it's worth.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Exchanges Get November Deadline to Answer Antitrust Concerns | Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext face a November 8 deadline to respond to the European Commission's "statement of objections," a document released October 5 that outlines European antitrust regulators' concerns about the proposed merger of the two exchanges.
REUTERS
Enstar Said to Be New Transatlantic Suitor | A new suitor has recently joined the ongoing bidding war for reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings. Reuters reports that the fourth interested party is Bermuda-based Enstar Group, a buyer of insurers that have stopped writing new policies.
REUTERS | DEALBOOK
Exelon, Constellation Energy Clear Merger Hurdle | Exelon and Constellation Energy reached a settlement with a market monitor, bringing the energy utility companies a step closer to completing their merger announced in April.
CRAIN'S CHICAGO BUSINESS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Massachusetts Asks Banks for Details on Recruiting | The top financial regulator in Massachusetts is concerned about the staffing services that big Wall Street banks provide to hedge funds.
DealBook 
Goldman's Tax Holiday | British authorities gave Goldman Sachs a nice present, writing off $16 million that the investment bank owed in back taxes. U.K. tax authorities, the Guardian reported, said the deal with Goldman was a "cock-up," or mistake, by officials.
DealBook 
Bank Bonuses Still Riding High | Bonuses still account for the lion's share of senior bankers' pay, according to Basel's Financial Stability Board - which suggests that lenders' complaints that higher fixed salaries prevent them from adapting to market swings may be a lot of hot air, The Financial Times writes.
FINANCIAL TIMES
The Secret Life of a Bank Informant | Bank of New York Mellon's Grant Wilson led a double life, The Wall Street Journal writes.
While he worked on a trading desk for the lender in Pittsburgh, Mr. Wilson was secretly an informant for regulators, and his assistance led last week to lawsuits by the Department of Justice and the New York attorney general against the bank.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street: Woe is Us | The post-crisis party on Wall Street is ending, amid a weakening global economy and a growing European debt crisis, Bloomberg News writes.
But not everyone is sad about banks' diminishing earnings. "I wouldn't shed too many tears for Wall Street," Neil Barofsky, the former inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG
Former Execs Charged With Disguising U.C.B. Losses | Ebrahim Shabudin and Thomas Yu, two ex-executives at San Francisco's United Commercial Bank, have been hit with accusations that they misled various interested parties over U.C.B.'s troubles during the financial crisis, The Financial Times writes.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Disappointing Prospects for Dexia Owners | Dexia shareholders have been left feeling shortchanged by the Belgian government's bailout of the struggling Franco-Belgian bank. Belgium paid $5.5 billion for the lender's healthy domestic business, leaving shareholders with smaller units and a bond portfolio, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Bain Close to Buying Restaurant Chain From Nomura | Bain Capital is nearing completion of a deal to purchase Japanese restaurant chain Skylark from a Nomura subsidiary. The transaction, one of the first big buyouts in the country since the catastrophic earthquake in the spring, is expected to fetch about $3.4 billion for the investment bank.
REUTERS
Russian P.E. Fund Gets $1 Billion From China | The Russia Direct Investment Fund has secured a $1 billion investment from China Investment Corp., that nation's sovereign wealth fund, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG
Indonesia: Asia's Next P.E. Hub? | Indonesia looks to be the latest hot spot for private equity, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing significant funds already raised in the South East Asian archipelago.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Gross Halts Bull Run on Treasury Bond Holdings | PIMCO's co-chief investment officer Bill Gross stopped adding to his Treasury bond holdings in September, after loading up on U.S. debt in recent months.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Huijin Investment Warns Over Bearish Bets | The share purchases in China's four largest banks by Central Huijin Investment, an arm of China's sovereign wealth fund, sent a clear signal to bearish overseas hedge funds that the country's government will combat their bets, Nasdaq writes.
NASDAQ
Innkeepers USA Trial Pushed Back | The trial to determine whether Cerberus Capital and Chatham Lodging Trust were allowed to exit a deal to purchase the bankrupt Innkeepers USA Trust has been delayed until 10 a.m. Wednesday.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
San Miguel to Take Power Unit Public | Philippine conglomerate San Miguel Corp, a household name because of its brewery business, is eyeing an $850 million listing later this year for its power unit SMC Global Power Holdings, provided market conditions improve.
REUTERS
Zynga to Move Beyond Social Network Platform | With its initial public offering still pending, games Web site Zynga is looking to expand beyond social networking sites like Facebook, where its games are currently hosted, The Associated Press writes.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Restoration Hardware Hopes 26th President Will Help Sell Stock | Restoration Hardware is looking to paint itself as a unique investment opportunity in the run-up to its initial public offering, in which it hopes to raise $150 million, Bloomberg News writes. The home decor company is using an unusual pitch man in its fall catalog: Theodore Roosevelt.
BLOOMBERG
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Early Stage Start-Ups Look to Angels | Angel investors may aid start-ups in need of seed funding, as reluctance grows among venture capital firms to offer early-stage investment, according to a report by the Center for Venture Research.
BOSTON BUSINESS JOURNAL
Fund Raises $400 Million for China Ventures | China-focused Northern Light Venture Capital has raised a $400 million fund, which it plans to invest in information technology and clean tech.
MARKETWIRE
Cloud Management Company Raises $81 Million | Cloud-based document manager Box.net has scored $81 million in a round of funding, valuing the six-year old company at $650 million, according to The Financial Times.
FINANCIAL TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Banking Industry Revamp Moves Step Closer to Law | The F.D.I.C. unanimously approved an initial version of the Volcker Rule to restrict proprietary trading by banks. The S.E.C. is scheduled to vote on it on Wednesday.
DealBook 
Wall Street and Washington React to Volcker Rule | A fair amount of change is expected. After all, the 300-page proposal posed hundreds of questions for the public and the financial industry to address.
DealBook 
Ex-Mariner Director Avoids Prison in Insider Case | The former director, H. Clayton Peterson, was sentenced to two years probation with three months home confinement, instead of 12 to 18 months in prison under federal guidelines.
DealBook 
Non-Bank Financial Firms Face New Regulation | Insurance companies, mutual funds and other non-bank financial firms could be regulated by the Federal Reserve under a proposal unveiled on Tuesday, The New York Times reports. The plan by the Financial Stability Oversight Council would affect companies with more than $50 billion in assets and $20 billion in debt, among other metrics.
NEW YORK TIMES
Under Proposal, Many Hedge Funds Free From New Oversight | United States regulators will restrict their oversight of non-bank financial firms only to companies with more than $50 billion in assets, giving a pass to most hedge funds and private equity firms, whose assets typically fall below that level. The decision by the Financial Stability Oversight Council suggests these smaller companies are not considered "systemically important".
FINANCIAL TIMES
Judge Lambasts British Financial Regulator | As a financial regulator, Britain's Financial Services Authority is used to dishing out criticism. The shoe was on the other foot, though, when Judge Sir Ian Burnett rebuked the agency for how it handled its investigation of specialist investment firm Keydata, which folded in 2009.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (88%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); INSURANCE (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); REINSURANCE (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%); SUBPRIME LENDING (56%) Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GROUPON INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (53%); ENSTAR GROUP LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); NYX (PAR) (53%); NYX (NYSE) (53%); ESGR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); BERMUDA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



557 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Chevrolet to Sell Purely Electric Spark Hatchback in U.S.

BYLINE: JONATHAN SCHULTZ


HIGHLIGHT: A purely electric version of the four-door hatchback, which will be offered in 2012 with a gasoline engine, will be made available in low quantities to American customers in 2013. 

 BODY:
General Motors introduced the 2012 Chevrolet Spark subcompact four-door hatchback in Detroit on Wednesday. The news was swiftly upstaged, however, by the subsequent announcement that a purely electric version would be available to American customers in limited quantities in 2013.
The Spark is already sold in some Latin American countries and marketed as the Beat in much of Europe and Asia. G.M. claims to have sold 270,000 Sparks and Beats since the models went on sale in 2010.
For the United States, the gasoline-powered Spark is the latest model from G.M. intended to help the company meet stricter Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standards mandated by the federal government. It will be equipped with a 1.2-liter 4-cylinder engine producing 83 horsepower. Projected fuel economy was not announced.
Meanwhile, the Spark E.V. will be built in low volumes, and sales will be geographically limited. California was the only state identified by name on Wednesday as a rollout market, and exact production targets were not disclosed.
That G.M. would base an E.V. on the platform shared by the Spark and Beat is not unexpected. Earlier this year, G.M. India showed a purely electric prototype of its Beat. Executives at the time stressed that the Beat E.V. prototype was not an outgrowth of the automaker's now-defunct collaboration with Reva, an E.V. manufacturer based in India, but a project pursued "in parallel" with the Reva i, the only mass-produced E.V. built in India. The prototype was said to have a range of 80 miles, competitive with that of the Nissan Leaf.
G.M. did not discuss the projected range or drivetrain specifications on Wednesday for the Spark E.V., but said that the car's battery pack would be sourced from A123 Systems, the Massachusetts-based manufacturer that won a contract to supply G.M. with packs in August.
The E.V., whose pricing is expected to be announced next year, would be the first purely electric passenger vehicle marketed by G.M. in the United States since the polemical EV1, which was discontinued in 1999. The plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt, with its onboard gasoline engine, was promoted by G.M. as a solution to "range anxiety," a phrase the company tried to trademark in 2010, and that was frequently invoked by the company to differentiate the Volt from the purely electric Leaf.
The 2012 Spark will have its public debut at the Los Angeles auto show in November.

        
2011 Mitsubishi i-MiEV Is Coming to North America
        
2011 Coda EV: Easy on the Environment, If Not the Eyes
        
A123 Batteries Slated for Chinese Electric Car
        
Mitsubishi Reveals U.S. i-MiEV Ahead of L.A. Auto Show
        
G.M. Ends Electric Car Partnership With India's Reva

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); TRADE SHOWS (87%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%) A123 Systems; Chevrolet Spark; E.V.; L.A. Auto Show; Reva; Automobiles; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); A123 Systems Inc; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors; A123 Systems Inc|AONE|NASDAQ; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Electric Vehicles; Industry News; New Cars

COMPANY: A123 SYSTEMS INC (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: A123 Systems Inc; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%) A123 Systems Inc; AONE; NASDAQ; A123 Systems Inc; AONE; NASDAQ; General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (65%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



558 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Whose Jobs Are at Risk in Free Trade

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: A report from the Joint Economic Committee of Congress finds that the American workers most likely to be hurt by free-trade agreements are also those likeliest to have a hard time finding new jobs. 

 BODY:
With Congress expected on Wednesday to take up trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama as well as a benefits package for workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition, the Joint Economic Committee of Congress has released a report showing that the workers most likely to be hurt by free trade are the same groups that will have the most difficult time getting new jobs.
 According to the report, "Nowhere to Go: Geographic and Occupational Immobility and Free Trade," the workers most likely to lose their jobs as a result of increased trade are older workers and those without a college education. The most obviously affected industry has traditionally been manufacturing, where workers tend not to have college degrees and an increasing number are 45 or older.
 Particularly in this dismal economy, finding new jobs is a challenge for these workers. According to Labor Department data, the unemployment rate among those with just high school diplomas is 9.7 percent, more than double the rate among those with a bachelor's degree or higher.

 And while the unemployment rate among those 45 to 54 years old is actually lower than the rate for 25- to 34-year-olds, once they are unemployed, older workers tend to spend much longer searching for work. 
 The Joint Economic Committee report reviews data showing that the occupations that are expected to grow the most in the future are also those with a high share of workers who hold bachelor's degrees. According to Labor Department data cited in the report, about a quarter of the job growth between 2008 and 2018 will come in professional occupations, where about 65 percent of current workers hold a four-year degree.
 At the same time, the five slowest growing occupations, including production, maintenance and repair and farming, fishing and forestry, are those that do not tend to require college degrees.
 Because trade can displace entire industries in a specific region, it helps if a displaced worker can move. But the report shows that older people are much less likely to move than younger workers, making it harder for older laid-off workers to find new jobs.

        
City Hall Woes on the Jobs Front
        
What Do You Call This 'Recovery'?
        
A Recession in Our Minds
        
How Many Teachers Went Back to Work?
        
Job Losses Across the Developed World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%) free trade; jobs; Joint Economic Committee; International Trade and World Market; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PANAMA (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



559 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: MDC Looks Abroad for Acquisition

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: MDC Partners is making its first deal involving a public relations agency outside of North America. 

 BODY:
MDC Partners, the agency holding company known for its acquisitive ways, is making its first deal involving a public relations agency outside of North America.
Kwittken & Company, which entered the MDC stable in September 2010, is acquiring 100 percent of Epoch P.R., which is based in London. Financial terms of the deal, scheduled to be announced on Friday, are not being disclosed.
The acquisition will further expand the presence of Kwittken in London, where it opened its European headquarters last year. Kwittken, which is part of the Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners division of MDC, is based in New York.

Epoch P.R. will be absorbed into the Kwittken London office, which will increase the size of the office to about 15 employees from the current staff of four.
Christopher Clarke, who founded Epoch with Sarah Mulder in 2004, will become general manager of the Kwittken London office. He succeeds Caleb Hulme-Moir, who will become a managing director there.
Ms. Mulder also becomes a managing director of the Kwittken London office.
MDC has acquired numerous agencies that specialize in public relations along with the advertising agencies it has bought. Those other public relations agencies include Allison & Partners in San Francisco and Sloane & Company in New York.
MDC says that Kwittken has increased its revenue by 45 percent and its head count by 75 percent since September 2010, when Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal acquired a majority interest in Kwittken.

        
Madison Avenue Turns to Executive Moves and Deals
        
MDC, Often Acquisitive, Makes Another Deal
        
MDC Again Combines Two Agencies
        
Bogusky, Creative Ad Star, Is Leaving Advertising
        
Lexus Invites the Green-Oriented to Take a 'Dark Ride'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%) Kwittken & Company; MDC Partners; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Public Relations and Publicity; Kwittken & Co; MDC Partners Incorporated; MDC Partners Incorporated|MDZ.DB|TORONTO; advertising; Marketing

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: Kwittken & Co; MDC Partners Incorporated

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (59%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (59%) MDC Partners Incorporated; MDZ.DB; TORONTO

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (59%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (59%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (59%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



560 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: From a Brooklyn Street Corner, a Women's Cleaning Cooperative Grows

BYLINE: NADIA SUSSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: From a street corner in Brooklyn to starting their own company, a group of day laborers seek a firmer financial foothold. 

 BODY:
After years of waiting on a Brooklyn street corner trying to land jobs cleaning houses, Teresa Bucio decided there had to be a better way to earn a living.
Like dozens of Latina immigrants, Ms. Bucio, 33, used to stand at the corner of Division and Marcy Avenues in Williamsburg every morning, hoping to be hired.
The intersection - a bare cement triangle overlooking a sunken stretch of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway - is an unusual all-women day labor site where residents of the heavily Hasidic neighborhood find people to clean their homes. Ligia Guallpa, an advocate for day laborers who has assisted women at the site for years, estimated that some 200 women congregated there over any given week, and many of them are illegal immigrants.
But work is by no means guaranteed. Before the Sabbath or Jewish holidays, the demand for cleaners increases; on other days, many women never leave the corner.
So some of them decided they would take matters into their own hands and start a business.
"If they pick you up for two or three hours, that's good," said Ms. Bucio, who moved to the United States from Michoacan, Mexico, with her sister in 1997. "And if not, in any case, you go like you arrived, with empty hands."
Last November, the Bucio sisters founded the Apple Eco-Friendly Cleaning cooperative with a handful of women whom they met at the Williamsburg hiring site. The group advertises on recycled paper and makes its own cleaning products, forgoing harsh chemicals for ingredients like lemon juice, glycerin, borax and fruit oils.
The women taught themselves to make the cleansers and refined their recipes through a combination of Internet research and trial and error.
"When we say we're from a company with a business card, they treat you differently from the time you arrive," Yesenia Bucio, 32, Teresa Bucio's sister, said. "I feel very good, very happy and I have very high self-esteem."
The group is using its environmentally conscious approach to attract customers and also to protect the health of its workers. Yesenia Bucio said she used to suffer migraines from using large quantities of bleach and other chemicals.
The Bucios grew up in rural Mexico, where their father planted corn and milked cows. After Yesenia Bucio's husband left for the United States, they followed, hoping for better work opportunities. The Bucios began their immigrant lives working in clothing factories in New York for roughly $4 an hour. After one factory was cited for labor violations and shut down, they became day laborers in Williamsburg. The work was less steady, but the wages were significantly higher: $8 to $10 an hour.
Still, the instability of the work and the physical toll of long days of scrubbing spurred them to consider alternatives. They began to attend meetings run by Ms. Guallpa, the advocate for day laborers. Ms. Guallpa, who speaks English and Spanish fluently, helped the original group of 13 women establish the cooperative. She recruited volunteers to advise them on various aspects of the business, from accounting to logo design.
Volunteers often attend the Apple cooperative's weekly meetings, which are hosted by Luz Maria Arias, another member, in her Jackson Heights, Queens, apartment. Ms. Arias, 50, who began working as a maid as a child in Mexico, said the cooperative helped the women recognize the value of their own labor. It has also made material improvements in their lives.
"Here it's less time, better paid and healthier in terms of the products," Ms. Arias said. The women now earn about twice as much per hour as they did as day laborers, and negotiate their hours with their clients ahead of time.
During their meetings, the women review their progress and discuss subjects like the most effective bathroom cleaners and the best way to make a bed. They also review their finances; schedule jobs on a rotation, so that each woman gets an equal amount of work; and brainstorm next steps to expand the business.
Progress is slow and sometimes uneven. The original group of 13 members has dwindled to five as some found they could not commit the time required to start a business.
Meanwhile, cleaning opportunities come and go in a highly competitive industry, and the cooperative must compete with larger, more established companies. A promising $5,000 contract to clean the offices of a union in Times Square fell through when the client learned that its building's rules prevented nonunionized workers from cleaning there.
Nonetheless, the cooperative has gained 15 steady clients, and its business is growing.
Although they no longer have to wait for work on the corner in Williamsburg, some of the women go back to talk about the cooperative.
"We see the needs there are at this site," Yolanda Osorno, 48, another founding member of the group, said. Ms. Osorno came to New York from Mexico nearly four years ago, after losing her job as an executive secretary in Mexico City. She left behind two daughters, whose school fees she pays with the money she earns.
The cooperative aims to expand and recruit more women from the Williamsburg hiring site, Ms. Osorno said. It also hopes to establish a mobile day labor center for women, which would most likely be housed in a trailer, where women would be able to receive training and resources about working in the United States.
"We will succeed," Ms. Osorno said. "And we will help the girls of Williamsburg, because that's where we're from. That's where we came out of."

        
Immigrants Play Key Role as City Entrepreneurs, Study Finds
        
Chasing a Name Lost to Time
        
City Plans $10 Million in Cuts to School Cleaning
        
Century-Old Immigration Debate Has Familiar Sound
        
Before Fame, or Jail, Ai Weiwei Was a New York 'Starving Artist'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (90%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CLEANERS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); RELIGION (70%); APPAREL MFG (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (53%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (52%) cleaning; entrepreneurs; immigrants; Cleaning Services; Cooperatives; Immigration and Emigration; New York City; Williamsburg (NYC); Housing & Economy; Immigration; People & Neighborhoods

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (92%) New York City; Williamsburg (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



561 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Whose Jobs Are at Risk in Free Trade

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: A report from the Joint Economic Committee of Congress finds that the American workers most likely to be hurt by free-trade agreements are also those likeliest to have a hard time finding new jobs. 

 BODY:
With Congress expected on Wednesday to take up trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama as well as a benefits package for workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition, the Joint Economic Committee of Congress has released a report showing that the workers most likely to be hurt by free trade are the same groups that will have the most difficult time getting new jobs.
 According to the report, "Nowhere to Go: Geographic and Occupational Immobility and Free Trade," the workers most likely to lose their jobs as a result of increased trade are older workers and those without a college education. The most obviously affected industry has traditionally been manufacturing, where workers tend not to have college degrees and an increasing number are 45 or older.
 Particularly in this dismal economy, finding new jobs is a challenge for these workers. According to Labor Department data, the unemployment rate among those with just high school diplomas is 9.7 percent, more than double the rate among those with a bachelor's degree or higher.

 And while the unemployment rate among those 45 to 54 years old is actually lower than the rate for 25- to 34-year-olds, once they are unemployed, older workers tend to spend much longer searching for work. 
 The Joint Economic Committee report reviews data showing that the occupations that are expected to grow the most in the future are also those with a high share of workers who hold bachelor's degrees. According to Labor Department data cited in the report, about a quarter of the job growth between 2008 and 2018 will come in professional occupations, where about 65 percent of current workers hold a four-year degree.
 At the same time, the five slowest growing occupations, including production, maintenance and repair and farming, fishing and forestry, are those that do not tend to require college degrees.
 Because trade can displace entire industries in a specific region, it helps if a displaced worker can move. But the report shows that older people are much less likely to move than younger workers, making it harder for older laid-off workers to find new jobs.

        
City Hall Woes on the Jobs Front
        
What Do You Call This 'Recovery'?
        
A Recession in Our Minds
        
How Many Teachers Went Back to Work?
        
Job Losses Across the Developed World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%) free trade; jobs; Joint Economic Committee; International Trade and World Market; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PANAMA (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



562 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: For Each U.S. Job Opening, 4.6 Unemployed

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The number of people quitting their jobs in August also rose, which could be a good sign for the economy. 

 BODY:
There were 4.6 unemployed workers for every job opening in the United States in August, according to new data from the Labor Department.
That's a slight tick up from July, because the number of unemployed rose slightly and the number of job openings fell.
The bottom line is, even if all job openings were filled overnight, there would still be about 11 million people who were still out of work.
Total separations from jobs rose a bit, but primarily because people left their jobs voluntarily (as opposed to being laid off or fired). That could be a good sign for the economy, in that it means workers see opportunities to find other jobs they like better and are opening up more positions in the process. Part of the reason employers have been reluctant to hire is that so few people have been leaving their jobs.

        
Afraid to Quit Work, Even if You Hate the Job
        
Nearly 5 Workers for Every Available Job
        
Labor Demand Gets Softer
        
Four Workers for Every Job Opening
        
Job Openings on the Rise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAYOFFS (73%) jobs; JOLTS; quits rate; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



563 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Did the Government Do Something Right?

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: With the help of a tax deduction, Paul Fichter is bringing some of his manufacturing back from China. 

 BODY:
We've just published a small-business conversation with Paul Fichter, a manufacturer who is bringing some of his work back from China. Mr. Fichter's company, Taphandles, makes beer-marketing products. He recently signed a lease to start manufacturing some of those products in Woodinville, Wash., where he expects to employ 150 workers by 2015. Mr. Fichter's decision comports with a trend noted in a Boston Consulting Group analysis released last week that found that manufacturing outsourced to China has begun to return to the United States as the economic advantages have started to shift.
In the interview, Adriana Gardella, asked Mr. Fichter how he was financing his expansion. "Almost entirely with the tax savings we're realizing because of the law Congress passed at the end of 2010, which allows capital investments to be deducted immediately, not over time," he responded. "Last year, my tax liability was more than $500,000. This year, because of instant deductibility, I won't have a tax liability. It's an extremely important deduction. Normally, taxes are pretty punitive on growing businesses."
Is it possible the government did something right? Has your business taken advantage of the same deduction?

        
Going Public Without Going Public
        
My Struggle With Pricing
        
Going Behind the Scenes With Four Owners
        
How We Increased Our Manufacturing Productivity (and Turned a Profit)
        
Further Thoughts on the Very Picky Customer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TRENDS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) manufacturing; small business finance; Economic Conditions and Trends; Factories and Manufacturing; Small Business; Boston Consulting Group; Today's Question

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Boston Consulting Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



564 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Births in a Bad Economy

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: American fertility rates have fallen noticeably in the last few years, a trend that seems to be tied to the poor economy, according to an analysis from the Pew Research Center. 

 BODY:
American birth rates have fallen noticeably in the last few years, a trend that seems to be tied to the poor economy, according to a new analysis from the Pew Research Center.
There were a record number of births just as the United States was falling into recession in 2007, when 4,316,233 babies were born. Since then, the number of births has fallen, with provisional data provided by Pew indicating that births totaled about 4,007,000 last year.
As you can see from the chart above, the birth rate -- that is, the number of births per thousand women ages 15 to 44 -- uncannily tracked declining incomes since the recession began. The connection between economic conditions and birth rates also generally held true at the state level.
States experiencing the largest economic declines in 2007 and 2008, like Florida, were most likely to experience relatively large fertility declines from 2008 to 2009, the analysis finds. States with relatively minor economic declines on the other hand were likely to experience relatively small decreases in the birth rate.

In fact, North Dakota, which had one of the country's lowest unemployment rates in 2008 (3.1 percent) was the only state to see its birth rate increase from 2008 to 2009 (by 0.7 percent).
Birth rate changes varied by demographic group, with Hispanics having the biggest fertility decline from 2008 to 2009 of 5.9 percent. Whites, by contrast, had a 1.6 percent drop in their birth rate. Hispanics still have much higher fertility rates than non-Hispanics, but their fertility rate of 93.3 births per 1,000 women of child-bearing age was at its lowest rate in a decade.
Birth rates fell mostly among younger women and actually rose among older women. That may indicate that cultural factors are at play here as well, and that many people are merely delaying having children as opposed to opting out of parenthood (or having additional children) permanently.
"The recession is more strongly associated with fertility declines among younger women, who presumably have the luxury of postponing fertility until better economic times prevail," the report says, citing survey data Pew has collected separately. "Conversely, older women are less likely to say that they have postponed fertility due to economic declines. They are the only age group that has shown consistent, if not rising, fertility in recent years."
The decline in housing prices in particular may have had a strong effect on families' decisions to have children. A new working paper by economists at the University of Maryland finds that short-term decreases in house prices typically lead to an decline in births among people who own their own homes, and an increase in births among people who don't.

        
Still Playing Catch-Up, Across the Economy
        
On Debt Talks, a Lose-Lose-Lose-Lose Situation
        
After the Fall(s)
        
The Two-Track Recovery (or 'Depression'?)
        
Yes, a Recovery Did Begin

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (95%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TRENDS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FERTILITY RATES (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); HOME PRICES (63%) birth rates; business cycle; Great Recession; Pew Research Center; states; Births; Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



565 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Has More Wireless Devices than People

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: Americans have more devices sucking down data. And the carriers couldn't be happier about that. Revenue from data services rose 21.2 percent from a year earlier. 

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- Watching all those people juggling phones and tablets and e-readers in stores, subways and coffee shops, not to mention the many small shops continually offering new models of phones, you could think that there are more wireless devices than people.
You would be right. Data released this week from CTIA, the wireless industry association, shows that there were 327.6 million wireless customer connections, equal to 103.9 percent of the United States population. This is the first time there have been more customers than people. It is also a 9 percent increase from the 300.5 million connections of a year ago. Not bad, for a country teetering near recession, where about one-third of the population lives with little or no discretionary income.
The math only works because several people have multiple accounts and devices, using one or more cellphones, tablets, wireless hookups for their laptops, readers, and other connections. There were 95.8 million smartphones and wireless PDAs at the end of June, up 57 percent from a year before, and 15.2 million wireless laptops, netbooks and modems, up 17 percent.
When you think about it, it is not all that surprising. The carriers have refused to sell an omnibus data plan that would allow people to connect all their wireless devices to one account. Instead, a customer with an iPhone, iPad and a Kindle can actually have three accounts.
So why do they do it this way? That's easy to answer.
However we are amassing all this stuff, the industry must be grateful for the numbers. The real eye-popping growth was in revenue from data services, which rose 21.2 percent, to $30.1 billion, from a year earlier. The money from hauling data, things like video and texts instead of calls, is now 35.9 percent of total service revenue.
Service revenue rose 5.8 percent, to $83.7 billion, in the first half of 2011, while the average monthly bill fell 0.5 percent, to $47.23. Each device earns less, but there are a lot more devices.
The phone networks carried 341.2 billion megabits of traffic in the first half of the year, according to the survey, up 111 percent from a year earlier. In other words, in the first half of 2011 people sent and received wireless data equal to almost 90 percent of all of 2010. Talk, meantime, may be falling slightly out of fashion, with just 2.251 trillion billable minutes in the 12 months ending June 2011, a drop of 6 billion minutes from the June 2010 figure. The average length of a call was 1.83 minutes, up from 1.62 minutes a year ago and the second consecutive year it has been below two minutes.
As recently as 2007, the average call was near or above three minutes. Who's got time to talk, when there's all that video to watch?

        
Zuckerberg's Unspoken Law: Sharing and More Sharing
        
H.P. Tests Mobile Technology in Fight Against Malaria
        
Sony and Epsilon Agree to Testify Before Congress
        
Who Could Become the Data Sheriff?
        
A Tool to Harvest iPhone Location Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); MODEMS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (72%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%) data; wireless devices; Wireless Communications; CTIA - The Wireless Association; Phones and Mobile Devices; Telecommunications; The CTIA Show

ORGANIZATION: CTIA - The Wireless Association

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



566 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Births in a Bad Economy

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: American fertility rates have fallen noticeably in the last few years, a trend that seems to be tied to the poor economy, according to an analysis from the Pew Research Center. 

 BODY:
American birth rates have fallen noticeably in the last few years, a trend that seems to be tied to the poor economy, according to a new analysis from the Pew Research Center.
There were a record number of births just as the United States was falling into recession in 2007, when 4,316,233 babies were born. Since then, the number of births has fallen, with provisional data provided by Pew indicating that births totaled about 4,007,000 last year.
As you can see from the chart above, the birth rate -- that is, the number of births per thousand women ages 15 to 44 -- uncannily tracked declining incomes since the recession began. The connection between economic conditions and birth rates also generally held true at the state level.
States experiencing the largest economic declines in 2007 and 2008, like Florida, were most likely to experience relatively large fertility declines from 2008 to 2009, the analysis finds. States with relatively minor economic declines on the other hand were likely to experience relatively small decreases in the birth rate.

In fact, North Dakota, which had one of the country's lowest unemployment rates in 2008 (3.1 percent) was the only state to see its birth rate increase from 2008 to 2009 (by 0.7 percent).
Birth rate changes varied by demographic group, with Hispanics having the biggest fertility decline from 2008 to 2009 of 5.9 percent. Whites, by contrast, had a 1.6 percent drop in their birth rate. Hispanics still have much higher fertility rates than non-Hispanics, but their fertility rate of 93.3 births per 1,000 women of child-bearing age was at its lowest rate in a decade.
Birth rates fell mostly among younger women and actually rose among older women. That may indicate that cultural factors are at play here as well, and that many people are merely delaying having children as opposed to opting out of parenthood (or having additional children) permanently.
"The recession is more strongly associated with fertility declines among younger women, who presumably have the luxury of postponing fertility until better economic times prevail," the report says, citing survey data Pew has collected separately. "Conversely, older women are less likely to say that they have postponed fertility due to economic declines. They are the only age group that has shown consistent, if not rising, fertility in recent years."
The decline in housing prices in particular may have had a strong effect on families' decisions to have children. A new working paper by economists at the University of Maryland finds that short-term decreases in house prices typically lead to an decline in births among people who own their own homes, and an increase in births among people who don't.

        
Still Playing Catch-Up, Across the Economy
        
On Debt Talks, a Lose-Lose-Lose-Lose Situation
        
After the Fall(s)
        
The Two-Track Recovery (or 'Depression'?)
        
Yes, a Recovery Did Begin

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (95%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TRENDS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FERTILITY RATES (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); HOME PRICES (63%) birth rates; business cycle; Great Recession; Pew Research Center; states; Births; Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



567 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: To the Barricades

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS AND GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: What's worth giving up to balance the budget and get the U.S. economy moving again? 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, I was sorry to see you didn't have a little bit of sympathy for the Occupy Wall Street protesters.
David Brooks: The only survey I've seen on who these people are wasconducted by New York magazine. Three percent are mainstream liberals of the Barack Obama variety. Twelve percent you might call assertive liberals in the manner of our own Paul Krugman. Roughly 40 percent say they are outside the two parties in the manner of an angrier Ralph Nader, and about 34 percent say there is no moral distinction to be made between Al Qaeda and America. In other words, this is a pretty hard left group.
I actually do think America is morally superior to Al Qaeda. I wouldn't want to associate with a group in which a third disagree. I'm sort of surprised that so many mainstream liberals are completely unbothered by this. I'm also surprised there aren't more liberals like Arthur Schlesinger in days of yore, willing to draw lines between liberalism and radicalism, between themselves and Noam Chomsky. 
Gail Collins: I wouldn't put too much trust in the polls. A wet kid in the street saying America is the same as Al Qaeda would be in the same unwelcome line as the New Hampshire Republican saying he wants Donald Trump for president. This is not a policy position, it's a cry of despair, or a cry for attention or possibly for more sensible questions.
I admit that policy-wise the protesters are not prepared to make hard choices on domestic policy, but really, that's not their job. The mission of a good protest movement is to protest. Also to sleep out in the rain. And sit through long meetings in an attempt to reach consensus on whether or not to hold another meeting. That plus marches pretty much fills up the calendar.
And it's not as if the protesters are the ones whose intransigence is holding things up. I don't see Congress refusing to pass the jobs bill because of fear of the righteous wrath of Occupy Wall Street. They're just offering a balance to all the shrieking on the other side and obviously not enough of one. 
David Brooks: I confess this is why I dislike most protest movements. Occasionally you get an admirable one infused with moral discipline and led by adults (the civil rights movement). But mostly they are occasions for people to luxuriate in their own righteousness without having to deal with the difficulties of actually doing something good. 
Gail Collins: Well, I don't recommend street protests as a life career. But anyone who hasn't marched for something at least once has missed a lot. 
I don't want you to be in despair, however. So let's set a good example for those irresponsible people who actually do have power and are doing nothing but dithering and passing legislation to free the cement plants from the harsh boot heel of the Environmental Protection Agency. I'll give something up that the left wants to protect, and you give up something on behalf of the right. Just as an exercise, to show it can be done. Even though I'm uncomfortably aware that the last time we did this, I immediately gave up controlling the proliferation of nuclear power plants. And then Japan sort of exploded.
David Brooks: I'm game. In fact every time you give up something the left wants I'll try to give up something much bigger that the right wants. Just so long as you understand this whole exercise is in direct violation of the spirit of the Occupy movement. You shouldn't be negotiating with me. You shouldn't even be talking with me.
Gail Collins: First of all, I offer up malpractice tort reform, to the extent of protecting doctors who can demonstrate that they followed the profession's established best practices. Let me say that I don't believe this will do anything much to bring down health care costs. But it's one of those red herrings that allow the other side to dig in their heels and refuse to do anything because tort reform isn't on the table. So there it is. On the table. 
David Brooks: Thanks. I'll give you taxes. We have to raise more in tax revenue if we're going to afford the Defense Department, the welfare state and all the rest. I just want to increase revenue as part of a broad tax reform plan. 
Gail Collins: On Social Security, I'd accept a reform of the automatic cost-of-living increase. The elderly haven't gotten this for a while anyway, but a lot of experts do say that the formula presumes higher increases than retirees actually experience. In return, though, the other side would have to accept an increase in the cap, which now exempts all income over $106,800 from being taxed. 
David Brooks: You want it, you got it. Let's raise the cap on Social Security. Let's make the system less regressive. Let's get rid of the tax exemption on health insurance while we're at it - also regressive.
Gail Collins: Can I offer up oil drilling at the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge? I know it's not exactly economic, but it is a sacred cow. Or moose. I've never been convinced the refuge needed total protection from drillers, but I don't like to mention it too often because I'm holding out for a trade. You praisedMatt Miller for calling for a tax on dirty energy as part of a third-party initiative. I'd so totally trade Arctic drilling for a dirty fuel tax.
David Brooks: Can I offer up a giant infrastructure program? Yesterday I toured the World Trade Center with Chris Ward, head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. For all the tragedy of the site, it was inspiring to see a big project that is finally well managed. It shows that government can build things so long as it takes its time and focuses on efficient execution. 
Gail Collins: Getting pretty tired of giving stuff away O.K., I offer up a reduction in Medicare benefits for people with incomes over $100,000 a year. I know that's not a huge number, but it's a camel's nose that no self-respecting liberal wants to let into the tent. It'd be much more sensible to tax these folks more before they retire, but I know your folks double over in agony every time the word "revenue" comes up, and I want to show that I feel their pain. Even if I don't.
David Brooks: Swell. I'll give you more aid to the states. In this time of economic slowdown, it probably makes sense for the feds to borrow some money and give it to the states to avoid layoffs. So long as we come up with a plan to pay for this in the long run.
Gail Collins: I am totally willing to reduce the corporate income tax if Congress closes an equivalent value in loopholes. I know you are, too. And so is almost everybody in the country who isn't a lobbyist. Maybe we need a protest movement for that. Are you game? Meet you in the park.
David Brooks: I'm game. But we better not show our faces in the park. This is exactly the sort of thing they are trying to wipe out. 

        
Finally Making Sense on Wall Street
        
The Occupy Wall Street Quiz
        
Can You Hear Them Now?
        
Scold Your Own
        
No Food Safety in These Numbers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) budget; cuts and spending; Occupy Wall Street; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Infrastructure (Public Works); Labor and Jobs; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



568 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: The Moneyball of Campaign Advertising (Part 2)

BYLINE: JOHN SIDES


HIGHLIGHT: A political scientist urges voters to be skeptical of claims that certain kinds of political advertisements, whether positive or negative, "work." 

 BODY:
[ here.]
Campaign consultants and political commentators love nothing more than to dissect the messages of campaign advertisements. Again and again, we are told which commercials are "powerful" or "game changers" or "turning points." Everyone knows about the ads that have decided presidential elections: the "daisy ad," "Morning in America," the Willie Horton ad, the various Swift Boat ads, and so on and on.
Or, perhaps we should say: everyone "knows." The power attributed to specific campaign ads is vastly exaggerated. As in "Moneyball," there is much accumulated lore, but little hard evidence. Here are some things for which we do have evidence, thanks to research in political and social science.

4. Negative ads work, except when they don't. It is virtually a truism that negative advertisements make the candidate being attacked look bad, and the candidate doing the attacking look good. In 2008, Mark Penn hewed close to this conventional wisdom, asserting that despite research showing that voters dislike negativity, "clever" negative ads work. He wrote, "When reality and research differ, it is the research that is wrong." Unfortunately, he doesn't really know the reality. The most comprehensive meta-analysis of research into negative advertising found no conclusive evidence that they work:
All told, the research literature does not bear out the idea that negative campaigning is an effective means of winning votes, even though it tends to be more memorable and stimulate knowledge about the campaign.
Take the "daisy ad." Perhaps the most infamous negative presidential ad of all time didn't appear to move either Lyndon B. Johnson's or Barry Goldwater's poll numbers. And don't be fooled by accounts suggesting that a negative ad had some subtle effect on a race -- "changed the narrative" or another similarly squishy phrase. Votes, not narratives, are what wins elections.
5. Campaign ads don't really affect turnout. Negative advertising often elicits loud lamentations. Commentators bemoan a lack of civility and state that voters are sure to be so turned off that some will even stay home on Election Day. These stories are ubiquitous. And although this piece of conventional wisdom may be changing, it's not changing fast enough.
The meta-analysis cited above summarizes the voluminous research on the connection between negative campaigning and turnout. The authors write:
 The research literature provides no general support for the hypothesis that negative political campaigning depresses voter turnout. If anything, negative campaigning more frequently appears to have a slight mobilizing effect.
Indeed, it's quite easy to see why negative advertising might mobilize voters. As some research suggests, negative ads might be particularly effective at conveying the "threat" the other candidate presents, as well as the competitiveness of the election -- both of which could stimulate turnout.
Ultimately, most advertising, whether negative or positive, doesn't affect turnout much. Although nonpartisan get-out-the-vote television ads can increase turnout, actual candidate advertising does not. For example, in the 2000 election, the volume of ads shown in each media market during the closing weeks of the campaign bore little relationship to turnout in those markets. Even "targeting" those ads at particular groups of voters doesn't seem to make a difference. Ads that focus on the issues arguably important to a particular group of voters don't seem to make them vote at higher rates, according to some research conducted by Andrew Karch and myself.
Ultimately, the forms of campaign activity that get out the vote tend to involve personal interactions with voters. Television ads, broadcast to mass audiences in an impersonal fashion, are less potent mobilizers.
 6. There is no secret sauce. Really. But what of the myriad other aspects of television advertising besides its tone? Its focus on policy issues vs. the candidate's biography. Whether the candidate appears in the ad. What other pictures or visual images are used. Whether the ad is in color or black and white. What kind of music is playing. Etc. There is no end of advice given about these aspects. Candidates are told to start off with biographical ads to "introduce themselves" to voters. Candidates parse the benefits of a male voiceover versus a female voiceover. All of this fretting over the subtleties of ads presumes that there is some magical combination of ingredients -- a secret sauce -- that renders them persuasive.
If there is such a sauce, no one has discovered it. There is simply little evidence that any of these subtleties actually change people's minds, or that some combination of features makes ads into "game changers." Moreover, even if there was, there is substantial reason to doubt that such ads would influence an election's actual outcome. Why? Because as soon as the special sauce was discovered, other candidates would use it, too, thereby neutralizing its effect. And even if the ads did have some effect, it would be difficult to identify it amid the effects of other factors -- economic, political, strategic -- that influence elections.
To be sure, these difficulties may one day be surmounted, as researchers develop better tools for examining the effects of specific political ads. (Here is one promising example.) But in the meantime, be skeptical of claims that certain kinds of ads "work." Be particularly skeptical when such claims are being peddled by the people who earn a commission on every ad they run, who naturally have an incentive to overstate the effects of ads and thus their own contribution to the election's outcome. Making and broadcasting these ads may cost campaigns a lot of money. But it doesn't mean they're playing Moneyball.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (93%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); WRITERS (71%) Political Advertising

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



569 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: TV Chat: Ask the Critics

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: With the fall television season shaking out, the critics Mike Hale and Neil Genzlinger are taking your questions. 

 BODY:
Now that viewers have gotten a look at most of the new shows this season, the fall television picture is becoming clearer: sitcoms like "New Girl" (with Zooey Deschanel) and "2 Broke Girls" (with Kat Dennings) have gotten votes of confidence, Tim Allen's "Last Man Standing" earned a spot in the Top 30, while "H8R," "Free Agents" and "How to Be a Gentleman" are out or on their way. Did these shows deserve their fates, for better or worse? Speaking of comedies, HBO unveiled "Enlightened" and came back with a new season of "Bored to Death" and a male breast-feeding scene. Has HBO finally gone too far? The television critics Mike Hale and Neil Genzlinger are taking your questions and comments on comedies and anything else television-related you want to discuss. 
Q.
 Homeland with time brought up to date,
Owes to Manchurian candidate?
Is the theme tired,
And hardly inspired?
Production and cast are first rate.
-- Larry Eisenberg, New York City
A.
 Neil Genzlinger: Picture Carrie enjoying a shower,
When who should walk in but Jack Bauer?
He's been unemployed,
Now he's newly deployed
For a terror-fighting cross-over hour.
 Mike Hale: I thought about answering in limerick form, but I can't come up with any rhymes for Sinatra or Frankenheimer. I certainly don't hold it against "Homeland" that it owes a debt to "The Manchurian Candidate" -- it's consciously drawing parallels between our current political and cultural situation and the early days of the Cold War, something that one of its consulting producers, Henry Bromell, is very adept at. And there are plenty of differences in the way the story is being told. I think the big question is how long they can string out the mystery regarding the Damian Lewis character's real feelings without having it get silly.
Q.
 I thought the pilot of 'New Girl' was one of the worst things I've ever seen on TV. I continued to watch because of the wide acclaim and the subsequent episodes were better; but I'm still not convinced. I like Zooey Deschanel and the basic premise of the show; but I really can't embrace the other actors and/or their characters. To say they are two-dimensional is probably being too complimentary. And the 'jokes' are mostly very tired re-treads. --Larry, The Fifth Circle
A.
 Neil Genzlinger: Yes, there's certainly a lot of retreading going around this fall, especially in the comedies. And a lot of two-dimensionality. I think you've hit on something. The great comedies of the past had characters who were well-enough developed that they could take a detour away from slapstick and into something serious, and the audience would follow. The Edith Bunker cancer episode of "All in the Family," for instance. Hard to imagine most of the fall newcomers pulling that off, though of course it's early yet.
Mike Hale: Oh, there have been much worse things on television than the "New Girl" pilot. That said, I agree with your basic premise and have been saying so every chance I get: there's nothing to the show beyond Zooey Deschanel's charm and timing, and if they don't do something about that it's going to get old really fast. I've had this discussion face to face several times -- when I tell people, look, the writing is flat and none of the three guys is funny, they just plant their feet and shake their heads, because they're so desperate to like the show.
Q.
 I've been watching The New Girl, 2 Broke Girls, and I watched Last Man Standing last night. The New Girl is a little wanna-be Tina Fey and trite but it's cute. Last Man Standing was exactly what you expect: Home Improvement done over (thus entertaining). ... It's sad that Kat Dennings (who is hilarious) is on a show that has such a stereotypical asian character, pretty offensive- resembling Long Duck Dong from Sixteen Candles (when it was still okay to not be at least a little bit PC). It's too bad because the show had a lot of potential! -- Stephanie, Minneapolis
A.
 Mike Hale: This is the price we pay for not protesting the character Ken Jeong plays in the "Hangover" movies and, to a lesser extent, his Senor Chang in "Community." As you laugh, so shall you reap.
Neil Genzlinger: Can't go along with your suggestion that "Last Man Standing" is entertaining. Or that it's "Home Improvement" done over. It's a sort of reverse-"Terra Nova" of "Home Improvement": some of the more Neanderthalic elements of that ancient show (which were funny in the original context) have been transplanted into the now, but somehow the wit and chemistry between cast members did not make it through the portal.
Q.
 NBC does not seem to be improving in the wake of the Comcast takeover. THE PLAYBOY CLUB and FREE AGENTS have already bitten the dust, and though they've just ordered more scripts for both PRIME SUSPECT and HARRY'S LAW, neither is exactly blowing the roof off the ratings. Thoughts? -- MockingbirdGirl, USA
A.
 Mike Hale: It's worth remembering that Robert Greenblatt didn't take over as head of entertainment programming for NBC until March, after the merger had been completed, by which time it was too late for him to be involved in developing any of this fall's shows. His imprint won't really be seen until next year. And I don't think the season will be a complete loss: "Prime Suspect" may turn out to be a pretty good show. Whether the ratings will reflect that, who knows. We're just critics.
Neil Genzlinger: I agree with Mike that "Prime Suspect" is becoming a pretty good show now that it's slowly moving past the creaky old woman-in-a-man's-world stuff. I could see Maria Bello getting an Emmy nomination if the show sticks around. She was pretty funny in the most recent episode, self-consciously trying to soften her rough edges.
Q.
 Considering what HBO has served up over the years, surely you're joking about male breast-feeding being "too far". -- BooksAboutMovies, Toronto, Ontario
A.
 Mike Hale: I think we were joking about that. It's been a few weeks since I watched those "Bored to Death" episodes, but if I'm remembering correctly, you don't actually see Zach Galifianakis's nipples, or at least you don't see them in the vicinity of the baby. It's probably more subversive when his character, Ray, goes to Prospect Park and tries to talk mothers there into nursing the baby for him.
Neil Genzlinger: Um, yes, we're joking about the shocking, SHOCKING! male breast-feeding scene. But I can spin a serious point out of that if you want. Here's why "Bored to Death" and shows like "The League" and "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" on FX are funny where so many of new prime-time comedies aren't. When they do something absurdly outrageous -- male breast-feeding, painting a swastika on your street so the city will finally come fill in that pothole at the end of your driveway in order to cover up the graffiti (a joke from "The League") -- they're doing it organically, and with their audience as co-conspirators. Whereas when Whitney or Kat or whoever on the new shows makes some penis reference, it's with a big neon sign: "Hey, I just said 'penis' on prime-time television! Aren't I cutting-edge?"
Q.
 What series do you sense may be on its last legs excluding those already being promoted as the last season (e.g., Desperate Housewives)? What is the one show no one's watching and should? -- BodegaVendetta, NYC
A.
 Mike Hale: This may be too easy of an answer, but it looks like it's going to be an uphill climb for "Law & Order: SVU" without Christopher Meloni and with less of Mariska Hargitay (if that actually happens). On your second question, I think there are two shows up against each other on Friday nights that deserve bigger audiences than they have, though both have done well enough to ensure their continued survival: "Fringe" on Fox and "Supernatural"on CW. They're pigeonholed as shows for sci-fi/fantasy geeks, but they're better than a lot of crime or medical or family dramas that get more viewers.
Neil Genzlinger: Maybe this is just wishful thinking on my part, but, on the reality side, it feels as if some shows that have wrung their gimmicks dry ought to die soon, just on general principles. "Jersey Shore," for instance. "Project Runway." Probably both will live forever, because they have an established audience that seems unable to get enough of what they do, but I can't watch them anymore; they just feel to me as if they've shown all their tricks. Yeah, I know, heresy. Here's another: "Late Show With David Letterman" has been feeling spent to me for awhile now. Maybe it's time for someone new there?
 I'll stay on the reality side for Part 2 of the question: I continue to be a fan of "The Sing-Off" on NBC and can't understand why so few people watch it while so many were willing to sit through the torture that was the first few weeks of "The X Factor." I guess some people still get a charge out of the phony audition drama and deliberately awful performances that "The X Factor" trafficked in during its first weeks, but to me those audition episodes just seemed like one long cliche. (Now that the show has finally gotten through all that and is down to the real singers, though, I'm actually looking forward to it, and was a bit bummed when it was bumped Wednesday night by baseball.) If your interest is just in the singing, the stuff being done on "The Sing-Off" -- on which NBC risked a big chunk of its Monday night this season -- is much better and more sophisticated than what "The X Factor" serves up.
Q.
 How do you feel about the increasing number of laugh-less "dramedies" on cable -- shows that arguably contain few if any genuine jokes? t's as if awkward squirming has replaced actual laughter as the intention for these series, and 'Enlightened' is yet another entry into a category filled with recent (or not so recent) arrivals like "Wilfred," "Louie," "How to Make It in America," "Weeds", "Big C", "Web Therapy," etc. Personally, I like many of the shows I've listed, but they're a far cry from the zany, classic(al) comedies that I grew up with. -- MC, Los Angeles
A.
 Mike Hale: I like some of them too -- I think "Louie" is one of the best shows on TV, and "Weeds" used to be pretty good. You may unconsciously be falling into the same way of thinking as the television academy, which puts all half-hour shows in the "comedy" category at the Emmys, regardless of their content. There's nothing that says a show should be funny -- or funny ha-ha, in any case -- just because it's a half-hour long.
Neil Genzlinger: The laughless comedy -- an interesting phenomenon indeed. For shows like that, it's all about pitch. I couldn't quite latch onto "Enlightened," though perhaps some people did. I got what it was aiming for, just didn't care. Whereas I love "Wilfred" and "Web Therapy" and some of the others. It's certainly a riskier type of comedy than the old laugh-track sitcom, so kudos to those who are offering these shows.
Q.
 I've only seen Last Man Standing and Suburgatory and they are unwatchable. I'm scared to check out the others. What gives? Why are these alleged comedies so lame? Seriously. -- Ha, Boston
A.
 Mike Hale: And this is where we point out that the premiere of "Last Man Standing" drew nearly 13 million viewers at 8 p.m., with no lead-in, making it one of the strongest debuts of the new season. And it was especially strong in the 18-to-49 demographic. And viewership went up during the second half of the hourlong episode. So for now, at least, it's lame all the way to the bank. 
Neil Genzlinger: How this stuff gets on the air remains a mystery, but I suspect were we to go back through television coverage of the last 40 years, we'd find that it's an annual mystery: every season, some clunkers inexplicably get onto the schedule. I also bet we'd find that annually there's at least one show that is universally panned and yet draws an audience. Beats me why so many people watched "Last Man Standing," but a lot of things that "so many people" do bewilder me -- going to karaoke clubs, texting photos of their private parts, drinking water from a plastic bottle. I'm the problem; I realize that.
Q.
 Why is it that the networks--through the long development process and their summer-long promotion of shows like Playboy Club--can't (or won't?) see what is obvious to most viewers after one or two episodes? (That they are terrible). -- Andrew, New York
A.
 Mike Hale: A lot of terrible shows do fine. Is "Two and a Half Men" better than "The Playboy Club"? No, it's worse. Among the new-season dramas, are "Unforgettable" or "Terra Nova" better than "The Playboy Club"? Not by a whole lot, but they're both getting decent ratings. It's a terribly subjective business, and thank God for that, or we wouldn't have anything to write about.
Neil Genzlinger: Whatever the process is, it certainly seems danged inefficient here in the age when, on a talent-competition show, the national preference can quickly be determined with a simple telephone poll. Gotta be a way to float an advance look at a show and ask the country, "You wanna see any more of this?" Yeah, I know, it's expensive to make even a trailer for a new show. But still. It feels a bit like book publishing: Many books are still produced via a laborious publishing process that takes a year or more, but suddenly here we are in the age of e-readers and insta-books.

        
TV Chat: Ask the Critic
        
TV Chat: Ask the Critics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); COLD WAR (63%) TV Chat; ArtsBeat; featured; Television

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



570 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: I Am Not Your Mirror Image

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Macroeconomics is not a morality play. 

 BODY:
Russ Roberts tries to debunk my explanation of the reasons to believe in a broadly Keynesian view of the world -- and reveals more than he intended.
First, a few points. Roberts treats my statement that we have a lot of evidence on the effects of monetary policy, not so much on fiscal policy, as being somehow slippery. But if you are at all familiar with the reality of macroeconomic policy, you know that there's an obvious reason: monetary policy, which is set by a small committee without the need to pass legislation, is routinely used as a tool for managing the economy; discretionary fiscal policy isn't. The classic Romer and Romer study showing that monetary policy matters was based precisely on the frequent use of monetary policy as a deliberate tool:
The central part of the paper is a study of postwar U.S. monetary history. We identify six episodes in which the Federal Reserve in effect decided to attempt to create a recession to reduce inflation. 
Six such episodes between 1945 and 1990; there is no comparable profusion of fiscal examples.
Roberts also says, well, I choose some studies of austerity, but others reach different conclusions. Yes -- but not all studies are created equal. In fact, the last two years of research on fiscal policy have clarified a lot. 
Initially, a lot of credence was given to work like that of Alesina and Ardagna, which tried to identity changes in fiscal policy using mildly fancy time-series analysis -- and seemed to find evidence of expansionary contraction. But everyone who looked at that work closely quickly noticed that their supposed episodes of both stimulus and austerity didn't seem to correspond at all to known changes in policy. When economists started doing studies using the Milton Friedman/ Romer and Romer mthod --that is, using historical information to identify actual changes in policy -- the results turned clearly Keynesian.
But the main thing wrong with Roberts's piece is the assumption that people like me are just mirror images of people like him:
Krugman is a Keynesian because he wants bigger government. I'm an anti-Keynesian because I want smaller government. Both of us can find evidence for our worldviews. 
This is wrong on multiple levels. First of all, while conservatives see smaller government as an end in itself, liberals don't see bigger government the same way. Think about it: while you often see conservatives crow about, say, reducing discretionary spending as a good thing just because the number is down, do you ever see liberals crowing about a rise in spending, never mind what on? Liberals want government to do certain things, like provide essential health care; the size of government per se isn't the objective.
Second, Keynesianism is not and never has been about promoting bigger government. Outside the US, this is obvious: there have been Tory Keynesians in Britain, the Germans favor both a big welfare state with heavy regulation and balanced budgets. Even in the US, when the political heat isn't so intense, you find conservative economists promoting quite Keynesian views of stabilization policy -- Greg Mankiw is the editor of two volumes on New Keynesian Economics, and the Bushies were quite happy to argue for tax cuts as a way to boost spending.
What is true is that some conservatives in America have always opposed Keynesian thought because they believe it legitimizes an active role for government -- but that's not what Keynesianism is about, and not the reason I or others support it. 
Which brings me to the final point. Russ Roberts may choose his economic views because they support his political prejudices. I try not to. Maybe I sometimes fall short -- but I try to analyze the economy as best I can, never mind what's politically convenient, and indeed to bend over backward to avoid believing things that make me comfortable, to avoid turning everything into a morality play that confirms my political values.
Here's an example: is economic inequality the source of our macroeconomic malaise? Many people think so -- and I've written a lot about the evils of soaring inequality. But I have gone that route. I'm not ruling out a connection between inequality and the mess we're in, but for now I don't see a clear mechanism, and I often annoy liberal audiences by saying that it's probably possible to have a full-employment economy largely producing luxury goods for the richest 1 percent. More equality would be good, but not, as far as I can tell, because it would restore full employment.
So I'm trying to figure this thing out, as best I can. If you're not, we're not in the same business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); LEGISLATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



571 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: A Shelf-Obsessed Writer

BYLINE: JAMI ATTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: I donated the three books I'd written to the cafe's free bookcase, and then I drove myself crazy, waiting to see if anyone would take them home. 

 BODY:
I can't remember when I first became obsessed with the cafe's free bookcase, but sometime in the last year it was suddenly so, and I was regularly making pilgrimages there. I took books home to read, and brought others in to replace them. I noticed which ones were snapped up quickly and which sat for too long. I rooted for the galley of Emily St. John Mandel's smart novel "The Singer's Gun" to find a good home, but felt a little smug about another novel - which sucked up all the press in the universe when it came out, even though it was not its author's finest work, not by a long shot, and one might wonder if perhaps the author was even phoning it in - which no one touched for weeks. 
 But mostly, I waited in both terror and anticipation for my own books of fiction to show up on the shelves someday. Surely someone in the neighborhood had read one of them, I told myself, what with my being a local author and all. But if someone did bring in one of my books, what did it mean? Was it that he had read it once and did not treasure it? Or was it that he had read it and found it so delightful that he wanted to share it with the world? And what would happen next? Would it sit there, gathering dust, or would someone pick it up and take it home? What would I - and my fragile writer's ego - do then? 
Reader, I forced the issue. Two weeks ago, I brought in the three books I'd written. I had to know what would happen. And so, while the feisty protesters occupied Wall Street, and our armed forces served our country so admirably in foreign lands, and all over the world every minute doctors and nurses saved lives, I stalked my own books for five days.
The cafe in question, Cafe Grumpy in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, is home to a youthful, charmingly messy clientele who, laptops in tow, come to work there more often than to socialize. The bookcase is located to the right of the bathroom in the rear of the cafe, near a large machine that roasts the coffee beans. All day long the roaster hums, and it smells fantastic. 
It is no more remarkable than any other bookcase: light brown, unvarnished wood, and each of the four shelves is tall enough to hold hardcover books, with a few inches to spare. There are some random objects on the shelves: two "English as a Foreign Language" cassette tapes and two yoga and pilates VHS tapes. There is also a brown paper bag containing homemade laminated recipe card bookmarks, another brown paper bag of half-used tubes of block printing paint and an old tin tomato can full of zippers.
And then there are the books. Mostly paperbacks. There are a lot of novels, split fairly evenly between mass market and literary fiction, a handful of books of criticism, and some dated political tomes. The gorgeous and moving non-fiction book "Number Our Days" by Barbara Myerhoff sits placidly on the top shelf, knowing that while it is more than 30 years old, it is still a very good book. There's not a lot of poetry, but a beat-up copy of "The Norton Anthology of Poetry" has been there for quite a long time, and I like that it remains as some sort of reference manual for the people waiting in line to use the restroom.
On the first day, I placed my books strategically among these odds and ends. My first book, "Instant Love," a short story collection with the image of a wishbone on a baby blue cover, got what I guessed would be the sweet spot - top row, dead center. I placed the galley version of my first novel, "The Kept Man," which has a pretty but depressed-looking woman on the cover, horizontally across the tops of the other books, on the third row down. And finally, the paperback of my latest book, "The Melting Season," the title in gorgeous, drippy colorful letters, went horizontally across the top row in the left corner. They all had their appeal, but if I had to call it, I'd pick "Instant Love" to go first, if only because people like to read books about love.
While there, I ran into a comedy writer I know, Alex, the author of a book himself, and told him about my project. He admitted that he, too, stalked the bookcase. (And then, like a junkie sharing the name of a dealer, he told me about a different coffee shop nearby that also had a pretty good free bookcase.) Alex said he had recently noticed a friend's memoir on the bottom shelf, and he had taken a picture of it and texted it to her. "'You made the Cafe Grumpy bookshelf," he told her, but she hadn't been that excited about it. "Yeah, I can't tell if it's a good thing or a bad thing," I said. 
Whatever it is, it's the end of the line. Here's what happens when a book comes out: you have a short window of time where everything is just as it should be. Your book is sitting in a beautiful bookstore where someone (usually a blood relation or your college roommate) walks in and is prepared to pay full price for it. And then review copies are on sale for three bucks on Amazon. Not to mention places like the Strand in Manhattan, where I have been unable to shop since 2006, when I saw review copies of my first book on sale within a few days of its release. And now I'd stooped even lower; I was trying to give mine away. So, to recap, the life of a printed book goes something like this: bookstores, Amazon bargains, used bookstores, free bookshelves, landfills. And then, someday, we all die.
The second day at the cafe I noticed a few changes: the addition of three AAA driving guides to various locations in New England, as well as a coverless hardcover copy of "The Little Friend" by Donna Tartt. There had been no movement on my books. I was disheartened. 
To make matters worse, a tight group of worker bees had taken all the tables in the back room, and I was forced into the front. The only place to sit was next to a guy who had noisily pulled out a salad, his own bottle of dressing, a container of hummus, a piece of pita bread and a hunk of sausage, all in flagrant violation of the "No Outside Food or Drinks" sign clearly posted nearby. I was appalled, and left the cafe early. Tomorrow is going to be my day, I told myself.
And it was! When I arrived on the third morning, the copy of "Instant Love" was gone. Oh joy! Validation! I wanted to do victory laps around the cafe. I had successfully given my book away for free.
I moved the copy of "The Melting Season" into the same slot "Instant Love" had occupied. Maybe that really the sweet spot, I thought. Maybe that's precisely where the eye goes. I spotted on the bottom shelf a hardcover copy of Andrea Levy's fine, accomplished novel, "The Long Song," with its cover of twining purple tree limbs. Should I move that copy up a few shelves so that people could see it better? But if I do that, will it distract from my own books? This wasn't a game for me anymore. This was serious. I'd tasted triumph, and I wanted more.
On the fourth day, I got to the cafe early enough to secure a spot facing the bookcase. I watched exactly one woman linger in front of the paper bag of bookmarks while she was waiting for the bathroom, and that was it. Meanwhile more books had arrived, and the shelves were starting to look a little sloppy. Everyone sitting at the table with me had tattoo sleeves and headphones. My high from the day before had completely dissipated. Also, I was starting to hate coffee.
Day five. Nothing good can come from this, I thought. Isn't it better not to know? One day the books will be there, and maybe the next day they will be gone, and there is nothing I can do about it. I've published three books in six years, and there is one thing I have learned: no one can make anyone want to read a book, let alone buy it. The only thing you can do is write the best books you can. 
I chatted with one of the baristas, a pretty young woman who had a piece of lace tied in a bow above her long, wavy hair. She had a steady gaze. I asked her who took care of the bookcase, and she said she did sometimes. She told me that she often cleared out the dime store novels and put them on the sidewalk in front of the cafe. I told her I was writing about the bookcase, and she asked me why I was interested. "Well, it's the end of the line, isn't it?" I said. 
Although it wasn't quite the end of the line, I realized. Someone cared enough to bring them in to the cafe instead of tossing them in the trash. Someone believed these books were worth reading.
I asked her if she ever read any of the books, and she told me she did. She had moved to Brooklyn from another state, and had left all of her books behind. So everything she read came from the shelves in the cafe. She would take the books home, read them, and then bring them back with her when she was done. 
I pictured many things at once after that: being brand-new in New York, struggling to make ends meet, reading a book for company or comfort, tending to a bookcase that was not your own just because you loved books. I remembered the way I felt about books before I ever published one, before I knew anything about what the end of the line meant. I wanted to ask her if she was the one who took the copy of "Instant Love," but I let my ego rest for the first time that week. I sincerely hoped that she had, though. I hoped that she had read it, and liked it, and would bring it back for someone else to read, shelving it with care.

        
A Beginner's Guide to Unemployment
        
Years of Atonement
        
Can You Hear Them Now?
        
William Henry Hurlbert and the 'Diary of a Public Man'
        
Baby Steps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); COFFEE (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); YOGA (50%) books; Coffee; New York City; Writers; Books and Literature; Writing and Writers; Townies

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



572 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Growing Businesses Cut Payrolls, Too

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Even businesses that are growing are not necessarily hiring, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
In many industries, sharp employment cuts during the recession cannot be attributed to a lack of demand.
The standard narrative of the 2008-9 recession and lack of recovery has been that the financial crisis, housing crash, excessive debt and other factors caused consumers to spend less, and businesses to invest less. With the private sector spending less, employers had a hard time selling their products, so they had to lay workers off, cut back on new hiring, or both.
As Paul Krugman put it, "Businesses aren't hiring because of poor sales, period, end of story."
Yes, consumer spending dropped sharply, as did business investment, in 2008 and 2009. But that observation does not tell us whether low employment is a result of low spending or if the reverse is true.

I agree that a few important industries, including manufacturing, home construction and much of the retail sector, did, and still do, suffer from significantly low demand. Those industries vividly illustrate the demand narrative - but they are only a minority of the overall private sector.
The lack-of-demand hypothesis is incorrect for a large fraction of the economy. The chart below illustrates output, revenue and employment from the United States wireless telecommunications industry (that is, cellphones). This industry has clearly not been suffering from a drop in customer demand. 
Since 2007, the number of mobile connections has increased almost 20 percent, to 303 million from 255 million. The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that consumer spending on mobile communications increased 15 percent (not inflation adjusted) over that time frame.
Despite continued demand growth, employers in the wireless telecommunications industry sharply cut employment, at an even greater rate than employers in other industries. After growing 6 percent from 2005 to 2007, the industry's employment had fallen 14 percent by 2010.
There is no way to blame that sharp employment drop on "poor sales."
This pattern is not limited to the cellphone industry. Other industries sharply cut back their employment even while their revenues were falling little, if at all; the employment loss from such industries numbers in the millions.
To examine this issue more systematically, I used the industry economic accounts published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Industries can be examined at varying levels of detail: I divided the private sector into 21 industries and classified them according to the percentage change in their revenue between 2007 and 2009. The table below shows the results.
In two of the industries, education and health care, revenues grew more than 2 percent (in fact, their increase was about 10 percent), and their employment increased, as is shown in the table's top row. Five other industries summarized in the next row had a revenue increase but still sharply cut their employment. Four others had minor revenue declines and cut their hiring sharply, too.
The number of full-time equivalent employees declined 2.2 million in those nine industries combined, even though it seems that those industries had enough sales to maintain their employment. Something else motivated them to cut employment and motivated them to forgo an opportunity to hire some of the many workers laid off by declining industries.
As I wrotebefore much of the employment decline happened, I think "some employees face financial incentives that encourage them not to work, and some employers face financial incentives not to create jobs." 
That's why even growing business are now getting by with substantially fewer employees.

        
When Times Get Tough, the Elderly Work
        
Local and National Stimulus
        
More Evidence That Supply Matters
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
The Minimum Wage and Teenage Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%) busin; Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; demand; employment; layoff; Paul Krugman; recession; supply and demand; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; United States; Today's Economist

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



573 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Perry Fades Into Background in Debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: If Rick Perry's supporters were hoping to see a dynamic, energized Texas governor at Tuesday night's debate, they were disappointed. 

 BODY:
HANOVER, N.H. -- If Rick Perry's supporters were hoping for a dynamic, energized Texas governor to fully engage with the moderators, his rivals and the audience, they were disappointed Tuesday night.
Mr. Perry hardly seized the moment at the Washington Post/Bloomberg News debate to re-energize his flagging campaign. With the exception of one tough question for Mitt Romney on health care, he did not criticize his rivals. Nor did he make a grand case for his presidential ambitions.
Instead, he stuck to a few talking points, repeatedly mentioning energy independence as a sort of catchall answer to whatever was asked.
"You need a president with a plan, which I'm laying out over the next three days, and, clearly, the intent to open up this treasure trove that America's sitting on and getting America independent on the domestic energy side," Mr. Perry said in answer to a question about how he would produce results in Washington.
After three debates in which Mr. Perry had been a central figure, the Texas governor seemed to fade into the background this time. The moderators asked him fewer questions, and he went long stretches without interjecting a thought or trying to steal the spotlight back. His rivals appeared to no longer view Mr. Perry as the looming political threat they once did.
While Mr. Perry has proved his advisers right when they said that he was not an accomplished debater, the truth is that presidential primary campaigns - for all the focus on televised debates and house parties in New Hampshire - are still waged and won with millions of dollars on the airwaves.
There have been almost no television commercials during 2011, but that will change soon. Mr. Perry appears to be pursuing a strategy of getting through the debates with as little political damage as possible so he can survive into the next phase of the campaign.
That next phase will probably play more to Mr. Perry's strengths. He has a campaign war chest that is second only to Mr. Romney's. And he has hired slick ad makers whose hard-hitting Web videos are previews of the kind of highly critical television ads that are expected to flood this state and others early on the primary calendar.
With less than three months until voting is expected to begin, the television campaigns will start soon. But it is unclear how much those ads will change the dynamic in a state like this one, where Mr. Romney holds very large leads in early polls. And Mr. Perry still has to survive the next several weeks, including yet another debate, next week in Las Vegas.
Tuesday's performance suggested that he is unlikely to emerge from the next debate a huge winner.
Mr. Perry's repeated answers on energy independence were the most striking part of his appearance. Asked about his overall economic plan, Mr. Perry said that "clearly, we're going to be focused on initially the energy industry."
To a question about trade with China, he proposed "freeing this country to go develop the energy industry that we have in this country." And he returned to the subject when asked about health care.
"There are people sitting out there around the kitchen table watching TV tonight who are looking for someone to lay out an idea that truly will get this country back working again," Mr. Perry said. "And that's why I lay out, without having any Congressional impact of all, how to get our energy industry back to work, and back to work very quickly."
After being shown a video clip of Ronald Reagan advocating new tax revenues to lower the deficit, Mr. Perry stumbled around for a few moments before settling on his answer.
"What I heard him say there, that he was willing to trade tax increases for reductions," Mr. Perry said in an answer that was a bit confusing to follow. "And I don't think he ever saw those reductions, he just saw the tax increase. As a matter of fact, in his diary, he made that statement that he is still looking around for those reductions."
Mr. Perry did better when it came to defending himself against charges from Michele Bachmann that as governor he increased debt in his state.
"Texas has the second lowest debt per capita in the United States," he said. "I think that is what America is looking for is a president of the United States that understands how to balance budgets, how to deal with the spending issue, and how to get Americans back working again. "
But perhaps the most interesting and potentially damaging moment for Mr. Perry came when Mr. Romney managed to flip Mr. Perry's criticisms back on him.
"You have a million kids uninsured in Texas," Mr. Romney said. "A million kids. Under President Bush, the percentage uninsured went down. Under your leadership, it's gone up."
A few weeks ago, at the earlier debates, Mr. Perry might have lashed back at Mr. Romney or at least tried to vigorously defend his state.
But instead, Mr. Perry let that one slide. The moderators did not follow up. And Mr. Perry did not see fit to interject or interrupt to make points.
Mr. Perry's campaign advisers are probably looking beyond the debates to see how and when their candidate can make his mark. They have scheduled a series of policy speeches that Mr. Perry will soon give.
And they are no doubt looking at ways to lower expectations for Mr. Perry's future debate performances.
After Tuesday night, that might not be such a tough thing to do.

        
Christie's Decision Leaves Republicans With Stark Choice
        
Republican Candidates Start to Engage on Foreign Policy
        
Debate Preview: Six Things to Watch
        
Perry Wrestles With His Political History
        
Romney and Perry Unleash Testy Rivalry at Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%) 2012; campaign ads; debates; fundraising; mitt romney; New Hampshire; primaries; Republicans; rick perry; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Energy and Power; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



574 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Frank Fires Back at Gingrich


HIGHLIGHT: Barney Frank throws the blame for the financial crisis back at the Republicans after Newt Gingrich said he should be in jail. 

 BODY:
Representative Barney Frank will not go quietly.
Mr. Frank, from Massachusetts and the ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, fired back at Newt Gingrich, who said in Tuesday night's Republican presidential debate that Mr. Frank and former Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut should go to jail for their role in the financial crisis. 
"The Republicans - part of the time under Newt Gingrich - ran Congress from 1995 until 2006, the period during which the financial crisis began and then rose to disastrous proportions," Mr. Frank said Wednesday in a statement. "Chris Dodd and I were in the minority during that time, and in fact no remedial action was taken by Congress until we became chairmen of our respective committees in 2007 and 2008."
Mr. Frank was chairman of the House Financial Services Committee during the financial crisis, and Mr. Dodd was chairman of the Senate Banking Committee.
In the debate, Mr. Gingrich called Ben S. Bernanke "a disaster" as chairman of the Federal Reserve and said he and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner should both be fired. He also blamed the federal government for the financial crisis when asked if the Occupy Wall Street protesters had a legitimate grievance.
Then he took it a step further.
"If you want to put people in jail you ought to start with Barney Frank and Chris Dodd," Mr. Gingrich said. "And let's look at the politicians who created the environment, the politicians who profited from the environment and the politicians who put this country in trouble."
When the moderator Charlie Rose gave him a chance to walk back his remarks, Mr. Gingrich pressed onward, calling for a closer look at Mr. Frank's connections with Freddie Mac and Mr. Dodd's connections with Countrywide Financial.
Congress passed the financial overhaul bill known as the Dodd-Frank Act last year, and it was signed into law by President Obama. While several candidates called for the repeal of the law on Tuesday, Mr. Gingrich was the only one to call for criminal action against its sponsors.
In his statement, Mr. Frank said, "Apparently, Newt Gingrich - who considers himself one of the intellectual leaders of the free world - is so embarrassed by the fact that he is running behind Michele Bachmann in Republican polls that it has increased his already well-developed propensity to utter outlandish things."
Mr. Dodd, who is now the chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America, could not be reached for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (51%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Congress; Elections; Political Times

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (65%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (65%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (96%); NEWT GINGRICH (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (53%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



575 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Romney the Inexorable

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican debates have turned into a kind of spring training for the frontrunner. 

 BODY:
I spent last night's Republican debate trying to imagine scenarios where Mitt Romney loses the G.O.P. nomination for president. Rick Perry gets bitten by a radioactive Lincoln-Douglas debate champion and develops a sudden facility for public argument? A long-lost codicil to the Constitution is discovered, in which the Founding Fathers endorse the 9-9-9 tax plan? Utah renames itself the Republic of Deseret and secedes from the Union, forcing Romney to make a tragic choice between his religion and his country? Or, perhaps most unlikely of all - Jon Huntsman is embraced by the Tea Party and pulls off a surprise upset in Iowa?
Those scenarios aside, right now these debates feel like spring training for Romney: A warm-up period for the general election, in which he can stretch and exercise and experiment with his pitches with no fear of suffering a significant defeat. And he's putting it to good use. Here he is last night defending his Massachusetts health care plan against Rick Perry:
... I'm proud of the fact that we took on a major problem in my state. And the problem was that we had a lot of kids without insurance, a lot of adults without insurance, but it added up to about 8 percent of our population. And we said, you know what, we want to find a way to get those folks insured, but we don't want to change anything for the 92 percent of the people that already have insurance. And so our plan dealt with those 8 percent, not the 92 percent.
... I'm proud of what we are able to accomplish. I'll tell you this, though. We have the lowest number of kids as a percentage uninsured of any state in America. You have the highest ... we have less than 1 percent of our kids that are uninsured. You have a million kids uninsured in Texas. A million kids. Under President Bush, the percentage uninsured went down. Under your leadership, it's gone up.
And here he is smoothly deflecting Newt Gingrich's attempt to brand his plan for a middle-class capital gains tax cut as Obama-style "class warfare":
Well, the reason for giving a tax break to middle income Americans is that middle income Americans have been the people who have been most hurt by the Obama economy. The reason that you're seeing protests, as you indicated, on Wall Street and across the country is, middle income Americans are having a hard time making ends meet.
Not only do we have 25 million people out of work, or stopped looking for work, or part-time jobs needing full-time employ, we just saw this week that median income in America has declined by 10 percent during the Obama years. People are having a hard time making ends meet.
And so if I'm going to use precious dollars to reduce taxes, I want to focus on where the people are hurting the most, and that's the middle class. I'm not worried about rich people. They are doing just fine. The very poor have a safety net, they're taken care of. But the people in the middle, the hard-working Americans, are the people who need a break, and that is why I focused my tax cut right there.
These are the answers of a candidate who's less and less worried about paying fealty to conservatism's more self-defeating shibboleths, and more and more comfortable making arguments that will play as well (or better) in a race against Barack Obama as they do in the Republican primary. I don't think that Romney's domestic policy agenda is particularly impressive, but his economic messaging - that the rich are "doing just fine," and we should worry more about the middle class and the uninsured - is very well-suited to a successful center-right general election campaign. If his rivals looked stronger, he might need to play more to "the poor should pay higher taxes and the uninsured should take care of themselves" strand within conservatism. But as it stands, the field's weakness is letting him get away with rhetoric and positioning that should make the Obama White House very, very nervous.

        
How Obama Loses
        
The President's Deficit Plan
        
2012 Takes Shape
        
The Rick Perry Experiment
        
The Huntsman Gambit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%) 2012; Barack Obama; Domestic Policy; Health Care; Mitt Romney; the economy; the horse race

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK PERRY (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



576 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street's 'CrackBerry' Withdrawal

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Research in Motion's BlackBerry outage spread to the United States late Tuesday, leaving Wall Street bankers without their usual e-mail and messaging fix. 

 BODY:
Wednesday had the makings of a relatively good day for Wall Street. The stock market was edging toward positive territory for the year. Europe was hashing out a deal to recapitalize its banks. And enraged protestors remained encamped at Zuccotti Park, letting bank chieftains breath easy in their Park Avenue palaces.
Then disaster struck. A BlackBerry outage, which seemed contained to the places most afflicted by the sovereign debt crisis, had spread to the heart of American capitalism.
Bankers' meetings fell through, when attendees couldn't look up the locations. Employees had to leave voice mail messages. And staff members had to pay attention during meetings, without the usual e-mail distractions.
"I wanted to buy shoes during my lunch break, but now I can't even leave!" exclaimed one senior communications official for a large bank.
It's unclear when Wall Street's woes will end.
Over the last few days, Research in Motion's BlackBerry service has suffered major outages across the world, with disruptions in Asia, Latin America, Europe, Africa and North America. The problem, which seemed to be tied to a failed switch, spread to the United States late Tuesday.
By Wednesday morning, Wall Street was alight with e-mails from I.T. departments, notifying employees of the outage. One from Morgan Stanley, sent at 10:30 a.m., warned that it did not "have an E.T.A." on when the service would resume. In an e-mail to DealBook at 2:30 p.m., RIM said it was still working on resolving the situation.
The pain was even more acute for European bankers, many of whom were facing their second day of disruptions.
One traveling professional from a London-based hedge fund said the outage would force him to shuttle between meetings and his hotel room, in order to check e-mail from his laptop. His firm's I.T. department had advised employees to not send sensitive information via their BlackBerrys, just in case the technical glitch exposes security problems.
"It's potentially dangerous, you don't know what caused this problem and where this information is going," the hedge fund executive said.
While many cursed their beloved "CrackBerrys" on Wednesday, the impact was likely limited at 200 West Street, the headquarters of Goldman Sachs. The firm's chief, Lloyd C Blankfein, a former BlackBerry addict, recently disclosed that he preferred to communicate via voice mail. In the trial of Galleon hedge fund manager, Raj Rajaratnam, Mr. Blankfein told the jury that he did not t religiously check e-mail: "If it's something that sounds like a typical day, I will just let it go and just listen to the voice mail." And he's far from the only one. The love of voice mail has apparently permeated the culture. Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former Goldman chief, was a fan, and Goldman staff members are known for constantly checking voice mail.
The firm was not available for comment.
This week's outage was far from BlackBerry's first. But for Wall Street, it has highlighted the industry's dependence on RIM. The BlackBerry, in its many iterations, has long been part of the traditional banker uniform: Ferragamo shoes, crisp Oxford shirts, Italian wool suits paired with Hermes ties, and yes, a trusty BlackBerry. In fact, many firms issue only BlackBerrys. Barclays Capital, for instance, assigns only Blackberrys, though it can make exceptions, on a case-by-case basis.
Wednesday's hit couldn't come at a worse time for the handset maker. It's fending off a growing crowd of agitated investors, who are calling on the company to explore strategic options. Shares of the company have fallen nearly 60 percent this year. On Wednesday, shares of RIM dipped lower again, falling 1 percent in afternoon trading.
Some firms are starting to wean themselves off the BlackBerry. Credit Suisse for instance has started to use the Good Technology application, which allows employees to securely access e-mail from iPhones.
"Blackberry used to be the only option," said Stephen Hilton, Credit Suisse's Global Head of technology infrastructure services. "We believe that a personal Android or iPhone with a secure container for corporate data provides a very attractive solution for many people to manage both their personal and business mobile requirements."
A few financial professionals even saw a small silver lining on Wednesday. Alex Maloney, a director at Perkins Fund Marketing, a placement agent for hedge funds, said the outage was actually a nice vacation from gloomy e-mails.
"This is not necessarily the worst time for an outage," he said. "It's not like people are getting a whole lot of positive e-mails this day, given the turmoil in the financial markets."

        
Obama to Wall St.: 'Join Us, Instead of Fighting Us'
        
New York May Lose 10,000 Wall St. Jobs, Report Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); JURY TRIALS (60%); DEBT CRISIS (56%) Barclays; BlackBerry; Credit Suisse; Morgan Stanley; Research in Motion; Wall Street; Blackberry (Handheld Device); Wireless Communications; Research in Motion Ltd; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Research in Motion Ltd

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (58%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (50%); HENRY PAULSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



577 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Gotham Extra | In Living Wage Talks, Warfare Trumps Discourse

BYLINE: MICHAEL POWELL


HIGHLIGHT: If the City Council passes a so-called living wage law over the mayor's objections, the speaker and mayor should empower an ideologically balanced panel to examine the law's effects. 

 BODY:
Long ago, I passed boiling summers driving taxis in New York City (an experience that no doubt still summons nightmares for my former passengers, not to mention wayward pedestrians). Other summers, I worked as a doorman, hauling bags and opening doors for royally snooty Park Avenue dowagers.
I was profitably job slumming, much as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg did when he worked college summers as a parking lot attendant. And like him, I had the luxury of a middle-class life, an intact family and a college degree at the end of my labors.
My jobs also came with a union card, which ensured me a salary scale that defined livable.
Many fewer New Yorkers obtain such jobs today. Salary scales have dropped and unions are defanged cats. All of which has been fuel on the fire of the Living Wage movement, which seeks to force developers who receive deep city subsidies to pay a wage of $10 or so an hour. 
In my Gotham column this week, I focused on Kimberly Ortiz, who like many New Yorkers works full time yet lives in poverty. She makes a dollar or two over the minimum wage, and supports a son and daughter, and helps pay the rent on her mother's two-bedroom apartment in the Bronx. Ms. Ortiz sleeps in the living room. 
Mayor Bloomberg, as I noted, views the living wage as a violation of the laws of market fundamentals, among other sins. Our mayor has a sharp mind, but here his rhetoric is pure 1955 retro. "The last time people tried to set rates basically was in the Soviet Union, and that didn't work out very well," he said last week.
All of which called to mind the Grandmaster Flash of Overheated Mayoral Rhetoric, Rudolph Giuliani. In 1996, a coalition of unions and citizens' groups, led by the Industrial Areas Foundation, pressed for the city's first living wage law. Advocates - whom the mayor had worked well with in the past - tried to convince the mayor that city security guards, clerks, food service workers and others who worked on city contracts deserved a wage of $12 per hour.
"They are trying to rebuild the Berlin Wall," Mr. Giuliani said. When the Council passed the bill anyway, the mayor was not amused. These groups, he said, are "sacred cows" and "sacred cows make the best hamburger meat."
That sentiment, no doubt, brought little comfort to the city's growing Hindu population.
So we've established that any and seemingly all discussions of the living wage involve trench warfare and howitzers.
Mayor Bloomberg's aides, to that end, pushed back hard on my Monday column. It was predictable, it was unfair, and Ms. Ortiz might not even qualify for a living wage job.
O.K., cool enough (for the record, I never claimed that Ms. Ortiz would or would not qualify for such a job).
The mayor's aides lean heavily on a report commissioned by the city's Economic Development Corporation, which paid $1 million to Charles Rivers Associates to examine the living wage, now in effect in over 100 cities and towns. The report, long and worth reading, forecast job losses far in excess of those workers who might see a modest rise in wages.
The mayor's aides argue that this firm and its academics are reputable. This is true. It is also true that that the firm's authors have written often and critically of the federal minimum wage, which has been in effect since 1938. It is a perhaps not unreasonable inference that if $7.25 an hour troubles you, a $10 living wage might strike you as catastrophic.
At the least, the absence in their study team of a single academic who harbored pro-minimum wage leanings was striking, as this is a congenitally contentious subject.
Hizzoner's aides also argue that other cities provide an inexact comparison. New York's proposed law would affect some, although not all, of the businesses that roost in malls and industrial areas that are deeply fertilized by city tax and monetary subsidies.
Boston's living wage law, by contrast, affects contractors who do business with the city.
This is a fair point. Laws differ from city to city. The scope of Boston's law, however, is indisputably greater than that now proposed for New York. In Boston, about 21,000 workers are covered by living wage laws. On a per capita basis, that would be the equivalent of covering more than 200,000 New Yorkers.
The Bloomberg administration complains as well that the proposed penalties for noncompliance in New York would be tougher than in other cities. (Aides claim, incorrectly, that the living wage legislation in Los Angeles is voluntary, and that companies can opt out.)
That is a singularly curious criticism: If, for argument's sake, New York City decides to enact a law, why would city officials balk at 100 percent compliance?
For a critique of the Bloomberg consultant's report by a group of liberal economists, see this. They argue that Charles River overstated the impact of the living wage by lumping in tax abatement programs not targeted by living wage legislation. See here, too, an argument for the Living Wage.
In the end, of course, none of this is likely to prove definitive.
Economists love to talk of the science of this and the law of that. I have great respect for the profession and its disputatious ways. But the fact that liberal economists tend to find that the living wage works while conservative economists find that it does not is a tip off that "science" lies beyond their grasp.
Finally, among the many arguments tossed up against the living wage, one surely sticks. The mayor and the business community say that advocates seek to wedge a work-shoe in the door. The goal is to gradually expand the law.
City Council sponsors of the living wage bill complain that this is unfair, but that is almost certainly disingenuous. The living wage movement, much like the minimum wage movement of the 1930s, is a national one, and grows near every year. If New York adopts this latest proposal, we likely will see attempts to broaden it in years to come.
City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn has spoken of this likelihood. All of which perhaps argues that if the council passes a law, and overrides a mayoral veto, the speaker and mayor should empower an ideologically balanced panel to take a careful look at the results a few years down the road.

        
Study Says Higher-Wage Bill for City Projects Would Cost Jobs
        
Like Putin, Like Bloomberg
        
Council Will Not Require Mayor to Disclose Travel
        
Quinn Backs Israel at Ceremony for Kidnapped Soldier
        
Bloomberg Again Defends Handling of Deputy's Arrest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LIVING WAGE (91%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MAMMALS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TRENDS (71%); CATS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); POLITICS (62%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (50%) Christine C. Quinn; Minimum Wage; Bloomberg, Michael R; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Quinn, Christine C; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Law and Legislation; Politics and Government; Wages and Salaries; City Council (NYC); Economic Development Corp; Industrial Areas Foundation; New York City; Gotham Extra

ORGANIZATION: City Council (NYC); Economic Development Corp; Industrial Areas Foundation

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Quinn, Christine C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



578 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Treating Romney Like Nominee - By Attacking

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans are months away from voting, but the Obama campaign already is trying to define Mitt Romney as a shape-shifter. 

 BODY:
Republicans are months away from their first presidential primaries and caucuses, but the Obama campaign already is giving Mitt Romney the nominee treatment -- trying to define him irrevocably as a shape-shifter, with an eye to the 2012 election.
On the morning after Tuesday's debate in New Hampshire among eight Republican rivals, the Obama campaign's senior strategist, David Axelrod, held a conference call for reporters and singled out Mr. Romney. According to Mr. Axelrod, the latest evidence of the former Massachusetts governor's inconsistency was his repeated claims of being an advocate for the middle class, even as he opposed President Obama's proposed extension of a payroll tax cut for about 160 million households.
"I think you have to do more than recite the words 'middle class' to persuade people that you're advocating for them," Mr. Axelrod said.
He denied that the Obama campaign views Mr. Romney as the likely Republican nominee. But in the process, Mr. Axelrod took occasion to review Mr. Romney's record of switching positions over his political career -- on issues including abortion rights, gay rights, a health-insurance mandate, trade with China and environmental policy -- to explain not only why the perceived Republican front-runner has had such trouble solidifying party support, but also why he would have problems in the general election. 
"One of his problems has been that he has not inspired a whole lot of confidence and enthusiasm among Republicans," Mr. Axelrod said. "Because across the political spectrum, people have the same question -- if you are willing to change positions on fundamental issues of principle, how can we know what you would do as president?"
And, he added, "That's the problem if he does become the nominee."
Mr. Romney previously had indicated support for extending the payroll tax relief for workers for another year. But in the debate Tuesday he said otherwise, explaining, "I don't like temporary little Band-Aids." 
Mr. Obama, in the centerpiece of his jobs plan, proposed to extend and enlarge the payroll tax cut so that it would allow the average household to keep $1,500 in 2012, up from $1,000 this year, to spur consumers to spend and thus stimulate the economy. According to Mr. Axelrod, Mr. Romney's 59-point economic plan would mean a $50 tax cut for the typical middle-income household.
The Romney campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Axelrod also said Mr. Romney's strong condemnation of China for "cheating" in how it values its currency, to keep the price of its exports low, conflicts with his past criticism of Mr. Obama as being "protectionist" for acting against China on behalf of American tire producers.
"I will give him this," Mr. Axelrod continued. "He is as vehement and as strong in his convictions when he takes one position as he is when he takes the diametrically opposite position."

        
Christie Endorses Romney Ahead of Debate
        
Huntsman Calls for New Foreign Policy
        
Iowa Republicans Eye Jan. 3 for Caucuses
        
Republican Candidates Start to Engage on Foreign Policy
        
As Christie Passes, Romney Campaigns On

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PROTECTIONISM (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); ABORTION (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); TIRE MFG (50%) 2012 presidential campaign; Republicans; Axelrod, David; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); DAVID AXELROD (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Axelrod, David; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



579 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Treating Romney Like Nominee - By Attacking

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans are months away from voting, but the Obama campaign already is trying to define Mitt Romney as a shape-shifter. 

 BODY:
5:51 p.m. | Updated Republicans are months away from their first presidential primaries and caucuses, but the Obama campaign already is giving Mitt Romney the nominee treatment -- trying to define him irrevocably as a shape-shifter, with an eye to the 2012 election.
On the morning after Tuesday's debate in New Hampshire among eight Republican rivals, the Obama campaign's senior strategist, David Axelrod, held a conference call for reporters and singled out Mr. Romney. According to Mr. Axelrod, the latest evidence of the former Massachusetts governor's inconsistency was his repeated claims of being an advocate for the middle class, even as he opposed President Obama's proposed extension of a payroll tax cut for about 160 million households.
"I think you have to do more than recite the words 'middle class' to persuade people that you're advocating for them," Mr. Axelrod said.
He denied that the Obama campaign views Mr. Romney as the likely Republican nominee. But in the process, Mr. Axelrod took occasion to review Mr. Romney's record of switching positions over his political career -- on issues including abortion rights, gay rights, a health-insurance mandate, trade with China and environmental policy -- to explain not only why the perceived Republican front-runner has had such trouble solidifying party support, but also why he would have problems in the general election. 
"One of his problems has been that he has not inspired a whole lot of confidence and enthusiasm among Republicans," Mr. Axelrod said. "Because across the political spectrum, people have the same question -- if you are willing to change positions on fundamental issues of principle, how can we know what you would do as president?"
And, he added, "That's the problem if he does become the nominee."
Mr. Romney previously had indicated support for extending the payroll tax relief for workers for another year. But in the debate Tuesday he said otherwise, explaining, "I don't like temporary little Band-Aids."
Mr. Obama, in the centerpiece of his jobs plan, proposed to extend and enlarge the payroll tax cut so that it would allow the average household to keep $1,500 in 2012, up from $1,000 this year, to spur consumers to spend and thus stimulate the economy. According to Mr. Axelrod, Mr. Romney's 59-point economic plan would mean a $50 tax cut for the typical middle-income household.
Ryan Williams, a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said in response, "President Obama has turned America into an economic disaster zone. The only question is whether we can make it to the election of 2012 before Obama takes us all the way back to 1929." 
Mr. Axelrod also said Mr. Romney's strong condemnation of China for "cheating" in how it values its currency, to keep the price of its exports low, conflicts with his past criticism of Mr. Obama as being "protectionist" for acting against China on behalf of American tire producers.
"I will give him this," Mr. Axelrod continued. "He is as vehement and as strong in his convictions when he takes one position as he is when he takes the diametrically opposite position."

        
Christie Endorses Romney Ahead of Debate
        
Huntsman Calls for New Foreign Policy
        
Iowa Republicans Eye Jan. 3 for Caucuses
        
Republican Candidates Start to Engage on Foreign Policy
        
As Christie Passes, Romney Campaigns On

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); ABORTION (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (51%) 2012 presidential campaign; Republicans; Axelrod, David; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); DAVID AXELROD (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Axelrod, David; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011



580 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: City Council In Harrisburg Files Petition Of Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
The City Council of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania's financially troubled capital, filed for bankruptcy on Wednesday, a surprise move that was immediately opposed by the mayor and Gov. Tom Corbett, who argued that the filing was illegal under state law.
The filing -- which listed debts in excess of $400 million, largely associated with a failed trash incinerator -- pitched the city into political confusion. A spokesman for Mayor Linda Thompson initially said the filing had not been made. Ms. Thompson later held a new conference denouncing the move as ''a sneak attack,'' according to The Associated Press. 
The Council's decision came Tuesday night in a 4-to-3 vote. Immediately after, a lawyer for the Council faxed a petition for Chapter 9 bankruptcy to the United States Bankruptcy Court and filed it in person at 10 a.m. Wednesday.
The petition was called into doubt almost as soon as it was filed. A spokesman for Governor Corbett, Kelli Roberts, said the filing violated the state's fiscal code, which was amended this year to bar cities like Harrisburg from filing for Chapter 9 bankruptcy.
''For us, this filing is illegal,'' Ms. Roberts said. ''It's very clear.''
Council members like Brad Koplinski, who voted for the filing, acknowledged that it was an extraordinary move, but argued that the petition was legal, and even necessary because the mayor's state-backed plan for financial overhaul had been rejected by the Council. The Council has been locked in battle with Ms. Thompson for months, voting to reject her plan largely on the ground that it demanded too little from creditors.
''Everyone on Wall Street would have been paid, and the taxpayers would be left holding the bag,'' Mr. Koplinski said by telephone.
Ms. Thompson, for her part, has said the Council had no better plan and seemed only to obstruct the path to easing the city's financial distress.
An administrator at the bankruptcy court, Brian Rushow, said the Chapter 9 application would be heard by a judge, but possibly not until next week.
The petition states that the city is ''in imminent jeopardy through six pending legal actions by creditors'' who are associated with the city's failed trash incinerator project, which has saddled the city with debts that are more than quadruple its annual budget. Meeting those legal demands would ''substantially interrupt the city's ability to provide health or safety services to its citizens,'' the petition said. The amount of debt, the petition states, ''is vastly beyond the ability of the city to pay.''
Chapter 9, the part of American bankruptcy code that allows municipalities to restructure their debts, is relatively rare, but a number of cities have been wrestling with it recently. Central Falls, R.I., filed for Chapter 9 this summer, and Jefferson County, Ala., moved to avoid it this month by agreeing with bondholders in a reduction of $3 billion in sewer debt. It is still unclear whether Harrisburg will actually go down that path. Bankruptcy experts say it is onerous and most cities try to avoid it.
But supporters argue that putting the city on the path to bankruptcy would give it more leverage over its creditors, increasing the city's chances for writing down some of its debt.
The move exasperated the business community. ''Just when you think it couldn't get any more ridiculous, it did,'' said David E. Black, president of the Harrisburg Regional Chamber of Commerce and Capital Region Economic Development Corporation. ''It's kind of like Congress enacting a law without the president's signature.''
The filing comes a week before the State Senate is set to consider a bill, already passed by the House, that would authorize Governor Corbett to assume responsibility for most of the city's finances, something that some members of the Council had been trying to prevent. Under that possibility, the city would be placed in a kind of financial receivership and the governor would choose a manager to steer the process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An alternate financial plan is being considered by legislators in the Pennsylvania Capitol in Harrisburg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL SHANKEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (91%); PETITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%)

PERSON: TOM CORBETT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (96%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



581 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: A Contraceptive's Risks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Contraceptive Said to Double Risks of H.I.V.'' (front page, Oct. 4): 
There is a larger context behind the recent finding that the injectable contraceptive Depo-Provera may increase the risk of women and their male partners becoming infected with H.I.V. For over a decade other studies have warned about this connection.
As a matter of precaution, family planning agencies should have started phasing out injectables, especially in communities at high risk of H.I.V., and encouraged other contraceptive methods. Instead, injectables are vigorously promoted in Africa because they are viewed as a cheap, effective way to reduce population growth.
Depo-Provera has other serious risks and adverse effects, including loss of bone density in young women, significant weight gain and increased depression. In the United States it is mainly targeted at low-income women and women of color.
The United States Agency for International Development recently signed a new contract with Pfizer Pharmaceuticals to increase the agency's provision of Depo-Provera by 6.2 million doses. This seems inappropriate when the method's safety is in doubt.
BETSY HARTMANN ALINE GUBRIUM Amherst, Mass., Oct. 6, 2011
Dr. Hartmann is director of the population and development program at Hampshire College. Dr. Gubrium is assistant professor of public health and health sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (88%); CONTRACEPTION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY PLANNING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (82%); PFEB (BRU) (82%); PFE (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



582 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar Begins to Release Some of Its Political Prisoners

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- Myanmar began freeing some political prisoners as part of a broader amnesty on Wednesday, but the initial numbers disappointed many people who had hoped for a more significant gesture of liberalization. 
A complete count was not immediately available, but it appeared that the authorities had released only a small fraction of the 2,000 or so political prisoners that Amnesty International estimates to be behind bars.
The freeing of political prisoners has been an important demand of the United States and other countries as they have sought ways to engage with Myanmar, which has been ostracized with economic and political sanctions.
Officials in Washington said that they would be watching closely to see who was released under an amnesty that Myanmar's government said this week would include 6,300 prisoners of all types.
The pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi told a gathering of supporters in Myanmar's main city, Yangon, that about 100 political prisoners had been freed and that ''we hope many more will be released.''
''As I have often said, the independence of everybody is priceless,'' she said. ''I'm really thankful for the release of political prisoners.''
Amnesty International estimated that 120 political prisoners had been released by late afternoon and called it a minimum first step toward the unconditional release of all such prisoners.
One of those released on Wednesday was a popular comedian named Zarganar, whose arrest in 2008 for criticizing the government drew an international outcry. ''I will be happy and I will thank the government only when all my friends are freed,'' he told reporters in Myanmar.
Bo Kyi, co-founder of the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a group based in Thailand that tracks the plight of jailed dissidents in Myanmar, also said that while the numbers might rise, he, too, was disappointed with the initial releases.
''What they have given us is the same as previous governments,'' he said, referring to the releases of a few political prisoners at moments in the past when the junta wanted to placate or impress foreign governments.
But taken together with a broad range of steps in what was until recently a monolithic and inflexible system, the releases pointed to changes, however deep or cosmetic, unlike any that have been seen for decades.
An election last year that was clearly engineered to favor pro-military parties produced a national Parliament and 14 regional parliaments that represent an array of agendas, some of which seem to be gaining attention now, said David I. Steinberg, a professor of Asian studies at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University.
''It's the most open setup since 1962,'' Mr. Steinberg said, referring to a coup that ushered in a half century of military rule. ''This is the first election where they have actually got people in government in opposition. So we are seeing something important happening.''
Priscilla A. Clapp, who was the top American diplomat in Myanmar a decade ago and is an expert on the country, said she was amazed by the changes in just the last few months.
''I think we are set back on our heels at the speed at which things are happening,'' Ms. Clapp said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMNESTY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); COUPS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (83%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) MYANMAR (98%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



583 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: A Quest for Hybrid Companies That Profit, but Can Tap Charity

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
A new type of company intended to put social goals ahead of making profits is taking root around the country, as more states adopt laws to bridge the divide between nonprofits and businesses.
California is the latest state to adopt a statute permitting what is called flexible-purpose corporations, new companies that are part social benefit and part low-profit entities. The companies are now allowed under laws in more than a dozen states and two Indian tribes.
States like New York and Massachusetts are weighing comparable legislation -- sometimes also known as low-profit limited liability or benefit corporations -- and efforts are afoot to get federal legislation passed that would lower hurdles to the creation of such companies, including a quiet push to get preferential tax treatment for them.
Many of the companies adopting the new structures provide services to nonprofits or are food purveyors that, for example, might employ the disabled. Perhaps the best known is MOO Milk, a group of small Maine dairy farmers who incorporated in Vermont as a low-profit limited liability company, or L3C. 
Unlike a straight nonprofit group, these businesses can tap into conventional capital markets as well as philanthropy.
And unlike a for-profit corporation, the structure allows investors to emphasize the social mission over making money, and to be supported by money from foundations.
''Directors of many companies want to do the right thing, but they're so busy looking at how not to get sued for failing to maximize profits that they don't think more aspirationally about creating a great company that helps the planet and people and also makes money,'' said R. Todd Johnson, a lawyer who is among the leaders of the movement to get states to create new legal structures.
Not surprisingly, the trend concerns some executives in charge of charities, who fear increased competition for philanthropic dollars fueled by the enthusiasm for the new formats among foundations, many of which have been lobbying hard for new laws to foster this type of business.
Many corporate lawyers and regulators also are wary. The California Department of Corporation and the business law section of the corporations committee of the state bar association opposed the law, as have similar organizations in other states. They argue that the new structure holds an inherent conflict of interest and that it will lower standards of fiduciary duty.
''There's a marketing job that's being done that somehow these are special,'' said William Callison, a lawyer in Colorado whose opposition helped defeat efforts to pass the hybrid incorporation law in his state. ''I think they're anything but special.''
But proponents, like Jed Emerson, a pioneer in developing what he calls ''blended value investing,'' contend that many of the new organizations do not fit neatly into what have been the accepted models. ''Over the last 10 to 20 years, there's been a host of organization managers and financial investors saying the traditional approach to investing in this bifurcated framework of for-profit and nonprofit doesn't capture what they're really trying to achieve,'' Mr. Emerson said. ''Alternative structures like this allow investors and entrepreneurs to pursue social and environmental impact together with various levels of financial performance.''
One such company, ardentCause, was about to become a traditional limited liability company, or L.L.C., when Michigan began allowing businesses to incorporate as L3C's.
The company, founded by three veterans of the automotive industry, develops database software to help nonprofits manage and share information. ''It was perfect for us because we believe businesses and nonprofits alike should run sustainably and profitably, but the main motive for us was the mission,'' Rosemary Bayer, ardentCause's chief executive, said of the L3C structure.
Its first product was introduced last fall with support from the First Step Fund, a pool of venture capital drawn from Detroit foundations as part of a broader effort to reinvigorate the city's economy. Ms. Baer said ardentCause was currently negotiating with another foundation for investment.
Critics like Mr. Callison wonder why a new category of businesses is necessary at all, given that foundations can make investments in standard forms of business. A foundation may, for example, offer a business a loan at a below-market interest rate to spur it to build a factory in an economically blighted neighborhood.
Also, more and more companies are incorporating socially beneficial activities into their core business strategies without abandoning their primary goal of making profits. Hewson Baltzell, who oversees product development for MSCI, a data and research firm known for its global indexes, said that while the number of financial investors deploying what were known as ''environmental, social and governance'' screens to assess investments, ''most investors are still not into the double-bottom line.''
''Do you need it? No, not necessarily,'' Mr. Baltzell said. ''The argument for it is probably that when push comes to shove over certain issues, if a social mission was baked into the bylaws, it would be legitimate for a board to allow, in certain cases, that mission to trump shareholder value.''
But charities seeking ways to reduce their reliance on donated dollars are increasingly developing programs that could be mistaken for businesses, and for them, such a structure solves a number of headaches. It gives them access to the capital markets, allows them to pay higher compensation levels and provides potential exit strategies, all unavailable to nonprofits.
''It expands the tool kit social enterprises can use to scale and increase the good they do,'' said Matt Bannick, managing partner of the Omidyar Network, the organization managing the eBay founder Pierre Omidyar's commercial and nonprofit investments, which pushed for the new California law.
One of the nonprofits it has supported, Global Integrity, is likely to spin off a project called Foglamp, which it started, into a flexible-purpose company. Foglamp has a worldwide network of 1,200 people that provide research, for example, on a country's political stability. Hedge funds, institutional investors and global companies pay market rates for the information.
Nathaniel Heller, Global Integrity's managing director, said that on at least two occasions recently, it had to turn away venture capitalists wanting to invest in Foglamp. ''As a nonprofit, we have no equity to offer them,'' Mr. Heller said.
That means, he said, that Foglamp can only grow ''arithmetically, not geometrically.'' He added, ''As a nonprofit, we don't have extra cash sitting around that would allow us to hire five more employees for Foglamp.''
Frontline SMS took another route and organized as a community interest company, or C.I.C.'s, the British corporate designation that has inspired many of the new hybrid in corporation laws passed in the United States. C.I.C.'s are required to have a social purpose like health care and their assets are locked, limiting what can be distributed to shareholders, employees and others.
Frontline was spun out of Kiwanja.net, a California nonprofit whose mission is to develop technology to help nonprofit groups deliver services. ''The value proposition is inherently defined in terms of social benefit,'' said Sean Martin McDonald, executive director of Frontline. ''That reduces a lot of concerns you might normally have from traditional financial investors by making it clear that your mission is primarily social, not primarily about making profits.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about low-profit limited liability corporations, a new company structure that combines elements of nonprofit and commercial entities, referred imprecisely to one such company, MOOMilk. While the company, whose full name is Maine's Own Organic Milk Company, is incorporated as a low-profit limited liability corporation, or L3C, in Vermont, it is based in Augusta, Me. It is not ''of Vermont.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nathaniel Heller, center, of Global Integrity, with Stacy Donohue and David Cohen. (B1)
 Nathaniel Heller, of Global Integrity. It may spin off a flexible-purpose company called Foglamp. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) MAP: New Companies Combine Profit and Charity: Some states have adopted laws allowing for a new type of company that combines aspects of nonprofit and for-profit corporations. California and Vermont have each adopted two forms of the law. (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (68%); DAIRY FARMING (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL INTEGRITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011



584 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: A News Story Is Growing With 'Occupy' Protests

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- Splashed across the front page of the local newspaper here on Tuesday was the story of a 24-year-old Occupy protester named Keith Cuesta. He was not in New York, where some have been living in a park near Wall Street for nearly four weeks, but about 1,000 miles away in Tampa, where a small group of self-described ''99 percenters'' have decided to camp out in solidarity.
Mr. Cuesta told the newspaper, The St. Petersburg Times, that he had never participated in a protest before. The reporter, John Barry, said he was drawn to Mr. Cuesta because the young man had ''finally found something he cared enough about to sleep on a sidewalk.'' 
As the Occupy Wall Street message of representing 99 percent of Americans has spread across the country, news media coverage of the Occupy movement has spread, too, to the front pages of newspapers and the tops of television newscasts. Coverage of the movement last week was, for the first time, quantitatively equivalent to early coverage of the Tea Party movement in early 2009, according to data released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center.
The data confirms an anecdotal sense that the movement, which slowly gained speed last month, entered the nation's collective consciousness for the first time last week, when President Obama was asked about it at a news conference and when national television news programs were first anchored from the Wall Street protest site.
In the first full week of October, according to Pew's Project for Excellence in Journalism, the protests occupied 7 percent of the nation's collective news coverage, up from 2 percent in the last week of September. Before then, the coverage was so modest as to be undetectable by the Project for Excellence in Journalism, which surveys 52 news outlets each week to produce a weekly study of news coverage.
The study released Wednesday showed that cable news and radio, which had initially ignored the protests almost entirely, started to give the protests significant coverage last week, often with a heavy dose of positive or negative opinion attached.
Some protesters have assailed news media outlets for scoffing at their leaderless nature and lack of agreed-upon goals, but some have also carefully courted attention from those outlets.
''They insist on their story being told, even as they're arguing about just what the story should be,'' the media critic James Rainey wrote in Wednesday's Los Angeles Times. Mr. Rainey suggested that reporters resist the urge to make instant judgments about what the protests represent: ''Sometimes the most courageous story is the one that says: I haven't seen this before. I'm not sure what it means. I don't have a clue where it is going.''
The protests are beginning to show up in polling data. In a Pew poll conducted from Oct. 6 to 9, 17 percent of respondents said they followed news coverage of the protests very closely last week; an additional 25 percent said they followed the coverage fairly closely. The state of the United States economy remained a much more closely followed story, as it has been for years. The poll had an overall margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Michael Dimock, an associate director of the Pew Research Center, said the polling found a generational gap in attention toward the protests. When those polled were asked which story they followed the most closely last week, 11 percent of those ages 18 to 29 cited the protests, while 3 percent of those ages 65 and older did the same.
''Even so, it's not a top story among young people,'' Mr. Dimock noted. The death of Steve Jobs last week was a top story.
It was the mass arrests of protesters in New York that initially led to much of the protest coverage last month. But now the grievances and experiences of protesters are getting plentiful coverage. ''Protesters Fan Out'' read a headline in the newspaper Florida Today on Wednesday. ''Wall Street Protesters Target Fancy N.Y. Homes'' read another in The Palm Beach Post.
The spike in news media coverage is significant because, among other reasons, it may lend legitimacy to the movement and spur more people to seek out protest information on Facebook and other Web sites.
On those sites, organizers are sharing information about a swarm of protests that will take place on Saturday in cities across the country. In central Florida, for instance, hundreds of people have electronically signed up on Facebook for weekend events in St. Petersburg, Tampa, Sarasota, Orlando, and other locales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Newseum in Washington displayed front-page protest coverage on Wednesday in Jackson, Miss., and Kansas City, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWSEUM INC (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (89%); JACKSON, MS, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



585 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Dip in Birth Rates Reflects Recession, Report Suggests

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Birth rates in the United States declined sharply during the recession, according to a report by the Pew Research Center released Wednesday. The analysis, based on data from all 50 states and the District of Columbia, suggested women were putting off having babies while the economy was weak. 
According to preliminary data from 2010, the rates dropped to 64.7 births per thousand women ages 15 to 44, from 69.6 births per thousand women in 2007, the year the recession began. The report analyzed data from the National Center for Health Statistics and the Census Bureau.
The link between financial distress and lower rates of childbirth surfaced clearly in the regional data. North Dakota, with one of the lowest unemployment rates in 2008, about 3 percent, was one of two states to show a slight increase in its birth rate from 2008 to 2009. The other was Maine.
In all other states, birth rates declined, said Gretchen Livingston, the lead author of the report. Arizona had the deepest decline in its birth rate, down by 7.2 percent.
It is not unusual for child bearing to fall in times of economic hardship. Birth rates dropped 26 percent in the decade that ended in 1936, Ms. Livingston said, during one of the greatest economic calamities in American history. But the rates later pick up. ''What people seem to be doing is not so much deciding not to have children, but postponing until things start to recover,'' she said.
She pointed to the difference in age groups as evidence: the only one whose birth rate rose was the 40- to 44-year-olds, who could not delay childbirth any longer. All other age groups' rates fell.
Hispanics, who were particularly hard hit by the recession, saw the largest decline, with birth rates down 5.9 percent from 2008 to 2009. Rates dropped by 2.4 percent among black women and by 1.6 percent among white women, the report found.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (93%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WOMEN (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HISTORY (73%); CENSUS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



586 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Alabama: Hispanics Stage Protest

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
At least a half-dozen poultry plants shut down or scaled back operations on Wednesday and many other businesses closed as Hispanics skipped work to protest the state's tough immigration law. The work stoppage was aimed at demonstrating the economic contribution of Alabama's Hispanic immigrants. It was unclear exactly how widespread the protests were, but a poultry company spokesman said that officials were reporting unusually high absences at plants in the northeast of the state, where much of Alabama's chicken industry is based. In the northeastern town of Albertville, numerous businesses along Main Street that are owned by Hispanics had the lights off and signs that said they would not be open. Mexican restaurants, a bank that caters to Hispanics, small grocery stores and supermarkets were all shuttered. The law allows police officers to detain people indefinitely if they are suspected of being in the country illegally, and it requires schools to check the status of new students when they enroll. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POULTRY (90%); POULTRY PROCESSING (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); STRIKES (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); EDUCATION LAW (88%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (85%); RESTAURANTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



587 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Told To Vacate Park, For Its Cleaning

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Responding to what he called unsanitary conditions at the private park in Lower Manhattan that has served as home base to the Occupy Wall Street protest for more than three weeks, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said Wednesday night that protesters would be made to leave temporarily as the property was cleaned in stages. 
Mr. Bloomberg made the announcement after visiting the park, Zuccotti Park, for the first time and informing the protesters in person that the cleaning would begin Friday, a statement released by his office said.
He cited deteriorating sanitary conditions as the reason the park's owner, Brookfield Properties, wrote a letter to the city conveying its concerns ''about its inability to clean the park and maintain it in a condition fit for public use.''
''The mayor is a strong believer in the First Amendment and believes that the protesters have a right to continue to protest,'' Caswell Holloway, the deputy mayor for operations, said in a statement.
''At the same time, the last three weeks have created unsanitary conditions and considerable wear and tear on the park. This situation is not in the best interests of the protesters, residents or the city.''
Beka Economopoulos, an organizer with Occupy Wall Street, said that the protesters ''have worked vigorously to ensure safe and sanitary conditions, and we recognize the importance of being good neighbors.''
She said she feared that the cleaning was a pretext ''to end this occupation.''
The Bloomberg administration added that the park would be cleaned in stages, and that the protesters would be allowed to return to the areas that had been cleaned, ''provided they abide by the rules that Brookfield has established for the park.''
It was not immediately clear how long the cleanup would take.
While Mr. Bloomberg has said that he believes the protesters have a right to congregate and that they would not be removed by the police if they obeyed the laws, he has also been critical of the protesters' message, and the disruption they have caused in Lower Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%)

COMPANY: BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (57%)

TICKER: BPO (TSX) (57%); BPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



588 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Bond Informs Visit by South Korean Leader

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- During the state visit of South Korea's president, Lee Myung-bak, which began on Wednesday, he will be feted at a White House state dinner, invited to speak to a joint session of Congress, and treated to a road trip to Detroit with President Obama, where the two leaders plan to tour a General Motors factory together.
For a visiting head of state, the carpet does not get any redder than that, and it suggests that there may be something mysterious and powerful at play between Mr. Obama and Mr. Lee: Call it a presidential man-crush.
In some respects, South Korea's leader has had the kind of presidency Mr. Obama would like to have. With less strangling government debt and a society driven to transform itself, Mr. Lee has been able to pursue much of the ''win the future'' agenda that Mr. Obama has advocated. 
South Korea, as Mr. Obama likes to point out, has a high-speed broadband network that reaches more than 90 percent of its people, compared with only 65 percent of Americans. A larger percentage of South Koreans than Americans graduate from college. At a time when financially struggling school districts here are laying off teachers, South Korea is hiring them to satisfy demanding parents.
Indeed, Mr. Obama cites Mr. Lee's views on education in virtually every speech he gives these days, including one in Pittsburgh on Tuesday, holding up the hard-working Asian country as an example of what the United States needs to do.
The two men have also built a personal bond, with Mr. Lee being among a small number of leaders -- Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey are two others -- who seem to have pierced the president's reserve. At a lunch in Seoul in November 2009, which aides said left a lasting impression on Mr. Obama, the two spent much of the time discussing education, not least the role of parents in schooling their children.
''They were discussing the place that teachers occupy in society,'' said Daniel R. Russel, Mr. Obama's senior adviser on Asia at the National Security Council, who attended the lunch. ''It was very human, and it's not that common at those rarefied heights of leadership to have a real conversation in which the two people can speak openly about an issue they both care deeply about.''
Mr. Obama, Mr. Russel said, also admires Mr. Lee for his determination to thrust South Korea into the front rank of world powers and his approach to his erratic neighbor, North Korea. While he has taken a tougher line than his predecessors toward the government in Pyongyang, he has also stopped short of military action in response to a string of belligerent acts, including the torpedoing of a Navy ship and the shelling of a South Korean island.
During that tense period, Mr. Obama met Mr. Lee at a Group of 20 meeting in Toronto, and declared afterward, ''My personal friendship with President Lee and my admiration for him continues to grow.''
That kind of emoting is rare for the president, who has been criticized in some quarters for not having the chummy relationships with foreign leaders that George W. Bush and Bill Clinton did. And the two leaders are not an obvious match: although both rose from modest circumstances, Mr. Lee, 69, spent most of his career running a construction and engineering conglomerate.
''When Obama deals with foreign leaders, he tends to be very transactional,'' said Victor D. Cha, a former Asia adviser in the Bush administration who teaches at Georgetown University. ''But there's absolutely no doubt that he has really connected on a personal level with this leader.''
Mr. Lee has not had an easy time as president, but, of course, that may only serve as more common ground for the two presidents. Elected in late 2007 by a wide margin, with a pledge to revive the economy, he cast himself as a pragmatist -- which is perhaps Mr. Obama's favorite self-description.
Yet Mr. Lee has had an even rockier time in the public-opinion polls than Mr. Obama, first struggling with street protests over imports of American beef and, to this day, fending off criticism of his business ethics. Mr. Lee, however, does not have to worry about re-election; by law, South Korean presidents are limited to a single five-year term.
A long delay by the United States in ratifying a free trade agreement has also frustrated South Korea and prompted a tense exchange between Mr. Lee and Mr. Obama at a Group of 20 meeting in Seoul in 2010. The Senate and House both voted to approve the pact Wednesday. (While the votes were being cast, Mr. Lee and Mr. Obama were dining together at a Korean barbecue restaurant, Woo Lae Oak, in the Virginia suburb of Tysons Corner.)
The Obama administration, however, has steadfastly supported Mr. Lee in his dealings with Kim Jong-il, the North Korean leader, helping South Korea with an investigation of the sinking of its ship, the Cheonan, and staging naval exercises in the Yellow Sea to deter the North. And the administration took an immediate liking to Mr. Lee's harder-line approach to the government in Pyongyang, which made offers of aid contingent on Mr. Kim's abandoning his nuclear ambitions.
''The feeling was, 'This guy's approach on North Korea is right on the money, and it's our approach,' '' said Jeffrey A. Bader, who was Mr. Obama's chief adviser on Asia at the National Security Council until April.
American officials said this support has allowed Mr. Lee to respond to North Korea sternly but without risking a deadly confrontation. Indeed, after quiet pressure from American diplomats, Mr. Lee has dropped a demand that North Korea apologize for sinking the Cheonan -- which it denies doing -- as a condition for any new talks between the North and South.
Now that those talks have resumed, the United States has also reopened contact with North Korea. A second meeting between the administration's special envoy, Stephen W. Bosworth, and a senior North Korean official is likely to be announced after Mr. Lee's visit, administration officials said.
Few Americans hold out much hope for a breakthrough with North Korea. But that will have little impact on Mr. Lee's visit, which, coming on the heels of Congressional approval of the trade pact, will serve as a reminder of the alliance between the United States and South Korea.
''Lee Myung-bak is the most dynamic leader in that region right now,'' said Michael Green, a senior Asia adviser in the Bush administration. ''There's a lot to like about him for the White House.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); BROADBAND (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (53%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



589 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Talks Tough to Iran, but Holds Off on Harsher Moves

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and HELENE COOPER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Washington, and Neil MacFarquhar from the United Nations.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite issuing harsh calls for Tehran to be held to account, the Obama administration does not plan to shift its policy of pressure on the Iranian government after disrupting what officials said was a plot to assassinate a Saudi Arabian envoy in Washington, administration officials said on Wednesday.
The combination of tough talk and cautious action underscores the administration's limited options toward a hostile government with which the United States has had little contact for more than three decades. 
While the United States has mounted an intense diplomatic effort with its allies and other countries to condemn Iran, it has limited its punitive measures to imposing sanctions on an Iranian airline and five senior officials of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps who are accused of having links to the men accused in the plot.
More dramatic responses -- like military action or a blockade of Iran's oil industry -- are unlikely because of resistance from Russia and China, concerns about destabilizing a region already convulsed by turmoil, and fears of driving up oil prices and rattling the global economy.
The White House has not ruled out additional sanctions or taking action at the United Nations, where the American ambassador, Susan E. Rice, briefed members on Wednesday about the details of the investigation. Administration officials said they believed there was potential for intensifying pressure on Tehran, though they did not offer details.
''There's sufficient space to continue enlarging that pressure with like-minded partners without jeopardizing the base line of unity in the international community,'' Benjamin Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said in a telephone interview.
Whether the administration can do enough to satisfy a growing chorus of hawks on Capitol Hill is not clear. In an interview on Wednesday, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida and chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, called on the administration to be much tougher.
''There are a lot of steps that we can immediately take that would serve as a wake-up call to the international community,'' said Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, adding that the United States should expel Iran's ambassador to the United Nations and shut down its interest section in Washington. She also suggested taking aim at Russian and Chinese companies and individuals that do business with Iran's energy industry.
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen is sponsoring legislation in the House that would make it harder for Mr. Obama -- or any American president -- to waive sanctions passed by Congress on the grounds that the measures would damage American national interests.
If Ms. Ros-Lehtinen's measure becomes law, Mr. Obama could be forced to take action against Iran's oil and gas industry, even if he deemed that such steps could hurt the economy, alienate allies or otherwise harm the United States. Ms. Ros-Lehtinen said her bill had more than 300 signatories, and that news of the accusations had garnered additional supporters.
Separately, Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, took to the Senate floor on Wednesday evening to also call for stronger sanctions against Iran.
The administration has resisted such calls because it would almost surely lose what guarded support it has received from Russia and China for its sanctions program against Iran, which is supported by the United Nations Security Council.
''If they start to do what those people on the right want them to do, they're going to lose what they've got now,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran expert with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
At a time when Europe is in a debt crisis and the United States is teetering on the edge of another recession, administration officials say they are reluctant to take steps that would drive up oil prices and disrupt global markets.
Some analysts noted that the campaign of pressure had already done considerable damage to Iran's economy.
''Iran's economic ties with Europe have been essentially severed, its leadership role in the region is being challenged by Turkey, its ties with Russia are tense,'' said Ray Takeyh, an Iran expert at the Council of Foreign Relations. ''It is a country that is experiencing quite a bit of isolation, and even ostracism.''
If anything, the allegations have given the Treasury Department the chance to pursue its sanctions against the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which the United States says has seized control over large parts of the Iranian economy. Officials said they would use the details of the investigation to discourage countries like Turkey, Russia and China, which still do business with elements of the Guard Corps.
''We want to go to Ankara or Moscow or Beijing and say, 'These are who these guys are; they hired a Mexican drug cartel to kill a Saudi ambassador. You can't allow these guys into your country, or do business with them,' '' said a senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk publicly.
For now, the administration is devoting much of its energy to mobilizing an international front to further isolate Iran. The State Department called in the diplomatic corps for briefing, while Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton worked the phones to rally Russia, Mexico and other crucial countries to condemn Iran. ''This kind of reckless act undermines international norms and the international system. Iran must be held accountable for its actions,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a Washington conference.
At the United Nations, Ms. Rice was joined in her briefings by her Saudi counterparts as well as by experts from the Justice Department and other agencies. The United States had no immediate plan to ask the Security Council to take any action, diplomats said. Although the council sometimes issues statements about terrorist attacks, doing so in an individual case would be highly unusual.
Several countries, while noting that they had no reason to doubt the allegations, said they were eager to ask questions. ''It looks rather bizarre, but I am not an expert,'' Vitaly Churkin, the Russian ambassador to the United Nations, said before he was briefed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An anti-American mural in Tehran on Wednesday. Some American lawmakers are seeking a new, tougher stance against Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MORTEZA NIKOUBAZL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); INTERVIEWS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); RELIGION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN (79%); SUSAN RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); CHINA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



590 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Obama Camp Attacks Romney as Flip-Flopper

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
5:51 p.m. Updated Republicans are months away from their first presidential primaries and caucuses, but the Obama campaign already is giving Mitt Romney the nominee treatment -- trying to define him irrevocably as a shape-shifter, with an eye to the 2012 election.
On the morning after Tuesday's debate in New Hampshire among eight Republican rivals, the Obama campaign's senior strategist, David Axelrod, held a conference call for reporters and singled out Mr. Romney. According to Mr. Axelrod, the latest evidence of the former Massachusetts governor's inconsistency was his repeated claims of being an advocate for the middle class, even as he opposed President Obama's proposed extension of a payroll tax cut for about 160 million households. 
''I think you have to do more than recite the words 'middle class' to persuade people that you're advocating for them,'' Mr. Axelrod said.
He denied that the Obama campaign views Mr. Romney as the likely Republican nominee. But in the process, Mr. Axelrod took occasion to review Mr. Romney's record of switching positions over his political career -- on issues including abortion rights, gay rights, a health-insurance mandate, trade with China and environmental policy -- to explain not only why the perceived Republican front-runner has had such trouble solidifying party support, but also why he would have problems in the general election.
''One of his problems has been that he has not inspired a whole lot of confidence and enthusiasm among Republicans,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''Because across the political spectrum, people have the same question -- if you are willing to change positions on fundamental issues of principle, how can we know what you would do as president?''
And, he added, ''That's the problem if he does become the nominee.''
Mr. Romney previously had indicated support for extending the payroll tax relief for workers for another year. But in the debate Tuesday he said otherwise, explaining, ''I don't like temporary little Band-Aids.''
Mr. Obama, in the centerpiece of his jobs plan, proposed to extend and enlarge the payroll tax cut so that it would allow the average household to keep $1,500 in 2012, up from $1,000 this year, to spur consumers to spend and thus stimulate the economy. According to Mr. Axelrod, Mr. Romney's 59-point economic plan would mean a $50 tax cut for the typical middle-income household.
Ryan Williams, a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said in response, ''President Obama has turned America into an economic disaster zone. The only question is whether we can make it to the election of 2012 before Obama takes us all the way back to 1929.''
Mr. Axelrod also said Mr. Romney's strong condemnation of China for ''cheating'' in how it values its currency, to keep the price of its exports low, conflicts with his past criticism of Mr. Obama as being ''protectionist'' for acting against China on behalf of American tire producers.
''I will give him this,'' Mr. Axelrod continued. ''He is as vehement and as strong in his convictions when he takes one position as he is when he takes the diametrically opposite position.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); ABORTION (66%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (51%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID AXELROD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



591 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deals Pass Congress, Ending 5-Year Standoff

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congress passed three long-awaited free trade agreements on Wednesday, ending a political standoff that has stretched across two presidencies. The move offered a rare moment of bipartisan accord at a time when Republicans and Democrats are bitterly divided over the role that government ought to play in reviving the sputtering economy.
The approval of the deals with South Korea, Colombia and Panama is a victory for President Obama and proponents of the view that foreign trade can drive America's economic growth in the face of rising protectionist sentiment in both political parties. They are the first trade agreements to pass Congress since Democrats broke a decade of Republican control in 2007.
All three agreements cleared both chambers with overwhelming Republican support just one day after Senate Republicans prevented action on Mr. Obama's jobs bill. 
The passage of the trade deals is important primarily as a political achievement, and for its foreign policy value in solidifying relationships with strategic allies. The economic benefits are projected to be small. A federal agency estimated in 2007 that the impact on employment would be ''negligible'' and that the deals would increase gross domestic product by about $14.4 billion, or roughly 0.1 percent.
The House voted to pass the Colombia measure, the most controversial of the three deals because of concerns about the treatment of unions in that country, 262 to 167; the Panama measure passed 300 to 129, and the agreement concerning South Korea passed 278 to 151. The votes reflected a clear partisan divide, with many Democrats voting against the president. In the Senate, the Colombia measure passed 66 to 33, the Panama bill succeeded 77 to 22 and the South Korea measure passed 83 to 15. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, voted against all three measures.
The House also passed a measure to expand a benefits program for workers who lose jobs to foreign competition by a vote of 307 to 122. The benefits program, a must-have for labor unions, passed with strong Democratic support. The Senate previously approved the measure.
Proponents of the trade deals, including Mr. Obama, Republican leaders and centrist Democrats, predict that they will reduce prices for American consumers and increase foreign sales of American goods and services, providing a much-needed jolt to the sluggish economy.
''At long last, we are going to do something important for the country on a bipartisan basis,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader.
However, Mr. Obama's support for the measures has angered important parts of his political base, including trade unions, which fear job losses to foreign competition. Many Democrats took to the House floor Wednesday to speak in opposition to the deals.
''What I am seeing firsthand is devastation that these free trade agreements can do to our communities,'' said Representative Mike Michaud, a Maine Democrat who once worked in a paper mill.
Both chambers raced to approve the deals before a joint Congressional session Thursday with the South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak.
The revival of support for the deals, originally negotiated by the Bush administration five years ago, comes at a paradoxical political moment, when both conservative Republicans and the Occupy Wall Street protesters have taken antitrade positions, albeit for different reasons. In a debate among Republican presidential candidates Tuesday night, Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, accused China of manipulating the value of its currency to flood the United states with cheap goods, while populist sentiment on the left opposes the trade agreements because of the potential for American job losses.
Mr. Obama cited similar concerns in criticizing the agreements during the 2008 presidential campaign, but he later embraced the deals as a key part of his agenda to revive the economy. To win Democratic support, the White House reopened negotiations with the three countries to make changes demanded by industry groups and unions, and insisted that the expansion of benefits for displaced workers be tied to passage of the trade agreements.
The benefits program was expanded in 2009 to include workers in service industries as well as manufacturing. The compromise negotiated this summer between the White House, House Republicans and Senate Democrats preserves most of the funding for the program.
Increased protections for American automakers in the South Korea deal won the support of traditional opponents of trade deals, including some Midwestern Democrats and the United Automobile Workers union. But scores of Democrats opposed the deal with Colombia, because they said it did not do enough to address the murders of dozens of union organizers in that country.
''Trade agreements should not be measured solely on how many tons of goods move across the border,'' said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat.
Economists generally predict that free trade agreements, which eliminate tariffs and other policies aimed at protecting domestic manufacturers, benefit all participating nations by creating a larger common market, increasing sales and reducing prices. But such deals also create clear losers, as workers lose well-paid jobs to foreign competition.
The White House and Republican leaders said that the three agreements would provide a big boost to the lagging American economy and put people back to work.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton hailed the deals Wednesday as an important victory for American foreign policy. And she said she expected that the South Korea pact alone would create 70,000 American jobs. ''By opening new markets to American exports and attracting new investments to American communities, our economic statecraft is creating jobs and spurring growth here at home,'' Ms. Clinton said at a Washington event.
But the United States International Trade Commission, a federal agency that analyzed the deals in 2007, reported that that economic impact would be minimal because the three countries combined represent a relatively small market for American goods and services.
The modest projected increase in demand will come mostly from South Korea, the world's 14th-largest economy, which will join a short list of developed nations that have free trade pacts with the United States, alongside Australia, Canada, Israel and Singapore.
The commission predicted that American farmers would benefit most, because of increased demand for dairy products and beef, pork and poultry. Conversely, it predicted that the pacts would eliminate some manufacturing jobs, particularly in the textile industry.
Opponents, including textile companies, said that the deals would harm the economy by undermining the nation's industrial base. They argued that South Korean companies would benefit much more than American companies because they were gaining access to a much larger market.
These are the first deals to pass Congress since the approval of an agreement with Peru in 2007. The Bush administration had won approval for trade agreements with 14 countries before the Democrats regained Congress in 2008, but it was then unable to gain traction.
''It's been five years in the making, but we are finally here,'' said Representative Lynn Jenkins, a Kansas Republican, in a speech urging passage of the agreements.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about congressional approval of free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama misstated the number of trade agreements that Congress had passed since 2007, when Democrats took control of the Senate and the House. It is one, a trade agreement with Peru, in 2007; it is not the case that no agreements were passed during that period.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Colombian flower grower. The pact will make Colombian goods cheaper in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MIGUEL GOMEZ/REUTERS) (A3) MAP: Expanding Free Trade: With the addition of South Korea, Colombia and Panama, the United States would have free-trade agreements with 20 countries.
Countries that have free-trade agreements with the United States, and the year they were approved
CHART: Potential economic impact of newest free-trade agreements (Sources: Commerce Department
World Bank
 United States International Trade Commission) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (58%); MICHAEL H MICHAUD (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011



592 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Challenged to Explain Accusations of Iran Plot In the Face of Skepticism

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and SCOTT SHANE; Steven Erlanger contributed reporting from Paris, Jo Becker from New York, and Anthony Shadid from Beirut, Lebanon.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Wednesday sought to reconcile what it said was solid evidence of an Iranian plot to murder Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States with a wave of puzzlement and skepticism from some foreign leaders and outside experts.
Senior American officials themselves were struggling to explain why the Quds Force, an elite international operations unit within Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, would orchestrate such a risky attack in so amateurish a manner.
The White House spokesman, Jay Carney, would not go further than to say the plot ''clearly involved senior levels of the Quds Force.'' But other American officials, armed with evidence such as bank transfers and intercepted telephone calls and with knowledge of how the covert unit operated in the past, said they believed that Iran's senior leaders were likely complicit in the plot.
''It would be our assessment that this kind of operation would have been discussed at the highest levels of the regime,'' said a senior American official, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the government's analysis. 
American officials offered no specific evidence linking the plot to Iran's most senior leaders. But they said it was inconceivable in Iran's hierarchy that the leader of the shadowy Quds Force, Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, was not directly involved, and that the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was not aware of such a plan.
Iran's leaders marshaled a furious formal rejection Wednesday of the American accusations, calling the case a cynical fabrication meant to vilify Iran and distract Americans from their severe economic problems. A senior member of Iran's Parliament, Alaeddin Boroujerdi, said he had ''no doubt this is a new American-Zionist plot to divert the public opinion from the crisis Obama is grappling with.''
United States officials said they were exploring several theories why the Quds Force, which supplies and trains insurgents around the world, would plot an attack in Washington against a close adviser to the Saudi king, relying on an Iranian-American used-car salesman from Texas who, they said, thought he was hiring assassins from a Mexican drug gang.
The officials said the plot might indicate a shift to a more combative Iranian foreign policy toward Saudi Arabia and the United States. The United States has brought international pressure on Iran's nuclear program, and Iran and Saudi Arabia have long waged proxy battles for influence in the Muslim world.
''The Iranians watch the Saudis roll tanks in Bahrain, and they see a key ally in Syria going down, so they step up the Quds Force,'' one senior administration official said. He referred to Saudi military assistance to the Sunni monarchy of Bahrain, whose majority population shares the Shia Islam of Iran.
Iran has many trusted networks in the Middle East and has often used the Lebanese militants of Hezbollah as a proxy. But it has far fewer agents in the United States, which might have forced it to look to a far riskier proxy for the plot, officials said.
American investigators have speculated that the Iranian-American accused in the scheme, Mansour J. Arbabsiar, who lived in Texas on the Mexico border, may have convinced a cousin, a senior Quds official, that he could recruit a member of one of Mexico's notorious drug cartels to carry out the killing.
One provocative theory that American officials are considering is that the assassination was intended as retaliation for the killing of several Iranian nuclear scientists during the past two years. Those deaths are widely believed to have been the work of Israel, with tacit American approval, to slow Iran's progress toward a nuclear weapon.
In a protest letter denying the American charges late Tuesday, Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, Mohammad Khazaee, referred pointedly to the assassination campaign. ''Iran has been a victim of terrorism,'' he wrote, ''a clear recent example of which is the assassination of a number of Iranian nuclear scientists in the past two years carried out by the Zionist regime and supported by the United States.''
An American official said of Iranian officials that ''certainly their publicly expressed anger at the death of some of their scientists could have been part of their calculation.'' But the official said the United States government had no specific evidence to support that theory.
Juan Zarate, a deputy national security adviser for combating terrorism in the Bush administration, said that if the upper echelons of the Quds Force had approved the operation, it also must have been approved by Ayatollah Khamenei, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad or both.
If that was the case, he said, it crossed what he called a ''red line,'' bringing to American soil a proxy sectarian war between Shiites and Sunnis that Iran has been fighting with Saudi Arabia for influence in the region in places like Syria and Bahrain.
But Mr. Zarate and senior American officials said the assassination plan did not have the hallmarks of a Quds operation. ''It was very extreme and very odd, but it was also very sloppy,'' Mr. Zarate said. ''If you look at what they have done historically, they can put operatives on their targets and execute. They usually don't outsource, but keep things inside a trusted network.''
One problem for President Obama and his administration is that since American intelligence claims about Iraq's illicit weapons proved false in 2003, assertions by the United States about its adversaries have routinely faced skepticism from other countries.
''Of course, that is in people's heads. Everyone is extremely skeptical about U.S. intelligence revelations,'' said Volker Perthes, an Iran expert who is the director of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin.
There may indeed have been a plot, Mr. Perthes said. ''I don't regard it as impossible but rather improbable,'' he said.
If the Iranian leadership authorized such a plot, he said, that would mark ''a major escalation against the United States, of the kind that hasn't happened since the Iranian Revolution.'' It would be ''almost an act of war,'' and Washington ''must react in a different way than it has so far.''
Alain Frachon, a Le Monde columnist and a former Washington correspondent, said that ''we can expect anything from a regime as split and divided as the Iranian regime is,'' adding that ''one group among them is probably capable of launching such an operation to embarrass the others.''
While the United States' history with Iraq might color the European reaction, Mr. Frachon said, he is ''not sure you'll find the same amount of skepticism in Paris as there was with W.M.D. In the case of Iraq, it was easier to assess, but Iran is much more opaque, and people are willing to expect anything from a divided regime.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ayatollah Ali Khamenei: Supreme leader: Serves as commander in chief of the military, appoints leaders of Iran's top councils, oversees the president and has the power to dismiss him. CHART: The Quds Force in Iran's National Security: The Quds Force, accused of plotting to kill Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States, is a branch of the Revolutionary Guards, an organization directly connected to Iran's supreme leader. (Source: Vali Nasr, professor of international diplomacy at Tufts University's Fletcher School) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); RELIGION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); WIRETAPPING (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); ALI KHAMENEI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); BAHRAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



593 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Oil Executive Promotes Shale Gas to Europeans

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
LONDON -- A senior executive from Exxon Mobil warned Wednesday that Europe could miss a chance to reduce its dependence on imported energy by making it too difficult to develop shale gas and so-called unconventional resources. 
The executive, Andrew P. Swiger, a senior vice president at Exxon, said that the conventional gas fields currently supplying Europe were expected to decline, raising dependence on imports delivered through pipelines and as liquefied natural gas.
''By 2030, Europeans are expected to be significantly more reliant on imports of natural gas than they are today,'' Mr. Swiger said in London at the Oil and Money conference, which is jointly organized by The International Herald Tribune and Energy Intelligence. ''Europe's unconventional natural resources can provide the opportunity to offset this changing mix with domestic supplies,'' he said.
One of the main obstacles to drilling for gas trapped in fine-grained shale rock is the growing public skepticism about the environmental impact of ''fracking,'' using pressurized water, sand and chemicals to release the gas.
Mr. Swiger's remarks came after a decision this summer by the French Parliament to revoke permits from companies using the method. Since then, health and environmental activists have stepped up efforts to extend similar restrictions across the European Union.
Europe is far from united against gas fracking. Poland and Bulgaria are among the countries enthusiastically developing shale gas, partly as a counterweight to mounting anxiety about depending on Russia for natural gas.
Mr. Swiger said fracking could be done safely and cleanly, and he said local regulators should be permitted to decide whether to permit the technique in their communities. He said Europe's shale resources, although different in some ways from the resources in North America, ''may prove to be significant,'' partly because of rapidly evolving drilling and extraction techniques.
Since 2008, Exxon has drilled a number of exploratory wells in Germany for shale gas and for coal-bed methane, which is found in coal seams or in the surrounding rock, Exxon officials said. The company is still analyzing those results to establish their commercial potential, the officials said.
Other experts who spoke at the conference said geologists needed to do more work to determine whether shale gas could be produced in Europe.
''It remains to be seen whether Central Europe has the same rich source rocks as North America,'' said Thomas S. Ahlbrandt, a former senior official at the United States Geological Survey, which is credited with numerous oil and gas discoveries.
Michelle Michot Foss, chief energy economist and head of the Center for Energy Economics, part of the Bureau of Economic Geology at the University of Texas at Austin, said companies looking for opportunities in shale gas were undeterred -- for now.
''You go where you can go, and Eastern Europe seems to be more the place where everybody can go right now,'' Ms. Foss said. ''The question will be whether they get enough drilling and commercial success in Poland and other places to make it worthwhile.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A shale gas exploration well in Pinczow, Poland, operated by San Leon Energy of Ireland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GUILLEMIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); METHANE (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (87%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (87%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); POLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



594 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS Q&A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: The Unhappy Hipsters Dare to Find Solace and Success

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
It was early in 2010, and Molly Jane Quinn, a writer, and Jenna Talbott, a graphic designer, were working, none too happily, at Design New England, a regional magazine. They cheered each other up one chilly January evening by making a tumblr blog with a simple, hilarious engine: marrying photos from Dwell magazine with deadpan captions parodying the magazine's signature hipster anomie. ''His sartorial attempt to blend in with the concrete did little to assuage the tension,'' read one early post.
Ms. Quinn, now 28, and Ms. Talbott, now 34, forwarded the link to friends, one of whom tweeted it, and then it went viral, as others like Andrew Sullivan, then of the Atlantic; Matthew Yglesias, a political blogger; and Dwell's own managing editor tweeted it, too. By the end of the week, the Unhappy Hipsters had 122,000 hits. This reporter caught up with Ms. Quinn and Ms. Talbott then. 
Writing anonymously from a Gmail account, because they were worried about losing their jobs, they said they were stunned by the Twitter activity and tickled by the approbation from former Dwell staffers. The following week, the blogosphere had moved on. But the Unhappy Hipsters kept posting, gathering followers and a Facebook page. Literary agents duked it out over the book rights. There were caption contests and prizes: stickers of the Unhappy Hipsters' logo, a pair of Clark Kent glasses above a frown.
This week, more than a year and a half later, the Unhappy Hipsters have 74,000 regular blog followers and nearly 43,000 Facebook ''likes.'' Their book is out, and so are they: Ms. Talbott is now designing alumni magazines for Boston University; Ms. Quinn is unemployed, having followed her fiance to Portland, Ore.
''It's Lonely in the Modern World: The Essential Guide to Form, Function, and Ennui from the Creators of Unhappy Hipsters,'' a satisfying send-up of a design primer, presents lessons in hostile faucetry, blinding fluorescents and vicious exposed ductwork. ''Welcome to the modern world,'' write the authors.
Can you describe that first week of the Unhappy Hipsters?
Ms. Quinn: Well, we panicked. First of all, none of this was planned, we just did this for each other. But it was really funny to watch the life cycle of a blog. I would read these tweets, people were saying, ''Unhappy Hipsters used to be great, but now it's really jumped the shark,'' and it was only two days old.
Ms. Talbott: I think it was Day 2 and someone on MetaFilter said, ''It started out really great, and now the writing is uneven.''
How did the book come about?
Ms. Quinn: As the press was contacting us, so were a lot of agents. We put together our first book proposal, which was just the pictures and captions, with a sense of urgency because of the short-lived nature of blogs. And nobody bought it.
Ms. Talbott: It was assumed we wouldn't get permissions, from the photographers or the homeowners, and that it would be a very expensive book to make.
Ms. Quinn: So we went back to the drawing board and came up with this idea to do a faux design book. And then I quit my job.
The flyleaf of your book notes that you met in a bookstore, fighting over a signed copy of the catalog for Hans Hofmann's Museum of Modern Art retrospective. Is that really true?
Ms. Quinn: Ah, no. I felt that because we were anonymous so long, I didn't want us to pull back the veil completely. I also wanted us to have a really pompous meet-cute.
Does that mean that Jenna doesn't actually enjoy vintage Venus pencils, as it also notes?
Ms. Talbott: I actually do.
What do your living quarters look like?
Ms. Talbott: I have a lot of stuff. No one would ever accuse me of being a minimalist. No concrete, no womb chair, not a shred of a trend. I have no pets, but I do have a husband.
Ms. Quinn: I'm actually sort of homeless right now. I sold everything except what could fit into my little car.
What's the worst sin perpetrated by the modernists?
Ms. Quinn: Plywood. Using plywood as a finish surface is sickeningly pat.
Ms. Talbott: Blind idolatry of dead architects.
Is a proper modernist's diet confined, as you write, to foods with a monochrome palette, like green apples and San Pellegrino?
Ms. Talbott: That combo always struck me as the perfect makings for an extreme stomachache. A little variety is allowed. Throw in some oddly shaped root vegetables, but scatter at random before eating.
Ms. Quinn: Also super-specialty Asian treats, like Durian candies and freeze-dried mandarin peels that necessitate explanation. And small-batch microbrews.
Is there an appropriate modernist pet? And if it's canine, what breed?
Ms. Talbott: If you are concerned with the proper modernist breed, then that means you can shop around, which means you are rich, which means you need a Vizsla. See Page 167.
We talked earlier about what else you might like to parody, and one of you said the World of Interiors -- but instead of a bohemian castle in Ireland, you'd do Brazilian slums. What else might make a juicy target?
Ms. Quinn: Hmm. I think that the World of Interiors just lends itself to parody because it's so over the top, just like Dwell. However, so many great shelter magazines have shuttered, from House & Garden to Metropolitan Home, that it's slim pickings. Which is too bad. Jenna and I both love magazines, so we both mourn the passing of each downed title.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''He quietly contemplated the disconnect between his social ineptitude and impeccable aesthetic.''
''The child could bear the boredom no longer.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE LAURIDSEN)
SHARP EDGES: Jenna Talbott, left, and Molly Jane Quinn with their new book, top. Above left, scenes and captions from the Unhappy Hipsters Web site. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REENA BAMMI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (LEFT) AND LEELA CYD ROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE GUEVARA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (58%) NORTHEAST USA (73%); OREGON, USA (58%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



595 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Up the Career Ladder, Lipstick In Hand

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
WANT more respect, trust and affection from your co-workers?
Wearing makeup -- but not gobs ofGaga-conspicuous makeup -- apparently can help. It increases people's perceptions of a woman's likability, her competence and (provided she does not overdo it) her trustworthiness, according to a new study, which also confirmed what is obvious: that cosmetics boost a woman's attractiveness.
It has long been known that symmetrical faces are considered more comely, and that people assume that handsome folks are intelligent and good. There is also some evidence that women feel more confident when wearing makeup, a kind of placebo effect, said Nancy Etcoff, the study's lead author and an assistant clinical professor of psychology at Harvard University (yes, scholars there study eyeshadow as well as stem cells). But no research, till now, has given makeup credit for people inferring that a woman was capable, reliable and amiable.
The study was paid for by Procter & Gamble, which sells CoverGirl and Dolce & Gabbana makeup, but researchers like Professor Etcoff and others from Boston University and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute were responsible for its design and execution. 
The study's 25 female subjects, aged 20 to 50 and white, African-American and Hispanic, were photographed barefaced and in three looks that researchers called natural, professional and glamorous. They were not allowed to look in a mirror, lest their feelings about the way they looked affect observers' impressions.
One hundred forty-nine adults (including 61 men) judged the pictures for 250 milliseconds each, enough time to make a snap judgment. Then 119 different adults (including 30 men) were given unlimited time to look at the same faces.
The participants judged women made up in varying intensities of luminance contrast (fancy words for how much eyes and lips stand out compared with skin) as more competent than barefaced women, whether they had a quick glance or a longer inspection.
''I'm a little surprised that the relationship held for even the glamour look,'' said Richard Russell, an assistant professor of psychology at Gettysburg College in Gettysburg, Pa. ''If I call to mind a heavily competent woman like, say, Hillary Clinton, I don't think of a lot of makeup. Then again, she's often onstage so for all I know she is wearing a lot.''
However, the glamour look wasn't all roses.
''If you wear a glam look, you should know you look very attractive'' at quick glance, said Professor Etcoff, the author of ''Survival of the Prettiest'' (Doubleday, 1999), which argued that the pursuit of beauty is a biological as well as a cultural imperative. But over time, ''there may be a lowering of trust, so if you are in a situation where you need to be a trusted source, perhaps you should choose a different look.''
Just as boardroom attire differs from what you would wear to a nightclub, so can makeup be chosen strategically depending on the agenda.
''There are times when you want to give a powerful 'I'm in charge here' kind of impression, and women shouldn't be afraid to do that,'' by, say, using a deeper lip color that could look shiny, increasing luminosity, said Sarah Vickery, another author of the study and a Procter & Gamble scientist. ''Other times you want to give off a more balanced, more collaborative appeal.''
In that case, she suggested, opt for lip tones that are light to moderate in color saturation, providing contrast to facial skin, but not being too glossy.
But some women did not view the study's findings as progress.
''I don't wear makeup, nor do I wish to spend 20 minutes applying it,'' said Deborah Rhode, a law professor at Stanford University who wrote ''The Beauty Bias'' (Oxford University Press, 2010), which details how appearance unjustly affects some workers. ''The quality of my teaching shouldn't depend on the color of my lipstick or whether I've got mascara on.''
She is no ''beauty basher,'' she said. ''I'm against our preoccupation, and how judgments about attractiveness spill over into judgments about competence and job performance. We like individuals in the job market to be judged on the basis of competence, not cosmetics.''
But Professor Etcoff argued that there has been a cultural shift in ideas about self adornment, including makeup. ''Twenty or 30 years ago, if you got dressed up, it was simply to please men, or it was something you were doing because society demands it,'' she said. ''Women and feminists today see this is their own choice, and it may be an effective tool.''
Dr. Vickery, whose Ph.D. is in chemistry, added that cosmetics ''can significantly change how people see you, how smart people think you are on first impression, or how warm and approachable, and that look is completely within a woman's control, when there are so many things you cannot control.''
Bobbi Brown, the founder of her namesake cosmetics line, suggested that focusing on others' perceptions misses the point of what makes makeup powerful.
''We are able to transform ourselves, not only how we are perceived, but how we feel,'' she said.
Ms. Brown also said that the wrong color on a subject may have caused some testers to conclude that women with high-contrasting makeup were more ''untrustworthy.'' ''People will have a bad reaction if it's not the right color, not the right texture, or if the makeup is not enhancing your natural beauty,'' she said.
Daniel Hamermesh, an economics professor at the University of Texas at Austin, said the conclusion that makeup makes women look more likable -- or more socially cooperative -- made sense to him because ''we conflate looks and a willingness to take care of yourself with a willingness to take care of people.''
Professor Hamermesh, the author of ''Beauty Pays'' (Princeton University Press, 2011), which lays out the leg-up the beautiful get, said he wished that good-looking people were not treated differently, but said he was a realist.
''Like any other thing that society rewards, people will take advantage of it,'' he said of makeup's benefits. ''I'm an economist, so I say, why not? But I wish society didn't reward this. I think we'd be a fairer world if beauty were not rewarded, but it is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUT NOT TOO MUCH: In a study, women were photographed wearing varying amounts of makeup, from left: barefaced, natural, professional and glamorous. Viewers considered the women wearing more makeup to be more competent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COSMETICS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); WOMEN (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); CANCER (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%)

COMPANY: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (68%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE (55%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



596 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Conflict and Confusion Over Economy at the Fed

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee is increasingly divided between advocates for stronger steps to bolster the economy and dissenters who see little benefit and considerable risk in such efforts, according to minutes of the committee's most recent meeting.
The Federal Open Market Committee voted at the end of a two-day meeting in September to begin an effort to reduce long-term interest rates, allowing businesses and consumers to borrow more cheaply. 
The Fed disclosed at the time that three members of the 10-person board had voted against the decision. The minutes released Wednesday record that on the other side, two members wanted the Fed to take even stronger action.
The internal divisions were partly the product of a lack of clarity about the health of the economy. In its predictions since the end of the recession, the Fed has repeatedly overestimated the pace of economic growth, and the minutes report that the board does not understand why it has been wrong.
''It was again noted that the cyclical impetus to economic expansion appeared to be weaker than in past recoveries, but that the reasons for the weakness were unclear,'' the minutes said.
The Fed noted that labor market conditions in particular had been disappointing, with companies adding fewer workers than expected. It also noted that both consumers and businesses remained surprisingly pessimistic.
In response to evidence that the economy is growing slowly, at best, the Fed announced in August that it intended to maintain short-term interest rates near zero for at least two more years. In September, it announced an effort to further reduce long-term interest rates by moving $400 billion from investments in short-term Treasury securities to longer-term Treasury securities.
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said since the decision was announced that the central bank is willing to act again if necessary, but also that there would be a high bar. In particular, he has said that the Fed was most likely to act if the pace of inflation abated to the point where there was a risk that prices and wages might begin to decline. Such a trend, known as deflation, can cause buyers to delay purchases, derailing the economy.
The minutes, which are normally released three weeks after a policy decision, made clear that the Fed had not changed its view that the pace of inflation was likely to remain at roughly 2 percent a year, the rate that the Fed considers most healthy.
''Participants generally judged that there was relatively little risk of deflation,'' the minutes said.
That suggests that the central bank is unlikely to seriously consider another round of asset purchases, the most powerful arrow left in its quiver.
The minutes do note that ''a number of participants'' said that they regarded asset purchases as ''a more potent tool that should be retained as an option in the event that further policy action to support a stronger economic recovery was warranted.''
The minutes do not disclose the names of the two members who favored stronger action, although one obvious candidate is Charles L. Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, who has argued publicly that the Fed should move more aggressively to stimulate the flagging economy.
The names of the three dissenters, however, are public: Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas; Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis; and Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. They argued that the Fed's actions were unlikely to help the economy and would increase the chances of a faster pace of inflation.
The committee next meets on Nov. 1 and 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



597 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Coach Doesn't Play the Superstar Card

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Harrison, N.J.
Jurgen Klinsmann never talks about the days when he was a great striker in Europe. He does not bring up his 47 goals for the German national team or his 1990 World Cup title with West Germany.
''Never. Not once,'' said Tim Ream, a defender with the United States national team, who was outmaneuvered for the only goal in a 1-0 loss to Ecuador in a friendly Tuesday evening. The superstar as coach. It's an interesting concept. Ream knows he is being tutored by a world-class player who could tell him how Andreas Brehme defended against a crossing shot in 1990 in the World Cup final against Argentina. There are no big-time insinuations when Klinsmann speaks to his new players in the New World. Instead, Klinsmann gave Ream a positive feeling -- not easy to do when the loss gave the American squad a record of one win, three losses and one draw in Klinsmann's first five games. 
Everybody knows who that man is in front of the United States bench. The sweetest moment Monday night at Red Bull Arena in the team's open practice -- another Klinsmann innovation -- came when he was supervising a finishing drill in front of the goal.
A rebound came loose and Klinsmann could not help himself, drilling a hard shot into the net. A spontaneous round of applause came from the 500 die-hard fans who were getting to watch practice free. American fans, and American players and American front-office types, are now squarely in the Jurgen Klinsmann era.
Sometimes superstars work out as coaches; sometimes they do not. Americans have seen Ted Williams and Frank Robinson as baseball managers, and Bill Russell, Larry Bird, Lenny Wilkens and Isiah Thomas as basketball coaches, with decidedly mixed results. Sometimes superstars are patient; other times they wonder why all players do not have the reflexes and the drive they had.
Now, for the first time in the history of American soccer, a bona fide world-class star is coaching the Yanks. It is still not at all clear what kind of coach Klinsmann is; Joachim Low did a lot of the tactical work as the top assistant when Klinsmann's German national team finished third in the 2006 World Cup.
In his new post, Klinsmann is fearless, acting as if he has nothing to lose. He speaks English with a slight German accent, using phrases like ''which means'' or ''which is to say'' as bridges to enlightening digressions. He was off and running as a fleet blond striker in the German, French, Italian and English leagues. His acrobatic dive in the 1990 final is a classic. Now he is romping in his current home.
On Monday, he casually let fly that the Major League Soccer season is far too short, that players need to play -- and learn and grow -- for 11 months a year, not seven or eight.
Sunil Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation, who courted Klinsmann for four years, responded that his hire was exactly right. M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber, who has carefully fostered the league's growth during an economic downturn, said, ''I'd like to have global warming take effect,'' meaning, who really wants to see games in New York or Chicago or Toronto in January?
Klinsmann's broader point is that homegrown American players need longer, tougher training. The American talent pool is, quite bluntly, stagnant after decades of developmental programs. The federation has brought in two young German players with American fathers, Danny Williams and Tim Chandler, who demonstrate more skill and aggression and feel for the game than almost anybody coming out of the expensive suburban soccer programs all over this rich vast land.
Ream is the rarity. He is no child prodigy, not at 24, after four years at St. Louis University, but he prospered with the Red Bulls in 2010 and earned his call-up to Bob Bradley's national team. Ream has sputtered this year -- the sophomore jinx, they call it in baseball and other sports.
Ream was rightfully included on the United States squad for friendly matches in Miami on Saturday and at his home stadium in New Jersey on Tuesday. In the 72nd minute, Klinsmann sent in Ream as his final substitution, and five minutes later Ecuador fired a high crossing shot. Jaime Ayovi, listed at 5 feet 10 inches on the Ecuador roster, maneuvered away from Ream, who is listed at 6-1, then outjumped him and headed the ball past Tim Howard, who had no chance.
''It's kind of a split-second play,'' Klinsmann said. ''He has to be in front of his man and unbalance him.''
Klinsmann also gave a public boost to his player. ''I didn't see him back off,'' he said. ''He is one of the promising center backs, and he deserves to be on the squad. He learns from this. He needs to smell things at this level, how to anticipate, read the space. He shook it off. We tell our players to shake it off. You can't change your mistakes.''
Klinsmann called it a learning moment -- and not just for the player. He made the point that young Americans need to spend their off-season working hard, perhaps training with a top European squad. The reality is that promising young Americans really do need to play for those European teams, the way Clint Dempsey and Steve Cherundolo and Michael Bradley are doing.
The best part of Klinsmann's open approach is that Ream got it. He explained his mistake -- ''I was watching my man, and I looked up at the ball and I realized he was behind me, something I have to work on, being more physical.''
Ream agreed with his coach that the M.L.S. season is not long enough. ''We only play from March until maybe November,'' he said. ''Over there you play two games a week and at a higher level.''
With his four years of college, Ream knows a born teacher like Klinsmann when he sees one.
''He's not just putting on a show for you guys,'' he told reporters.
It is a fascinating experiment. The United States has hired a world-level player with a fertile mind. How well this superstar can coach over here is a different question.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jurgen Klinsmann, the coach of the United States national team, scored 47 international goals and helped West Germany win the World Cup in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONGARTS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SPORTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); BASEBALL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (91%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



598 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Eco Meets The Economy

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
IN August, Lloyd Alter came up against the limits of his environmental convictions when he had to replace the leaky roof on his house in Toronto.
''For years, I said I would install a reflective metal roof,'' because it helps to reduce heat and lower energy costs during the summer, said Mr. Alter, 58, an architect who writes about design for Treehugger, the sustainability-focused Web site. But ''when push came to shove,'' he said, ''I bought asphalt.''
The asphalt shingles aren't as good at reflecting the sun's rays, and worse still, they're made from a petroleum-based material. But they were a lot cheaper: the total cost of the new roof, including installation, was about $12,000, Mr. Alter noted, while ''the metallic roof probably would have cost double.''
It is the kind of reality check that many eco-conscious consumers face these days. And like Mr. Alter, most have resorted to cutting their spending on a variety of items, particularly green products, which typically cost more than their non-green counterparts and can be difficult to justify, or even afford, when budgets are tight. 
In a bad economy, what used to seem essential can quickly become optional.
At the same time, what was once merely fashionable can become a matter of necessity. Activities like growing and canning food, raising chickens and making your own clothes and other household goods -- which in recent years have been exalted for their artisanal qualities -- are now seen by many as a way to economize while staying true to green values.
David Quilty, a blogger in Santa Fe, N.M., has stopped buying organic cotton T-shirts and shopping for produce at Whole Foods. And after years of buying packaged cleaners and soaps from eco-friendly companies like Method and Seventh Generation, he can no longer afford them, he said, so he has started cleaning his home with a solution he whips up himself.
Not coincidentally, his widely read environmental blog, The Good Human, recently ran an article entitled ''23 Ways to Use Vinegar for Nontoxic Cleaning.'' One of a number of similar features that have appeared on the site in the last year, it is a sign of the blog's shift toward a do-it-yourself mentality.
''I have to prioritize my spending, as many people do right now,'' said Mr. Quilty, 39, who makes a living running the blog and has seen ad revenue fall by a third in the last six months. ''I just don't have the financial ability.''
The same shift in focus is evident on other environmental blogs. Mr. Alter said he sees it playing out daily on Treehugger. ''Had you come on the site four years ago, before the recession, you would have seen a post every day for a new bamboo shirt or bamboo sandals,'' he said. ''We do almost none of that stuff anymore, because people don't have the money to buy it.''
Gone, too, is the avid coverage of $1,000 laptops with cases made of recycled plastic, the furniture built out of sustainably harvested wood and the solar-panel hats. Instead, Mr. Alter said, ''We're writing a lot more about cooking, politics, riding bikes.''
Jill Fehrenbacher, 34, the founder and editor in chief of Inhabitat, a popular green design blog, said she has cut back on product articles as well, a shift her readers all but demanded. ''In the last few years,'' she said, ''we've seen a real anti-consumer pushback.''
Not surprisingly, the green products industry is feeling the pinch. Laura Batcha, executive vice president of the Organic Trade Association, said that while the organic-goods sector has boomed in the last eight years, going up to $29 billion from $9 billion in sales, the industry's yearly growth rates dropped to less than 6 percent in 2010, from between 15 and 20 percent previously.
And some brands have felt the pain more than others. According to SymphonyIRI Group, a market research firm that tracks mass-market stores (excluding Wal-Mart), sales of Clorox Green Works tub cleaner and dish detergent each dropped by more than 30 percent in the 12-month period ending in early September. And Seventh Generation, a popular green brand, has seen a drop in sales of items like paper towels, which are down by more than 15 percent during the same period (though sales of some of the company's other items, like dish detergent, are up by a nearly equal percentage). Meanwhile, pricier items like hybrid cars have seen sales decline by more than 20 percent in the last year, according to Baum & Associates, another market-research firm.
Despite all that, Ms. Batcha insists that the green industry is continuing its ''uphill climb'' (the industry's growth rates are back in the low double-digits this year, she said, although she was unable to provide specific numbers), and most people aren't making a choice between green and cheap. At the moment, however, many eco-minded consumers seem to be wary of both.
Not long ago, Mr. Alter found himself in a grocery store, trying to decide between $10-a-pound organic bacon and a nonorganic brand that cost $5. In the end, he didn't buy either one. ''More and more people are doing that,'' he said. ''It's like 'Buy Nothing Day' all year.''
FOR Erin Peters, a stay-at-home mother of three who began using green products four years ago, the D.I.Y. approach was a response to what she thought was a temporary financial hardship. When her husband's company transferred him from Washington, D.C., to Raleigh, N.C., in 2008, just as the real estate market collapsed, they were saddled with a mortgage on one home and rent on another, until they finally sold the house a year later.
During that time, her shopping trips took on the aspect of a liberal morality play. ''I couldn't get us into more debt,'' said Ms. Peters, 32. ''But I felt guilty if I didn't buy the green products we'd been using.''
Recently, they had another setback: their health insurance premiums went up, which meant ''we lost a few hundred dollars from the monthly budget,'' Ms. Peters said, and had to make more spending cuts.
For now, at least, that means no organic produce. They are also renting a smaller house within walking distance of her husband's office and the children's school. By driving less, they save money and reduce their carbon footprint.
Ms. Peters has also begun gardening and canning vegetables, and although she once thought of thrift stores as selling clothing that was ''rotten or falling apart,'' and would never have dreamed of shopping there, that's now where she buys clothes.
But despite forgoing things like green cleaning products and organic food, Ms. Peters said, she thinks she is living in a more sustainable way than she did before. ''I think the economy has forced people to be greener,'' she said. ''Even if they didn't intend to.''
OTHERS have found they can make do just by being more selective. Megan Yarnall, 23, a recent graduate of Dickinson College, has been on a strict budget since she moved out of her parents' house a year and a half ago and into an apartment in Yardley, Pa. She still buys organic produce, but not as indiscriminately as she did in college.
''For me, it's a matter of choosing what should be bought organic,'' she said, ''and what isn't as crucial.''
From a co-worker at TerraCycle, the recycling-design firm in New Jersey where she works, Ms. Yarnall learned about the so-called ''Dirty Dozen,'' a list of the 12 fruits and vegetables most susceptible to absorbing pesticides, based on data from the United States Department of Agriculture. Ms. Yarnall now saves money by buying organically grown produce only if it's on that list. That means splurging on things like strawberries, apples and lettuce, but not on thick-skinned fruit like bananas.
Mr. Quilty has come up with his own accommodation: to afford grass-fed meat, he buys fruit and vegetables at a farmers' market, which ''is much cheaper than Whole Foods,'' he said.
And if the produce isn't organic, at least it's local. ''It is a tradeoff, but it's worth it to me to eat the healthiest meat I can get.''
Some worry that all this frugality may result in what Gita Nandan calls ''short-sighted knee-jerk reactions,'' namely, passing up green products with high upfront costs, despite the long-term savings and reduced environmental impact.
''People say, 'I only have $3 in my pocket, I should buy the incandescent bulb because it's cheap,' '' said Ms. Nandan, 40, a partner in Thread Collective, a Brooklyn design firm specializing in sustainable architecture. But ''in the end, the math doesn't work out,'' she continued, because using more energy means your monthly bills will be higher.
Ms. Nandan said that she suggests clients skimp in certain areas (''let's not spend a lot of money on paint or the $12,000 bathtub'') and put the savings toward costlier green materials that will pay off in the long run.
Lately, she has been advocating a product made by EnergyHub, a device that allows homeowners to monitor and control their electricity use. ''Are my clients going to pay the extra $300?'' she said. ''I don't know, but it's worth having the conversation.''
Investing in an eco-friendly energy monitor might not require much thought in a robust economy. But like many of the things environmentally conscious consumers talked about doing a few years ago -- installing solar-panels, buying hybrid cars, building LEED-certified houses -- it may be a dream that has to be deferred.
Earlier this year, Ms. Peters and her husband test-drove a Leaf, the all-electric car from Nissan. Buying it would be an energy-efficient upgrade from the couple's 2004 Honda Odyssey, and it's something Ms. Peters said they might have done not long ago.
''Like most Americans,'' she said, ''I had the mind-set that if I wanted something new, I could run out and get it.''
Instead, she and her husband have entered a contest to win the car and have put off buying anything. When the economy recovers, she said, they hope to be driving a new fuel-efficient vehicle, but ''it's out of reach right now.''
David Quilty's Homemade All-Purpose Cleaner
Fill a spray bottle two-thirds full of water and one-third full of white distilled vinegar. To cut the vinegar smell, add a few drops of an essential oil like lemon grass, sage or grapefruit. (The smell of vinegar dissipates soon after using the cleaner, so you can skip the essential oils if you are sensitive to the oils' fragrance.)
Mr. Quilty estimates that he uses about one cup of vinegar per spray bottle and pays around $4 for a gallon. That works out to about 25 cents for a bottle of cleaner, which is ''way, way less'' than a typical $3 to $5 packaged cleaner at the store, he said. ''I use that everywhere around the house as an all-purpose cleaner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PANGS: Erin Peters, with her son Ryan: ''I couldn't get us into more debt. But I felt guilty if I didn't buy the green products we'd been using.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
COVERAGE: Lloyd Alter wanted to put a metal roof on his house to reduce energy costs, but ''when push came to shove, I bought asphalt,'' which is cheaper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS YOUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHOOSY: Megan Yarnall does her food shopping selectively: ''For me, it's a matter of choosing what should be bought organic and what isn't as crucial.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT PRESUTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD MIA)
 CHART: Purity's Price Tag: When budgets are tight, every penny counts, and consumers look to save wherever they can. The comparison of basic household items below shows that the green option is often costlier.(Sources: Kmart.com (dish soap), Amazon.com (toilet paper), HomeDepot. com (light bulbs, paint), Petsmart.com (pet food) ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); ROOFING MATERIALS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); COTTON FABRICS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (53%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



599 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: A Company Grows, And Builds a Plant Back in the U.S.A.

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Today, Taphandles employs 33 people at its headquarters in Seattle and about 450 at the Chinese factory that produces the beer-marketing products it sells to breweries. But its owner, Paul Fichter, who founded the company in 1999 and anticipates $11 million in revenue this year, expects that ratio to change. Mr. Fichter, 40, just signed a lease on a 41,800-square-foot factory in Woodinville, Wash., and began manufacturing some of his products there last month.
A Boston Consulting Group analysis released last week found that manufacturing outsourced to China has begun to return to the United States as the economic advantages have started to shift. The analysis predicts that, with Chinese wages rising at 15 to 20 percent a year and with the continued appreciation of the renminbi against the dollar, the gap between the labor costs in Chinese coastal provinces and in America's lower-cost states will shrink to less than 40 percent by around 2015 -- and could lead to the creation of two million to three million jobs in the United States.
Mr. Fichter recently discussed the factors that led him to bring some of his manufacturing back to this country. A condensed version of the conversation follows. 
Q. Why did you decide to open your new factory in the United States?
A. The lead time for orders coming from China is three weeks, and all of our brewery clients want our products faster -- that's the first thing they say when we meet with them.
Q.Were there other factors?
A. Once we started looking into it, we found the decision made business sense on many levels. Our Chinese labor costs have increased 300 percent since 2006, when we opened our factory there. Even at the higher wages Chinese workers are demanding, it's gotten harder to find labor. To stay competitive we've also had to upgrade benefits like dormitories and food. On top of that, the Chinese currency continues to appreciate -- it was valued at 8.28 to the dollar when I started the business. Now it's at 6.38. And I predict shipping costs will keep going up as a result of the rising cost of oil.
Q.Do you see other manufacturers making the same decision?
A. While I don't personally know any, I think we're on the leading edge of a trend because the factors that are affecting us affect everyone.
Q.Why isn't it happening faster?
A. Change will take time. Five years ago, there was an absolute advantage to manufacturing in China. Today, some things are better produced here, and some are better produced there. It's 50-50. But I think the U.S. advantage will become clearer with time.
Q.Many owners complain about the quality of Chinese goods. Has that been a problem for you?
A. No, we opened our own factory in China in 2006. Quality there is good and has never been an issue. But we have had other challenges.
Q.Like what?
A. I like to do business by the rules, but as an American operating in China, the rules are not always entirely clear. For example, we lost power -- and three days of productivity -- at our Chinese factory in August. Maybe there was something we could have done to get our power turned back on. Meanwhile, our customers were screaming.
Q.How did you get into this business?
A. After business school, I worked in manufacturing as a consultant. I figured that if I could tell other companies what to do, I could run my own. So, I began to research businesses I could start with a very small investment. I came across a company that made tap handles for home brewers. They were failing, and I saw why: high labor costs. I decided I could do it better and started Taphandles out of my one-bedroom apartment with an $800 investment in tools and material from Home Depot. I started painting tap handles on my balcony.
Q.How did you end up manufacturing in China?
A. In preparation for a job interview with Breadman, the bread machine company, I'd done a ton of research on their Chinese manufacturing. I decided to use the Breadman model for my business, which would eliminate the high labor costs that contributed to the failure of that other tap handle business.
Q.Which products will Taphandles manufacture at its American factory?
A. While 98 percent of the tap handles will continue to come from China, we also make signs and displays -- including the A-frame chalkboards you see outside bars. We want to grow this area of the business and had initially planned to do it in China. Instead, we'll be making these products, which are big, bulky and expensive to ship, in Woodinville.
Q.How will your costs compare to what you would have paid in China?
A. We'll break even on production, but come out ahead once we factor in lead time. Right now, we're losing orders because of lead time.
Q.What type of work force will you need?
A. Mostly skilled technicians who can use computer numerical controlled machines, which allow us to cut many products at once. Because Boeing is nearby, we've got a great labor pool. The cost of computer automation in the United States has also dropped. In China, humans do the same work on much simpler machines. So, we're replacing Chinese labor with machines run by United States workers. The machines will make 10 times more product than a person could in China.
Q.Are you hiring people away from Boeing?
A. No, we don't expect to hire directly from Boeing. But we could wind up hiring people who have worked there in the past.
Q. Are you finding workers who have the skills you need at the rate you're paying?
A. Yes. I recently hired a director of operations to open the United States factory. He had previously run a factory that did the same sort of work for the construction industry. All of his former good, experienced employees are available, so we expect to be able to hire them, too.
Q.How many jobs do you expect to create?
A. We're in the process of hiring our first five workers and expect to employ 150 at the factory by 2015. Starting base pay will range from $9 to $16 an hour.
Q.How are you financing your expansion?
A. Almost entirely with the tax savings we're realizing because of the law Congress passed at the end of 2010, which allows capital investments to be deducted immediately, not over time. Last year, my tax liability was more than $500,000. This year, because of instant deductibility, I won't have a tax liability. It's an extremely important deduction. Normally, taxes are pretty punitive on growing businesses.
Q.Why are you leaving the tap-handle manufacturing in China?
The tap handles have very intricate shapes -- for example, the teeth on a whale -- that require detailed hand painting. It's labor that you can't automate. I've searched the world and not been able to find the same quality of labor elsewhere.
Q.Do you think Americans still know how to make stuff?
A. Absolutely. My baby's crib was made here, and that was important to me. I didn't have to worry about the safety of, for example, the paint used. The key to success for the United States will be using machines instead of brawn. When we surveyed other countries, including Vietnam, the Philippines and Indonesia, we didn't find the skilled labor base we needed. While I'm really proud of creating jobs here in America, it's not just an emotional decision. It makes sense.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Fichter, who started Taphandles in 1999, has opened a factory in Woodinville, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPH STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%)

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



600 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: A Lot of Talk, but Few Stars Have Left the Country to Play

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
If he were desperate for competition -- without regard to geography, lifestyle or paycheck -- Carmelo Anthony could board a flight to Italy, Spain or France tomorrow. The jobs are there. Games are being played. Basketball goes on, even without the N.B.A.
If he wanted to, Anthony could set off a virtual bidding war with a single announcement. But he only chuckles at the prospect. 
''I haven't thought about it,'' Anthony, the star Knicks forward, said Wednesday during an interview to promote his new Nike shoe line. ''I'm trying to be optimistic about this whole lockout thing. So I really haven't thought about going overseas, playing basketball.''
The lockout Anthony referred to is in its fourth month, the result of a rift between owners and players over their labor deal. The first two weeks of the season were canceled Monday.
More games will probably fall soon, raising the possibility of a further migration of players to Europe and China. A possibility, but not a likelihood.
The European leagues are already under way, and teams will be hesitant to break up their rosters to rent an N.B.A. player for a few weeks or a few months. Players with N.B.A. contracts must return as soon as the lockout ends. And as Anthony said, players expect the lockout to end -- sooner rather than later.
The overseas migration may be one of the most overblown stories of the lockout. About 65 N.B.A. players have taken overseas jobs, but a vast majority of them are rookies, middling veterans and fringe players. Some are foreign players who simply returned to their home countries.
An average fan scanning the list at Hoopshype.com would not recognize most names. A team created solely from that list might not even go .500 in the N.B.A.
The Nets' Deron Williams, who signed with the Turkish club Besiktas, is the only current All-Star playing overseas. Only 10 other players on the list started at least 41 games in the N.B.A. last season. Only three others averaged at least 15 points: San Antonio's Tony Parker and Denver's Danilo Gallinari (Italy) and Wilson Chandler (China).
Parker is a special exception in any case: He is playing in his native France, for Asvel Villeurbanne, a team in which he has part ownership.
Other high-caliber rotation players who have gone overseas include Denver's Ty Lawson (Lithuania), Kenyon Martin (China) and J. R. Smith (China); Portland's Nicolas Batum (France), Utah's Andrei Kirilenko (Russia) and Mehmet Okur (Turkey), Charlotte's Boris Diaw (France) and San Antonio's DeJuan Blair (Russia).
The rest of the list is filled with the likes of Sundiata Gaines, Joey Dorsey, Keith Benson and Alonzo Gee.
Until this week, players who signed overseas went because of the fear of canceled games. Now that the cancellations have begun, could it spur a greater migration? Will other star players depart? The answer to both question is probably not. The greatest reasons are convenience and money.
''There's not a lot of jobs,'' said Mark Bartelstein, whose agency, Priority Sports, has 15 clients playing overseas. ''The season's under way over there, so everybody's got their rosters full. Is there potential that there may be some team that wants to try to carve out some opportunities for players? I think that's possible. But the economics are not such that there's a lot of teams that can afford to do that.''
An N.B.A. player who goes to Europe might earn as little as $50,000 to $75,000 per month -- a fraction of what most make in the N.B.A., where the average salary is $5.8 million a year and the minimum is nearly $500,000.
Williams is reportedly earning $3 million to $5 million in Turkey, and Martin a reported $500,000 a month in China, but they are extreme exceptions.
Additionally, the foreign leagues have all begun play, which will make them hesitant to sign new players -- especially when they might leave in a few weeks.
''That's a big hurdle,'' said the agent Happy Walters, whose N.B.A. clientele includes Amar'e Stoudemire. ''Coaches are going to want to build a homogenous team. Someone's going to leave. That disrupts the team.''
Stoudemire, like his Knicks teammate Anthony, has shown little interest in playing abroad. It is a more attractive option for a young player like Shawne Williams -- another Walters client -- who is still establishing his worth. Williams spent last season with the Knicks, but is a free agent and might entertain foreign offers.
Walters also represents Blair, a 21-year-old Spurs forward who is playing in Russia. Blair wanted the opportunity to play, to improve his game and to make a little extra money, Walters said. He also figured to get more experience as a featured player in Russia than as a role player for the Spurs. Still, Blair decided in advance that the move would be temporary. His contract calls for him to be released at the end of October.
For many N.B.A. players, particularly those born in the United States, it is hard to leave their comfort zone.
''It's a lifestyle change,'' Anthony said. ''You got to adjust. By the time you probably adjust, it's going to be time for you to come back anyway.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Nuggets' Kenyon Martin, defending a shot by the Mavericks' Shawn Marion, and J. R. Smith, left, have gone to China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG PENSINGER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOOTWEAR (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (66%) COLORADO, USA (66%); UTAH, USA (50%) CHINA (94%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (79%); LITHUANIA (75%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

 
