

201 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 10; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Destination: Spring;
5 Restless Writers Head Outside And Report Back On What They Found There

BYLINE: By Jon Nordheimer 

 BODY:
Whatever the calendar says, spring really begins with the first irresistible urge to head outside. Our senses quickened more by instinct than the outward signposts of the season, we shed the deadness of winter and we get going.
Barely greening trails, muddy as often as not, are blazed anew by the first hikers of the year. Roads and pathways fill with runners and cyclists sharpening their skills for a long race or rally, or just airing out their lungs at long last. Shore towns, shut down tight just yesterday, begin to primp for a summer that's still months away. At nurseries and garden stores, long lines form at cash registers as suburban farmers dream of harvesting the perfect tomato. Weekday road warriors get into their cars, roll down the windows, hopefully, and just drive, heading nowhere but away. 
 There are countless places across the state to indulge the pleasant restlessness of spring. Some of them, of course, are genuine, board-certified "destinations." More often, though, they are simply places that fit right, that suit individual styles. We asked five New Jersey writers where they go when they head back outside; here are their destinations.
 POWER tools whine in a boatyard. A boardwalk concession booth opens with a rusty clatter. Workers sprucing up summer cottages scrape gutters clean of leaves and twigs. Boats and houses lashed by saltwater and wind are slapped with fresh paint.
After a long winter's sleep, the shore is coming to life again. But each year, that sleep gets shorter.
By early spring, if the weather is sunny and warm, a growing number of people are already visiting beach resorts on weekends, walking the boardwalk, eating in restaurants or taking a boat out for a spin.
Back in the late 1950's, when I first worked as a lifeguard at an ocean beach club, there were only two seasons at the shore: the crush of activity between Memorial Day and Labor Day, then an unbroken hibernation for the next nine months.
Which suited the locals just fine. With the crowds and traffic gone, the boardwalk concessions shuttered and beach bungalows boarded up, they had the shore to themselves.
I had spent previous summers at beaches on Long Island and Cape Cod, but had never lived through a coastal winter until the fall of 1959, when a summer romance lingered past Labor Day. I spent that winter in a little community of Victorian homes called Island Heights on the Toms River in Ocean County.
I've been coming back ever since, and now make it my permanent home.
I'm not the only one.
The four counties that make up the Jersey Shore have a year-round population of about 1.4 million, more than double that in the 1950's, when the region did a booming summer business but was an economic backwater for the rest of the year. Newcomers like myself have discovered not only that summers are cooler than they are nearer New York, but that winters are warmer and autumn delicious, and that spring ushers in a splendid ripening well ahead of areas to the north.
But another big change was fostered by the growing population. Businesses like restaurants and shops can now remain open through the year, So city dwellers who feel the need to get away for the weekend for some fresh air and tranquility, exercise or partying, have available at the shore an infrastructure that has helped extend the summer season to the fat parts of spring and autumn.
Surer signs of spring than robins are "summer" residents arriving to open a house in Bay Head, Long Beach Island or Stone Harbor. Plumbers and house cleaners are in short supply this month.
The rapidly growing ranks of boat owners have their own rituals to usher in the season. On a sunny April weekend, marinas, yacht clubs and boatyards hum with the chores of spring -- power washing, scraping and painting, brightwork polishing. Starting those chores early pays off, because rivers and bays that will be cluttered with traffic in summer are sublimely uncrowded now.
A cold spring rain can make beach resort towns look as deserted and dreary as they are in January, when only the gulls walk the high tide line. But warm weekends bring out the crowds, visitors eager to get a head start on summer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anticipating Summer at the Shore
 
Map of New Jersey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES US LABOR DAY (89%); BEACHES (89%); HIKING (77%); CYCLING (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); RESORTS (66%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (55%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



202 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: Bootstraps;
'Not My Job.' 'Not Our Job.' So Whose Job Is It?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A GREAT battle was joined in the first 100 days of Speaker Newt Gingrich and Republican rule, and if you believe it was over taxes or welfare or the deficit, you are only a little right. The real struggle is over a vastly more important issue: who owes what to whom. This most hoary and basic of all social debates is usually afforded the reverence and inattention of great art: People know it's there and mostly, they ignore it.
 Whatever else happened in the last three months, the debate became impossible to ignore. For the last 60 years, the United States's version of the contract between man and society was clear: society's purpose was man's betterment. The incoming legislature has its own Contract, and it is not too much to say that it stands that concept on its head. 
 Until lately, that Government's duty was to set a minimum standard for civilized society, then raise the oppressed and the needy to that level. Now comes the Republican antithesis: what makes a civil society is not some mass standard, but each individual's freedom to pursue his own happiness -- and learn from the pain of his mistakes.
 The debate has usually come out of the museum case at times of widespread discontent, and this time public uneasiness with government -- and anger at those who conduct it -- is at a historic high. The debate was most recently joined on Friday, when Mr. Gingrich proclaimed his intention to "totally remake" the Government, after President Clinton threatened a "pile of vetos."

 
 
The Welfare Example
 Sure, this is deep stuff, but it is not only some joust between woolly-headed theorists. It is the subtext of dozens of the bills that the House churned out during the past three months. It is the core of the debate over welfare: Democrats insist that decency and equity require Federal standards for aid and a guarantee of help to all who qualify. Republicans say Federal standards and guarantees caused the welfare mess by easing the pain and stigma of illegitimacy and divorce. Their solution is a "Personal Responsibility Act" that wipes out the entitlement.
 The same ideological divide defines almost every political issue these days. Affirmative action? One side believes society has a duty to compensate for a legacy of discrimination. The other believes Federal dictates have hamstrung individual initiative. Ditto disputes over Federal regulations, or grazing rights, or pollution standards. Even tax cuts, Mr. Gingrich might argue, aren't political plums but an effort to siphon money away from Government's social agenda and back to the individual.
 In the sound-bitten parlance of this Congress, this is a battle between the we-are-all-guilty liberal apologists for the welfare state and the let-'em-starve Fagins of modern conservatism. Yet the real dispute -- where to draw the boundary between individual and collective interests -- is hardly so simple.
 America was founded on nothing if not the principle of individual freedom and responsibility. The pioneer and the cowboy are part of the national mythology. But mythology it is. Modern society is built on Government grants of collective rights: Social Security, access to the disabled, pensions to veterans and more.
 That being said, the last few years have seen a growing consensus that lack of individual responsibility, not an excess, is at the root of America's social crisis. On teen-age illegitimacy, fatherless homes and the mindless violence of urban society, Mr. Gingrich and President Clinton sound alike: social norms and structure have collapsed; actions are not seen as having consequences; role models are nonexistent. The dispute is over why this is so, and how to fix it. Here, the gaps are yawning.
 Most Democrats and some intellectuals tend to blame a culture of immediate gratification, an increasingly rootless society and an economy that no longer offers the unskilled jobs that once kept poor families afloat. They note that most other advanced nations are suffering similar spikes in illegitimacy and crime.
 Most important, they argue that the solution is a new compact -- to rebuild neighborhoods and communities and promote common moral and social foundations. It is an activist approach, led by founders of the communitarian movement like Amatai Etzioni of George Washington University and the Harvard political scientist Michael Sandel. William Galston, Mr. Etzioni's partner and co-author in the communitarian movement, is among the President's senior domestic advisers.
 Mr. Clinton has embraced communitarian tenets in his own designs for welfare reform, his efforts to create a national consensus on abortion and illegitimacy, and even his national service program.
 The new Republican order argues that activist government is not the solution, but the problem. In addressing illegitimacy, poverty and similar woes, the argument goes, Government has destroyed the notion that people are responsible for much of anything. Moreover, they say, the bureaucracies rarely help their individual clients. And so the new order's solution is to stop cushioning individuals from the other forces that once maintained civil society.

 
 
Both Ways, Please
 Opinion polls suggest that voters like the strength and simplicity of the Republican return to individual struggle. But clearly, they also worry that it conceals a mean streak that would punish the vulnerable. Thomas Mann, an the Brookings Institution analyst of government, states the public mood succinctly: "Americans want people to pull themselves up by their bootstraps," he said, "and they want government to help them."
 There is a thin line between rugged individualism and looking out for No. 1. The new Republican disdain for the crutch conveniently overlooks the most sweeping and by far the most expensive collective responsibilities in all Government, Medicare and Social Security. In the political castes, the very real arguments that Medicare has promoted a wasteful dependence on government, or that Social Security sped the breakup of the traditional family, are mentioned only in whispers.
 Democrats do not hesitate to conclude that the real impetus to the individual responsibilities movement is not ideology or reasoned analysis, but old-fashioned selfishness. Still others suggest that the new individualists are sugar-coating the state of society in the days before the Federal Government expanded society's collective duties. Stanley Wenocur, a professor and author at the University of Maryland in Baltimore, has studied the rise of modern social work, and says that the Federal Government took on welfare during the Depression for a simple reason: states and cities were too poor to provide anything but abysmal conditions.
 "We had a lot of suffering. A lot of suffering," he said. "We had an enormous amount of poverty: workhouses, serious social conditions. People died at earlier ages. There was a lot misery."
 The purest advocates of the conservative view allow that. An entire generation of dependents may simply pitch over should their Government props be kicked from beneath them, they say. But they add that that may be the price of teaching their children to stand by themselves. And they say that the situation could not get much worse.
 "We've made it possible for a teen-age girl to survive with no husband and no job," said David Boaz, the executive vice president of the Cato Institute, a libertarian organization. "That used to be very difficult. If we had more stigma and lower benefits, might we end up with 100,000 bastards every year rather than a million children born to alternative families?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (63%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL NEWT GINGRICH (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



203 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Unlucky Bucks;
In New Diplomatic Struggles, Money Is An Unreliable Ally

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
HERE'S one of the hard truths of the new world of economic diplomacy: Twenty billion dollars doesn't buy as much gratitude as it used to.
 If it did, American officials would not be sweating this week over whether Mexico, fresh from a $20billion American bailout, would undercut the savior of its economy by voting against President Clinton's effort to win an indefinite, worldwide extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 
 For weeks, the Administration has been twisting arms in Mexico City, trying to get the Government there to abandon its position -- endorsed by much of the third world -- that the treaty perpetuates the status quo between the nuclear haves and have-nots. Gently reminded that their country would be in national bankruptcy now if President Clinton had not rammed through an emergency financial aid package, the Mexicans have begun to hint a compromise might be possible.
 Another big beneficiary of American largess in recent years, Russia, is more recalcitrant. Last week President Boris N. Yeltsin rejected, yet again, Washington's warnings against providing Iran with $800 million to $1 billion in light-water nuclear reactors, a sale that will give the Iranians an enormous amount of nuclear expertise that the Administration fears will be used in their fledgling nuclear weapons program. The reactor sale would bring Russia at least $100 million more in hard currency than President Clinton is asking Congress to provide for the next fiscal year, and the deal is worth twice as much as the largely American-paid programs to convert Russia's military factories and dismantle its nuclear arsenal.
 Together, Mexico and Russia point up vexing problems with the new brand of dollar diplomacy: It creates fewer moral obligations than Washington would like to think, and oftentimes there is a roomful of other bidders. In the more optimistic opening days of the post-cold war era, it was easier to talk in one breath about the expansion of free markets and the spread of democratic -- read American -- values, as if they were nearly synonymous.
 Sometimes. Often, though, markets and national interests trip over each other. As a senior Administration official said, "the problem is that your foreign policy can look like an afternoon at Sotheby's."

 
 
Going Down
 As any currency trader will tell you, it is a problem that is likely to get worse. The alarmingly swift decline of the dollar on foreign exchange markets recently -- a 13 percent drop since Jan. 1 -- should be resounding as loudly in the State Department as it is at Treasury.
 In the few corners of the world where military might still prevails as the ultimate currency of American power, Secretary of State Warren Christopher doesn't need to spend much time back in the business pages, checking the foreign-exchange tables. But the decade-long slide of the dollar has had a subtle but perceptible impact on American influence, especially in those regions where the two big gainers of the currency sweepstakes, Japan and Germany, wield their clout.
 Such changes are hard to measure; money and power are never fully interchangeable. But one reason neither the Japanese nor the Germans are screaming too loudly about the rise of their currency -- even though it makes their exports more expensive -- is that they know there are hidden benefits to be reaped.
 Look almost anywhere in Southeast Asia. Over the next decade, the competition for the best footholds is a competition for strategic investment -- putting the right car factories in southern China (and sometimes bribing the right officials), buying into the partnership in Indonesia tied to the country's ruling circle, scooping up India's best software talent. Almost all of those deals are done in dollars, for all its recent weaknesses still the currency, used in more than half the world's international transactions.

 
 
Power Currencies
 "It is pretty obvious that it just became 13 percent cheaper for the Japanese to build their base camps," said Jeffrey Garten, the Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, who has led the charge to get American companies into big emerging markets. The same could be said for the Germans, and it's not for nothing that President Suharto of Indonesia spent time this month in Germany, presiding over the signing of deals with Siemens, Audi and Bayer.
 And for Germany and Japan, it's cheaper to provide foreign aid. For a while the United States and Japan were in a neck-and-neck race for the title of the world's biggest aid provider. Now, thanks partly to the dollar's fall, it's not even close.
 The power conveyed by strong currency is also felt in Europe, where the race to the East is going to the holders of German marks. Already the rise of the mark is creating resentments all over Europe, where Germany's strength is attracting jobs and investment at the expense of Spain, France and other neighbors. "What everyone knows is that in financial terms, at least, Germany can now call the tune on the economic integration of Europe," said David DeRosa, who heads currency trading at Swiss Bank Corporation in New York.
 Of course, the United States has always offered something beyond money: educational opportunity, open trading borders, an ideology and life style with selling power, military muscle -- areas where the Japanese do not compete. But as one Asian diplomat here noted recently with some derision, "good music, great movies and the Seventh Fleet" do not make up for investments that might narrow trade deficits.
 A weak dollar is hardly all bad: American exports are now cheaper than at any time in memory, and higher prices for imports can save jobs in marginal American industries. But some argue that Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin's insistence that a strong dollar is "in the national interest" is wrongheaded; push the dollar low enough, and Japanese and German industry will feel enough pain to get interested in opening markets and solving basic problems.
 Mr. Rubin insists that he would never use the dollar as a trade weapon. He also contended last week that the question of whether a weak dollar is undercutting American influence abroad "has not come up in any discussions I've been involved in" within the Administration. That itself is a remarkable observation about a White House that views its considerable advances in promoting free trade and nurturing emerging markets as its greatest foreign policy success.

 
 
No Deal
 It is also a White House that has been stymied in its efforts to bend market forces to meet its political objectives. When President Clinton banned Conoco Inc. from entering a $1 billion deal with Iran last month, the French happily stepped in. The Administration is also putting more pressure on Russia , warning that if the Iran reactor sale goes though, old and new nuclear coopoeration agreements may die on the vine.
 But the effort to induce China to improve its treatment of dissidents through "economic engagement" has failed to produce results. And the White House watered down a recent proposal for a "code of conduct" for American firms abroad, fearing that strict rules could put them at a disadvantage.
 Those experiences are all reminders that markets rarely care much about human rights, nonproliferation and the spread of democracy except to the extent that they lower costs and promote stability. Democracy's idea of a great vacation is a trip to ancient Athens; capitalism would rather hop on the next plane to Singapore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; RUSSIA; MEXICO (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



204 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: The World;
U.N.: Reason, in Small Doses, May Stop Genocide

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
THE Security Council paused for a moment of silence on Thursday to mark the date a year ago when the Presidents of Burundi and Rwanda died in a plane crash, setting off 100 days of genocidal violence in Rwanda that took hundreds of thousands of lives. When the minute ended, the Council quickly moved on to its next order of business: a formal valedictory on Somalia, a somber statement about lessons learned in a peacekeeping operation gone awry.
 In Somalia, Rwanda, Liberia, Mozambique, Angola twice -- and now, again, Burundi, where some kind of international intervention may be necessary to save a moderate center from both Hutu and Tutsi extremists -- the United Nations is accumulating a lot of experience in failing to head off grotesque little wars. 
 Wary of intruding where unwelcome and perennially reluctant to see any national interest in catastrophes far from home, the most powerful members of the United Nations are also learning, paradoxically, how much more it costs to pick up the shattered pieces of countries than to prevent conflict. But this reality has changed few minds, perhaps because political considerations outweigh humanitarian instincts until heart-wrenching, televised scenes become domestic prods to international action.

 
 
Antibiotics to Carnage
 In recent weeks, as reports began to circulate of massacres of hundreds of majority Hutu people in Burundi by minority Tutsi militias and possibly troops of the Tutsi-led army, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali stepped up his pleas to the Security Council for preemptive action. The United States, France and Germany, all Council members -- plus Belgium, the former colonial power in the East African region -- have been talking about what might be done, but without producing an action plan. A long delay in responding to violence in Rwanda a year ago is widely understood to have emboldened rampaging Hutu militias there, followed by vengeance-seeking Tutsi. Such delays send a message.
 "In 1993 the international community ignored thousands killed in Burundi the first time," said Alison DesForges, Rwanda consultant to Human Rights Watch, referring to violence that followed the assassination of Burundi's first elected Hutu President. "Planners of genocide in Burundi thought, we can go ahead with this. Then came the slow response in Rwanda in 1994, which encouraged people in Burundi again. And other parts of the world see this."
 As early as February, a high-level Security Council mission went to Burundi and made three innovative, nonmilitary suggestions to meet the scaled-back possibilities of the age: Set up an impartial judicial system, train impartial civilian police and investigators and establish good government in the provinces.
 Such suggestions may sound timid in the face of genocide. But these gestures are not nothing. If leading nations are not willing to commit troops (which countries in trouble might not want, in any case) the powerful can at least supply antibiotics to combat the disease of disintegration.
 But even then they have to factor in local sensibilities. Failure to do so risks charges of neocolonialism. Burundi, for example, took exception to the Security Council mission's characterization of its situation as "potentially explosive" and said in a letter to the Secretary General that the country already had a judicial system, police and provincial administrators. The Security Council warned Burundi that it could be brought under the criminal tribunal already set up for Rwanda -- which began its public work last week -- if ethnically based crimes continued.

 
 
Wary of Intervention
 Nongovernmental organizations, increasingly pivotal in delivering on pledges of nonmilitary assistance, are generally acutely aware of the sensitivities of small nations, however indefensible their actions. In Burundi, for example, major relief groups have cautioned against bringing outside military troops into the country too soon.
 Furthermore, though human rights groups and relief organizations are among the staunchest supporters of quick action in tension-ridden societies, there is concern among experts on Africa that disasters with common symptoms -- streams of displaced people, outbreaks of disease and widespread starvation and deaths -- have left the false impression that the roots of crisis may be the same in all or most African countries. Misreading the differences may mean misdiagnoses.
 Somalia, which has been unable to form a working coalition government to rebuild the country, has been ruled by regional clans for much of its history and lacks an impartial civil service. But Rwanda and Burundi are not tribal in social structure and have a history of strong central, provincial and local government.
 "Rwanda is not a failed state," says Ms. DesForges. "It was very efficient in mobilizing genocide. It used its administrative hierarchy, military hierarchy and militia structure. It was organized down to units of 10 households."
 Mr. Boutros-Ghali says clues to impending disaster are detectable long beforehand. "Genocide does not happen spontaneously," he wrote last week on the opinion page of the International Herald Tribune. "Genocide is planned and perpetrated by cynical leaders who believe they can get away with it -- and profit from it. In most cases there are abundant danger signs long before the killing begins."
 One of those dangers, a diplomat from Burundi said last week, is the collapse of confidence in a country's leaders and their ability to guarantee security. People unsure of their safety are fertile ground for propaganda and rumor. "The problem of Burundi now is a problem of confidence," he told reporters.
 Lionel Rosenblatt of Refugees International agrees, but asks: "How do you help a society deal with this? Our international tools are not very good. It does not fall into anyone's job description."
 When a pogrom begins, a sense of panic only grows as escape routes close. Last week, Tanzania, traditionally a welcoming country, began to push back refugees from both Burundi and Rwanda.
 To grapple with these psychological precursors to violence and retribution, say refugee groups, the United Nations and Western embassies in Africa and elsewhere, it is important to support the introduction of independent and objective radio broadcasts to provide reassuring information and counter hate-mongering like that of the Rwandan Hutu radio Milles Collines, which fueled genocidal rampages.
 In Burundi, the United States Ambassador, Robert Krueger, has been turning over evidence of atrocities he collects in remote areas to the local press because, he said, reporters have not been writing about attacks by extremists on either side. The American Embassy also backs a government program to send teams of legislators and officials into every administrative district to assess causes of violence, which may be political, economic or criminal as well as ethnic. Accurate information is a powerful weapon, diplomats say.
 But with all the suggestions now on the table, what was that most important lesson from last week's Security Council statement on Somalia? Without local commitment, all else may be useless. "The people of Somalia," the statement said, "bear the ultimate responsibility for achieving national reconciliation and restoring peace to Somalia."

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RWANDA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); SOMALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); FRANCE (69%); BELGIUM (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA; BURUNDI; RWANDA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); SOMALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); FRANCE (69%); BELGIUM (54%); 

SUBJECT: HUTU TRIBE; TUTSI TRIBE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (87%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); ARMIES (77%); ASSASSINATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



205 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Guatemala's War: Ideology Is the Latest Excuse

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: GUATEMALA

 BODY:
TWO centuries before the modern-day massacres of Mayan Indians by the Guatemalan army, King Charles III of Spain was troubled by the massacres with which his soldiers had smothered the Mayan revolts of 1760 and 1764. So he dispatched a special church envoy to Guatemala to find a way to bring peace to his turbulent colony of vast sugar and indigo plantations.
 But the emissary, Archbishop Pedro Cortes y Larraza, found only an enduring resistance by the Mayas to their virtual slavery, and he wrote back that these "wretched people" have "an aversion and absolute hate for anything Spanish." 
 The Archbishop's report is now merely a footnote to the 300-year history of 30 Mayan rebellions, not counting the current civil war, which has taken the lives of more than 100,000 Indians and is now sputtering to an end.
 But it suggests that Guatemala required neither Karl Marx nor the Central Intelligence Agency to be consumed by class and ethnic war, and that the Guatemalan army, currently in the news because some of its officers received secret C.I.A. payments, is essentially finishing the job that the conquistadors started.
 The cross and the sword have been replaced by modern counterinsurgency tactics, but the essential driving forces of Guatemalan history remain the same. Land-hungry Indian peasants become squatters on the lands of the wealthy, who pay the police to make the Indians "disappear." Local army officers rule their provinces as a dictator might, mobilizing Indians as militias at the point of a gun, and dealing in contraband like stolen cars and rare timber woods. The wealthy press the Government to keep their taxes low while schools, sewage and health care for the Indian majority remain abysmal, far behind the standards of most of Latin America, let alone the industrialized north. One American diplomat said conditions in the Guatemalan interior were deteriorating and could eventually rival Haiti's.
 While nearly half of the 9.7 million Guatemalans, like most of their fellow Latin Americans, are descended from unions between the Spanish colonizers and indigenous Indians, the other half are considered of pure Indian heritage -- and these people "remain largely outside the country's political, social and economic mainstream," according to a recent United Nations human rights report. Guatemala's overall literacy rate is 52 percent, but only 29 percent of the Indians can read and write.

 
 
The Very Few Rich
 With the exception of a microscopic white minority, who own the sugar and coffee plantations and do business with international companies, almost everyone who isn't an Indian is a mestizo, or in Guatemalan parlance, a "Ladino." Dress and an acute language barrier (the Indians speak 23 distinct regional tongues) distinguish the Mayas from their fellow Guatemalans more than the color of their skins.
 Guatemala's sharp ethnic divide and vestiges of the colonial social order constitute the crucial backdrop rarely mentioned during the Congressional hearings and public debate about what the C.I.A. did here. While Americans often treat a C.I.A.-sponsored coup in 1954 as the root cause of four decades of guerrilla warfare, Guatemalan analysts take a longer view.
 In a column published last week in the Guatemalan newspaper Prensa Libre, Jorge Guzman wrote that the newest C.I.A. scandal echoed the long history of foreigners "invading" Guatemala, beginning with "the arrival of a thousand Pizarros." He noted that "even the Franciscan Friar Diego De Landa, who lived among the Mayas for 30 years, implanted his faith by torture."

 
 
No Prompting Needed
 Revelations that Col. Julio Roberto Alpirez, who had long been a paid C.I.A. informer, was implicated in the murders of an American innkeeper as well as an Indian guerrilla leader who had married an American have touched off investigations by the Clinton Administration and Congress. The Administration has promised a review of every member of the Guatemalan military who received payments from the C.I.A. over the last 15 years.
 But whatever information emerges about the extent to which American agents supported or condoned Guatemalan intelligence officers in their war against the guerrillas, their Indian supporters and vast numbers of peasants living in the areas of conflict, the fact remains that Guatemalans do not need prompting to kill one another.
 "I don't fear the C.I.A. that much," said a student activist who wore a long mask to hide his identity as he asked pedestrians in downtown Guatemala City for donations to finance a student anti-Government march. "The repression is Guatemalan."
 Guatemala's cycles of violence go back to the early 16th century, when Hernan Cortes sent his deputy, Pedro de Alvarado, with a force of 120 cavalry, 300 infantry and an auxiliary unit of Mexican Indian fighters to conquer a Mayan people weakened by their own divisions. The conquistadors slashed and burned their way through the highlands, and then created cheap pools of labor through church-controlled "congregaciones" not unlike the strategic hamlets the Guatemalan army created in the 1980's.
 The Mayan resistance persisted through the colonial period in many forms. When not rebelling, the Indians resisted Spanish efforts to destroy their culture, usually by wrapping their traditions into those of their oppressor. When the Spanish gave them chickens to eat, they sacrificed them to their pre-Columbian gods. They acknowledged the Catholic saints, but as variations of their own deities. One bizarre religious cult persists throughout the country in which a pipe-smoking Indian named Maximon is saint-like in every respect except for his penchant for drinking hard moonshine.
 Modern Guatemalan political history began not with the coup of 1954, but with the so-called "liberal revolution" of 1871. With Mexican financial backing, General Justo Rufino Barrios took control of the Government and then expropriated most communal Indian, as well as church, properties.
 A proud collector of guitars, bulls and books, General Barrios was an adherent of 19th century European liberal thinking about free markets and free trade. For him, the traditional Indians stood in the way of progress, a notion that permeates the modern Guatemalan army, which he founded. When an Indian insurgency broke out, he burned crops to starve the rebels and forcibly resettled Indians who backed them.
 The "liberal era" persisted until October 1944, when young army officers inspired by Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal staged a coup. The reformist Government founded agrarian cooperatives for the peasantry, and tried to bring the Indian majority into the Ladino mainstream by launching a Spanish-language literacy campaign in Mayan communities.
 Washington cautiously supported the reformist Government, until the 1950 election of Colonel Jacobo Arbenz, who lurched the "October Revolution" far to the left.
 Arbenz promised to soothe ancient antagonisms with a sweeping land reform. But he misjudged how the international tensions generated after World War II would first eclipse his efforts and then intensify the Guatemalan impulses toward both repression and rebellion. By surrounding himself with Communist Party advisers, accepting arms from Czechoslovakia and building a port to compete with United Fruit's facilities, Arbenz challenged the United States at the height of the cold war.

 
 
The 1954 Coup
 President Eisenhower's C.I.A. organized a Guatemalan invasion force and bombed Guatemala City in 1954. Arbenz panicked, his Government quickly collapsed, and forces that had been building over so many centuries were unleashed with a new fury. In the decades that followed, Marxist guerrillas, most of them Ladinos, established footholds and, by the early 1980's, had succeeded in recruiting tens of thousands of land-hungry Indian peasants to their cause.
 And the Guatemalan army, ever the defender of the status quo, was ready to fill its traditional role -- and then some.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two worlds in Guatamala: An Indian woman and two soldiers at a festival at Guamarcaaj, a former Mayan capital destroyed by the Spaniards. (Jean-Marie Simon/from "Guatamala: Etenal Spring--Eternal Tyrany")(pg.1); Country life: In northern Quiche in Guatemala's interior, Ixil Indians lined up to vote in 1990. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg.5); In training: Cadets from the Adolfo Hall military academy in Guatemala's capital. (Jean-Marie Simon/from "Guatemala: Eternal Spring-Eternal Tyranny")(pg.5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); HAITI (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; GUATEMALA (99%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); HAITI (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; MAYANS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIGION (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); COFFEE FARMING (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (64%); LITERACY RATES (60%); COFFEE (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD RICK PERRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



206 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Faster. Farther. Higher.;
Faking It on Broadway

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

 BODY:
THE most powerful man on Broadway has some trouble keeping good help. It's easy to see why.
 Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber is, of course, the composer of "Jesus Christ Superstar," "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," "Cats," "Evita," "Starlight Express," "The Phantom of the Opera," "Aspects of Love" and "Sunset Boulevard." He's also the owner of a media conglomerate, the Really Useful Group, that produces his shows, owns theaters in Europe, is moving into movies and had a pre-tax profit of more than $70 million last year. 
 That puts him up near the economic stratosphere that Steven Spielberg and David Geffen fly in. But his behavior is more in the feisty -- and sometimes bizarre -- traditions of Broadway hypemeisters like David Merrick or Florenz Ziegfeld, for whom business was always personal.
 Ten days ago, Sir Andrew's chief of North American operations was caught inflating box-office figures for two weeks of "Sunset Boulevard" performances -- the weeks that its star, Glenn Close, was on vacation. Sir Andrew's response was to release a letter blaming the whole thing on the executive, Edgar Dobie, and calling the idea "idiotic." But it concluded by saying that Mr. Dobie's decision to have the understudy, Karen Mason, rather than a guest star cover for Ms. Close "far outweighs his mistake" and that "accordingly, I have refused to accept his resignation."
 Despite the public drubbing and the non-sequitur reasoning -- why weigh a good casting decision against fraud? -- Mr. Dobie is apparently still at work. For Really Useful, this is probably a good thing; Mr. Dobie has been well-liked on the Great White Way, which sometimes feels like a high-stakes kindergarten.
 The squabble grew uglier five days later when an angry letter from Ms. Close to Sir Andrew leaked out. She expressed disgust with the attempt to suggest that she was not crucial to the show and said she felt like quitting immediately. But the next day, she and Sir Andrew issued a joint statement saying they had patched things up.
 Neither Mr. Dobie, Sir Andrew nor Ms. Close returned calls seeking interviews.
 What remained unclear was why such a silly mistake was made, and how people who pay public relations firms so handsomely could have let the fight get so out of hand.
 Broadway is not a large industry; it sold $356 million worth of tickets last season, which gives it about the same gross income as, for example, the Starter Corporation, which makes sports jackets and caps. (It makes another $600 million a year from touring shows.) But it's got that Rialto romance, and it drives much of New York's tourist industry, so the handful of big producers and stars are heavily watched.
 It also may be the only industry where everyone knows, week by week, how their rivals are doing. Every show reports to Variety how many people bought tickets and how much they paid. With an educated guess about running costs and a little pencil work, it's possible to figure out whether your worst enemy is making money or not -- and to give him a sad shake of the head as you pass each other in Shubert Alley.
 That makes for some pretty desperate egos.
 "Sunset" has been a virtual sellout since it opened in November. For the two weeks Ms. Close was gone, 5,462 seats -- about 20 percent -- were unsold. Mr. Dobie gave or sold them at deep discounts to charitable organizations. So the chairs were filled. The lie was telling Variety that they'd been sold at full price.
 Be it said, there's no crime involved. The official box office treasurer's report, which is used to pay royalties to authors and profits to investors and therefore is subject to criminal fraud statutes, had accurate figures: ticket receipts were $569,720, not the $724,780 reported to Variety. Mr. Dobie just didn't realize that an enterprising Variety reporter could get hold of a box-office report.
 Rival Broadway producers -- refusing to let their names be used -- expressed doubts that Mr. Dobie had acted without consulting anyone back in Britain. And some wondered: why hadn't Really Useful just bought the tickets? It would have cost $300,000, but most would have returned to the company's own pockets, and a lot of mess would have been avoided. Unless, the more cynical reasoned, the mess made headlines, which sell tickets.
 And to be fair, no producer was exactly morally outraged. Many, like Cy Feuer, who began putting on shows in the 1940's, resent the practice of opening their books.
 "In the grand tradition of show business, he lied to Variety?" Mr. Feuer said. "I'd give him a raise."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber and Glenn Close at the opening of "Sunset Boulevard." (Associated Press); Karen Mason, the understudy. (Joan Marcus/Boneau Bryan-Brown)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SUNSET BOULEVARD (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (77%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: STARTER CORP (60%); REALLY USEFUL GROUP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (77%); UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); RELIGION (77%); MOVIE REVENUES (75%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FILM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); TICKET SALES (67%); THEATER (58%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: DOBIE, EDGAR; LLOYD WEBBER, ANDREW; MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; CLOSE GLENN DAVID GEFFEN (73%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



207 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Europe's Leaders See Green

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
AT the United Nations conference on climate change last week, which called for a new accord to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, the debates revealed one striking difference between the northern European countries and the United States.
 Because the European countries are so much more thickly settled than the United States, there is a much higher consciousness here of the urgency of environmental problems and of the need for joint action to confront them. The political success of Green parties has awakened other parties, even some of the most conservative, to the importance that voters attach to environmental issues. And politicians find it easier to denounce environmental criminals in a part of the world where many of the criminals have been Communist regimes rather than powerful corporations. 
 Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who is considered one of Europe's more conservative leaders, set the tone. The greenhouse effect "threatens to thwart our efforts toward economic development and increased prosperity," he told the conference. "By 1997, we must have agreed on a climate protection protocol which covers all greenhouse gases, lays down clear objectives and target dates for their reduction, and determines all measures necessary to achieve this aim."
 In the United States, by contrast, "there is no constituency" pressing for new limits on the gases that are slowly warming the earth's atmosphere, lamented Under Secretary of State Timothy Wirth, who headed the United States delegation. "This issue is just not on the radar screen in the United States. It's a very frustrating position to be in."
 Even at top levels of government, the tone of public rhetoric on environmental topics is much sharper and more urgent in Europe than in the United States. Some American industrialists attribute this not so much to altruism as to a calculation that global environmental restrictions would cost producers in Europe less than those in America, thus producing a trade advantage.
 Adam Markham, an official of the World Wildlife Federation who has worked on both sides of the Atlantic, offered this explanation: "Because the United States is so big, many Americans feel isolated from other countries. Europeans are constantly discussing which policies in one country are having effects on other countries. In the United States there's a feeling that everything needed to control environmental destruction can be decided at home, that there's no real need for international instruments." STEPHEN KINZER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EARTH (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; WEATHER; WEATHER GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (67%); WILDLIFE (67%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (56%); HELMUT KOHL (56%); TIMOTHY E WIRTH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



208 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
New York, Lost and Found

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER 

 BODY:
WHEN Mayor Robert F. Wagner signed a bill 30 years ago this month to create the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, he intended to stop, or at least slow down, New York's notorious tendency to sell off its greatest architectural works for a mess of pottage. If the law could have assured no more disasters like the demolition of the old Pennsylvania Station in 1963, its framers would have been happy.
 But the law has done much more than keeping the wreckers away from famous buildings -- so much more that it may be the single most influential piece of legislation affecting land use in New York since the first zoning laws went on the books in 1916. The law, which decreed that buildings important to the city's "cultural, social, economic, political or architectural history" be preserved unless a compelling legal case could be made for their demolition, has changed the nature of planning and architecture in the city and in the whole country. It has been copied by cities and towns around the nation, and it has been the legal platform on which a whole culture of historic preservation has been built. 
 When New York decided that it was the proper role of government to save valued buildings, other cities followed -- slowly at first, and then, after the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the landmarks law in 1978, with more determination. Before New York got into the preservation business in 1965, two years after Penn Station was torn down to make way for a new Madison Square Garden, only two other major cities, Charleston and New Orleans, had done anything to save historic buildings, and their laws applied only to specific historic districts. New York's law gave the landmarks commission the power to cast its net over the entire city.

 
 
Saved from the Dumps
 And cast it did. From a tentative start, the commission grew bolder and bolder, to the point where 1,021 individual buildings have now been designated as city landmarks. Penn Station may have been carted off to the dumps, but Grand Central Terminal, the New York Public Library, the Plaza Hotel and skyscrapers from the Woolworth Building to Lever House will be with us forever.
 And the establishment of 66 historic districts has had an even more sweeping effect on the cityscape: with 20,178 brownstones and row houses and loft buildings from SoHo to Brooklyn Heights to the Upper West Side protected under these blanket designations, the mold of the urban form has quite literally been set. No zoning law could have saved the elegant limestone townhouse blocks of the Upper East Side from the pressures of redevelopment in the boom of the 1980's; landmark designation was the only tool that kept that neighborhood together.
 By now landmarking is such an established concept that the real problem facing the commission is not skepticism over the idea of saving historic buildings, but the belief that the commission has already designated everything worth saving. After all, 1,021 is a lot of buildings, and that list includes virtually every New York structure in the architectural history books. What more is the landmarks commission to do?
 Plenty. As the city evolves, so does the very concept of landmarking and the sense of what saving history actually means. The buildings that are now designated landmarks are largely, though not entirely, the solid, grand buildings of the haute bourgeoisie; they represent the architectural legacy of the people, largely European immigrants, who built New York in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
 But the New York taking shape now is a very different city, and it may well leave a different architectural legacy. The landmarks commission has begun in the last few years to pay more attention to architecture in poor and working-class neighborhoods, and to acknowledge that there is both historic and esthetic value to many buildings that are not Beaux Arts palaces of granite and limestone. In the coming years the commission will have the challenge of seeing that the roster of landmarks continues to reflect the cultures shaping the city's history now.
 And then there is the question of the city's newer buildings. Since the landmarks legislation makes buildings eligible for designation once they are 30 years old -- the exact age of the commission now -- the whole question of the architecture of the 1960's is coming into play. For years it has been fashionable in architectural circles to denounce the skyscrapers and apartment buildings of the 1960's as worthless commercial trash -- but the Art Deco buildings of the 1930's were once called that, too. Will time mellow our views of the 1960's as it has mellowed our views of the '30's? Will anything from the decade that gave New York Lincoln Center and the Pan Am building be worth designating? The commission will soon have to decide.
 There is yet another challenge. Preservation may seem an established part of life in New York and other major cities, but to many people -- from right-wing ideologues to property owners outraged at having to get approval for minor changes to their buildings' facades -- it represents an unfair intrusion into individual rights. The anti-regulatory spirit of the Republican Congress is no friend to preservationists.
 Indeed, if most landmarks legislation were Federal rather than local it would probably already be a target of the Republican Contract With America, which has made it a goal to dilute Federal environmental legislation. Localities are not immune to the current anti-regulatory mood; the backlash can't bode well for the security of landmarks in many communities. Paradoxically, historic preservation is inherently conservative -- what is it, after all, but keeping the best of the old? -- yet because preservation interferes with the free market, it has traditionally been seen as part of the liberal agenda.

 
 
End of the Urban Frontier
 Perhaps because New York has always been a city more comfortable than many with governmental intervention in the free market, there seems little danger that the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission's mandate will be reduced, whatever the national mood. In fact, 30 years of the landmarks commission have brought about a sea change in New York. Until the commission was established, New York had always been a city that tore itself down and built itself up relentlessly, with little sense of a history; it was an urban frontier, the last century's equivalent of Silicon Valley, a place that thinks only of a future, and never of a past.
 The establishment of the landmarks commission was the moment when this ferocious and adolescent city first admitted that there were parts of itself worth handing down to future generations. It was a rite of maturation. If the creation of New York's skyscrapers marked the beginnings of the city's role as one of the world's great and powerful urban centers, the establishment of the landmarks commission marked its move into a kind of adulthood.
 No longer was New York content merely to make and then let circumstances destroy; like the child who stops wanting to tear down his sand castle at the end of a day at the beach, the city began after 1965 to ponder the notion of permanence. That is the real legacy of the 30 years of landmarks legislation: for better or for worse, New York began to think of itself not as a place that continually remakes itself anew, but as a mature city.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The way it was: The Landmarks Commission was bornafter Penn Station was razed. (The New York Times); Penn Station's pieces are buried in Seacaucus Meadows. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC) GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC SITES (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ZONING (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LIBRARIES (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



209 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: BANK REGULATORS TAKING CLOSE LOOK AT LENDING RISKS

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
Increasingly concerned that American banks are taking more risks, top regulators are moving to rein in aggressive competition among banks seeking to make business and consumer loans.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, a Treasury Department agency that oversees the nation's 3,400 federally chartered banks, announced today that its most experienced credit analysts would form a committee to double-check whether the nation's large banks are taking excessive risks. The committee will work with the agency's bank examiners, who already conduct periodic reviews of banks' business practices. 
 Banks are charging many customers, particularly large companies, interest rates that barely exceed the banks' own borrowing costs. Banks are also offering more generous terms on loans, like longer periods for repayment. There is even some evidence that banks are offering more loans to companies and people with bad credit records, although regulators disagree on the extent to which this is a problem.
In recent months, Eugene A. Ludwig, the Comptroller of the Currency; Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and other regulators have been giving speeches to bankers urging restraint. But the actions of the Comptroller's office, in creating a new credit-review committee, raises those relatively mild warnings to a new level.
If the new committee or the examiners find excessively risky loans, the examiners responsible for the bank will ask -- or, if necessary, order -- changes in bank lending policies, Mr. Ludwig said in a speech to bankers today.
He also warned in the speech about a trend among banks to issue credit cards, auto loans and second mortgages to borrowers with such bad credit histories that they previously had to turn, in some cases, to finance companies and other lenders catering to risky borrowers.
Separately, the Federal Reserve has urged its bank examiners to be thorough. "I am concerned that there has been some pursuit of market share at the risk of not getting properly compensated for the risk in the loan," John P. LaWare, the Federal Reserve governor who heads the central bank's committee on bank regulation, said in an interview on Friday.
Mr. LaWare said he was concerned about banks' offering low interest rates and generous loan terms but was less worried that banks might be making loans to customers with bad credit histories.
Bankers have also begun talking among themselves about their fears that intense competition for business is forcing them to take too many risks and causing some of them to lose sight of more cautious practices instituted after the collapse of the commercial real estate market in the late 1980's.
Banks and their regulators have been on a roller-coaster ride in recent years. Lax regulation was blamed for allowing much of the savings and loan debacle of the 1980's -- which wound up costing taxpayers $200 billion as the Government seized and shut insolvent institutions.
When banks and savings institutions then adopted much stricter standards during the economic downturn of the early 1990's, they were blamed for causing the credit crunch that left many small and medium-sized businesses struggling to find loans.
The regulators' new worries this year follow shifts in bank activities prompted by rising interest rates. Banks have sought to increase their commercial lending as profits on Government securities have dwindled. At the same time, the most creditworthy companies have been raising money by selling notes and bonds instead of seeking bank loans.
While regulators do not have the power to dictate specific standards of creditworthiness or profit margins on loans, they have considerable influence over bank policies.
Mounting evidence reinforces the regulators' concerns. A recent survey by the National Association of Home Builders found that 61 percent of its members were able to borrow money to build homes without lining up buyers in advance.
"Banks that wouldn't talk to us a couple years ago are calling us," David F. Seiders, the group's chief economist, said.
The latest indication of aggressive bank lending came late Friday afternoon, when the Federal Reserve announced that automobile loans rose at an annual rate of 10.5 percent in February, while outstanding balances on revolving consumer loans -- mainly credit cards -- shot up at an annual pace of 22 percent.
According to the text of Mr. Ludwig's speech, which was released in advance to the press, Mr. Ludwig told the chief executives of the nation's largest banks at a closed-door meeting today in Naples, Fla., that examiners would recommend specific measures to banks with particularly inadequate credit controls. He labeled these banks as "outliers" -- that is, banks that were the exceptions rather than the rule.
"In those cases, I hope we can depend on management to act voluntarily," the text said. "However, where we find outliers and where these outliers maintain low credit standards we will not hesitate to require appropriate changes in policy."
Until now, most of the evidence of aggressive lending practices has been anecdotal. But in his speech, Mr. Ludwig provided detailed information gathered over the last year by a team of analysts at his agency.
Their analyses show that banks first cut their profit margins for loans to companies with creditworthy AA ratings, then cut them for loans to less creditworthy companies with BB ratings. In each case, according to Mr. Ludwig's text, the reductions in profit margins were followed by banks' moves to allow more generous terms on other loan features.
Christopher L. Snyder, the president of the Loan Pricing Corporation, a Manhattan financial data company, said banks had become more generous on terms like the maturity of loans, offering five-year loans to companies that several years ago would have received only two-and-a-half year loans. Longer-term loans are more risky because more can go wrong at the borrowing company as each year passes.
Regulators generally say that financial institutions are controlling risks somewhat better now than they did in the late 1980's. Mr. Snyder said, for instance, that banks were now more cautious about lending large sums to a single borrower, choosing instead to resell parts of large loans to many other banks. "The thing that kills banks is big exposures to specific borrowers," he said.
Yet credit card issuers have become particularly aggressive, Mr. Ludwig said. "Some issuers are targeting consumers with less-than-stellar credit reports, because they know these customers are likely to carry larger balances," the text of his speech said. "But these banks should also remember the fact that when the economy weakens, these are often the first customers adversely affected."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (87%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING LAW (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); SECOND MORTGAGES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (62%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; LUDWIG, EUGENE A (COMPTROLLER) ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



210 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-15
 
A REAPPRAISAL OF VIETNAM
Robert S. McNamara, once a champion of escalating the Vietnam War, has concluded in a new memoir that the United States should have withdrawn earlier. 1
 
CHECHEN HEALTH CARE CRISIS
Like most things in the capital of the Russian breakaway republic of Chechnya, Grozny, the health care system is in ruins, with only three civilian hospitals functioning. 3 

U.S. WARNING TO RUSSIA
The United States has warned Russia that unless it cancels a project to build nuclear reactors in Iran, plans for American-Russian nuclear cooperation will be dropped. 4
 
ELECTION RACE IN PERU
President Alberto K. Fujimori, credited with reorganizing Peru's economy and crushing a long guerilla insurgency, appears on his way to re-election. 10
 
FEARS FOR MACEDONIA
A resurgence of fighting in Bosnia and a reduction of United Nations forces in Croatia have renewed fears that the Balkan conflict will move south into Macedonia. 12
 
Mexican Government officials to talk with peasant rebels. 10
 
National 16-40
 
BANK LOANS UNDER SCRUTINY
Fearing that lending risks are rising, Federal regulators are moving to rein in aggressive competition among banks for new business. 1
 
SEQUEL TO REPUBLICAN CONTRACT
The next 100 days of the Republican-led 104th Congress will probably be more momentous than the first 100 days were. 1
 
NEW ANTI-ABORTION TACTIC
A lawyer for an Arizona anti-abortion group has adopted a tactic worrisome to doctors who perform abortions: malpractice suits. 1
 
THE PEROT FACTOR, REDUX
The followers of Ross Perot, still angry with the nation's political system, are debating whether to stand with the Republicans in 1996 or form a third party. 1
 
REASSESSING DEFEAT
Since losing the Civil War, the South has clung to an underdog valor, but a new tourist attraction, Lee's Retreat, shows that is changing.16
 
TOWN'S UNPLEASANT PROSPECTS
An Alabama town is faced with losing a military base's economic presence and with having to deal with its toxic garbage. 16
 
PRIVATE SCHOOLING
A Pittsburgh suburb has dealt with its financial problems by laying off teachers and hiring a private company to run one of its schools. 26
 
Metropolitan 41-48, 60
 
RESTORING BROOKLYN'S BACKYARD
Brooklyn's last forest, which covers half the 525-acre Prospect Park, is dying, a victim of mountain bikes and millions of footsteps. Now, after a Federal report warned that the woodlands face extinction, supporters have developed a multimillion-dollar, 25-year plan to restore the borough's arboreal soul. 1
 
PATAKI RISKS WATER WARS
Governor Pataki is threatening to disrupt the peace over precious drinking water from the Delaware River. He wants to withdraw New York's financing from the four-state Delaware River Basin Commission, which drafts rules on water allocation, pollution, flood control and drought management. 41
 
TOUGH TIMES FOR CABDRIVERS
Economic shifts have made driving a yellow cab in New York a far tougher way to make a living than it was only a few years ago. 41
 
Restaurantgoers view Tim Zagat as something of an icon. 41
 
Obituaries 50
 
Alton Meister, a biochemist involved in AIDS research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CROATIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RIVERS (87%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); POLITICS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); ABORTION (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (62%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



211 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2417 words

HEADLINE: A New Weapon In an Old War -- A special report.;
Latest Tactic Against Abortion: Accusing Doctors of Malpractice

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

DATELINE: PHOENIX

 BODY:
Dr. Brian Finkel, whose practice consists mostly of performing abortions, sounds matter of fact when he talks about the bullet-proof window in his office, the bullet-proof vest and helmet he wears walking to his car, the guns he carries, the years of demonstrations outside his office and the threats he has received.
But he sounds thoroughly outraged -- and, in his own bluff way, hurt -- when he gets on to the subject of John Joseph Jakubczyk, general counsel to Arizona Right to Life, and the newest anti-abortion strategy: malpractice suits against the doctors who perform abortions. 
 "John Jakubczyk is a lawyer, an officer of the court, who has abused his professional power to harass me and intimidate my patients," Dr. Finkel said. "The suits he filed against me have dirtied my name. They have made me uninsurable for most insurance carriers. They made me pay legal fees to defend myself. I am committed to providing women with a service they need, but I have begun to wonder if it's worth it. You get hit about the head with a two-by-four long enough and you finally say, ouch, that hurts."
While abortion-malpractice lawsuits are a new phenomenon in much of the country, they are almost routine for Mr. Jakubczyk, who has filed nine of them in the last decade. Besides two against Dr. Finkel, Mr. Jakubczyk has also filed malpractice claims against the local Planned Parenthood affiliate, the A-Z Women's Center, a doctor at Abortion Services of Phoenix and a doctor at the Family Planning Institute.
So far, Mr. Jakubczyk has had little success. He lost the only case that went to trial. Most have been dismissed or withdrawn. And in one case against Dr. Finkel, the judge thought the charges so flimsy that he fined Mr. Jakubczyk for filing a frivolous suit, but the fine was later overturned by an appeals court.
"The problem is, even if they lose, they win," said Dr. Finkel, who has faced six abortion malpractice suits, some filed by other lawyers than Mr. Jakubczyk, which were all dismissed. "Whatever happens in court, they've had the press conference, and I've been damaged. I'm paying $25,000 a year for insurance now, and I'm not allowed to practice out of state, all because of this developing art form of legal misconduct."
In response to Dr. Finkel's complaint, the Arizona bar is investigating whether Mr. Jakubczyk's lawsuits violate ethical standards.
Like any other surgery, abortion carries its risks. And there is nothing new about an occasional malpractice suit when a doctor's bad care has caused severe injury or death.
What is new is the number of abortion malpractice suits now being filed -- and who is filing them. Increasingly, lawyers associated with anti-abortion groups, rather than malpractice specialists, are seeking out claims against doctors who do abortions.
According to J. Thomas Smith, a partner in a new law firm devoted to abortion malpractice, only 86 abortion-malpractice verdicts have been issued in the last 10 years. While no one knows how many current cases will end in verdicts, Life Dynamics Inc., an anti-abortion group in Denton, Tex., that is encouraging such suits, says it is involved in 80 cases.
 
Legal Advice
A Wide Variety Of Services
 Many new cases go beyond traditional malpractice claims. Life Dynamics, which attracted 125 people to Dallas for a two-day seminar last year on abortion malpractice, has provided much of the impetus and legal research for expanding the kinds of cases brought against doctors who do abortions.
For example, it offers research and expert witnesses on post-abortion trauma who say women often suffer the same kind of long-term psychological problems after abortions as soldiers do after wars, a concept that was examined and rejected by both former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop and the American Psychological Association.
Life Dynamics advises lawyers to consider charging doctors with battery if the woman's formal consent can be challenged.
In a mass mailing to doctors, Life Dynamics advised them to tell women of studies tying abortions to a higher risk of breast cancer and asked them to refer any patients who have had an abortion and are now diagnosed with breast cancer to Life Dynamics for "inclusion in a proposed class-action lawsuit."
Mark Crutcher, the president of Life Dynamics, said his group had more than 600 lawyers in its "Abmal" network, 40 percent of whom, he said, support abortion rights. The network offers lawyers ads soliciting clients ("Don't be a victim for the rest of your life"), expert witnesses, courses to teach women how to testify effectively, dossiers on abortion doctors and even a loan of the medical instruments used in abortion for lawyers to use in showing a jury what was done.
"There are more women than we ever dreamed of getting killed, raped, assaulted and severely injured," Mr. Crutcher said. "We've got over 2,500 examples."
Life Dynamics is not the only group encouraging these suits. In Pensacola, Fla., Mike Conroy says his organization, Legal Action for Women, gets about 10 calls a day on its toll-free line, 1-800-U-CAN-SUE, from women who say they have been injured by an abortion.
Mr. Conroy's group, like Life Dynamics, refers women to lawyers who will handle such cases, and both groups provide materials to hand out to women leaving abortion clinics.
Last year, several lawyers from different states established a firm, Swendsen, Amshoff, Donovan & Smith, to handle abortion malpractice work. Ted Amshoff, of Louisville, Ky., said the firm had 20 open cases, including 4 in which women died as a result of abortions.
 
Motives
Legal Harassment Or Honest Claims
 Many abortion doctors, clinics and women's advocacy groups see the new malpractice suits as a form of harassment motivated by anti-abortion ideology.
"These are bogus lawsuits," said Pamela Maraldo, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America. "Where there is malpractice, where a bad doctor is injuring women -- of course we want that stopped. But in the current war-zone climate of bombings and shootings at abortion clinics, with the active campaigns to threaten doctors who perform abortions, I can't believe these lawsuits are aimed at protecting women. I believe they are part of an overall strategy to take away women's right to choose."
In a 1992 anti-abortion manual, Mr. Crutcher urged support for abortion malpractice suits "to protect women, but also to force abortionists out of business by driving up their insurance rates."
But the lawyers who handle abortion-malpractice cases -- Mr. Crutcher is not a lawyer -- say filing lawsuits to harass doctors would be an abuse of the courts. They say they are filing the cases not as anti-abortion advocates , but simply as advocates for injured women.
And, they say, they have a strong incentive to avoid frivolous claims, or harassment suits, since the cases are handled on a contingency basis, with the lawyers getting paid only if they win money for their clients.
"I bring cases only where there was a failure to meet the standard of care, and a woman was injured as a result," said Mr. Jakubczyk, who spoke at the Life Dynamics seminar. "For every woman for whom I file a claim, there are many more I tell that no matter how bad their abortion left them feeling, they don't have a case. People see me as John Jakubczyk, pro-life advocate. But in these cases, I'm just John Jakubczyk, representing a woman."
Ted Amshoff, a Louisville, Ky., a partner in Swendsen, Amshoff, who would not discuss his his personal views on abortion, calling them irrelevant to his legal work, said some of the women he represents had found other lawyers unwilling to handle their cases for fear that they would be seen as opposing abortion.
"I would think it would be a meeting ground for both sides to try to identify doctors who are not providing good care to women," said Mr. Amshoff, who has served as counsel to Kentucky Right to Life. "If this office alone has four death cases, and others where a hysterectomy and colostomy were needed, there's something wrong."
 
No Man's Land
Personal Dilemmas Over Abortion
 In the bitterly divisive landscape of abortion, there is a no man's land, occupied by women who oppose abortion on moral or religious grounds, but nonetheless choose it when they find themselves pregnant. Anti-abortion groups, doctors and abortion-rights groups alike say those women are most likely to sue.
The whole malpractice issue turns abortion politics on its head, sending women who have chosen abortions to lawyers who oppose them.
And malpractice litigation has created some strange alliances. Dr. Warren Hern of Boulder, Colo., has for years been a prime target of the anti-abortion movement, both because he is an outspoken advocate of abortion rights and because he performs late abortions.
But Dr. Hern, who wrote the most widely used textbook on abortion, supports many malpractice claims.
"There's a lot of bad medicine being practiced out there in the name of choice," said Dr. Hern, who estimates that lawyers interested in filing abortion-malpractice suits now account for about 5 percent of the sales of his textbook. "I testified in an Oregon case against a doctor who really did not do well by a patient. As a society, I think we've been in denial about the risks of abortion, both because of ideology, and because of economics. There are a lot of respectable doctors doing a lousy job. It's not a sin to have a complication, but it is a sin if you have not tried to prevent it. And it's a very serious sin if you abandon it."
Even with the best care, Dr. Hern and others said, 5 to 10 percent of first-trimester abortions are incomplete, leaving behind a few grams of tissue, or even the whole fetal sac. More rarely, abortion causes perforation of the uterus, hemorrhage or infection. Without proper follow-up care, such complications can cause serious injury.
Some anti-abortion lawyers are now filing claims based more on emotional than physical injuries. In one Phoenix case, for example, Mr. Jakubczyk charges that Dr. Joel Bettigole performed an abortion on a patient who did not want one.
"From her point of view, she went in, mixed up and confused, and didn't get any real counseling," Mr. Jakubczyk said. "From her point of view, she changed her mind, and withdrew her consent. She began to cry and scream, and they told her to shut up or she'd scare the other girls."
Dr. Bettigole would not discuss the case because it is in litigation.
"All I can say is that it never happened," he said. "I don't remember this particular patient, but I know it never happened because I have never treated any patient like that."
While that case and others like a pending Tennessee case against Planned Parenthood raise the question of valid consent, they are largely based on claims for emotional injuries and post-abortion trauma.
The Tennessee case involves a 15-year-old who became pregnant by the son of a Planned Parenthood official.
"The girl's mother had been shot and killed by her stepfather, and her grandmother got custody of her," said Mr. Smith, the Swendsen, Amshoff lawyer handling the case. "Her dad said come live with him or he would kill himself. She said she couldn't and he did kill himself. Four months later, she got pregnant, and the boy said, 'Have an abortion or I'll kill myself.' She wanted the baby, had already chosen a name. But she got pulled into having an abortion. Within a week she was admitted to the emergency room, crying uncontrollably. She's been in psychiatric care for more than a year now."
Planned Parenthood said it could not discuss the case while it was pending, but disputes the the lawsuit's account. And mental health experts say any girl who lost both parents so brutally might have emotional problems, abortion or no.
Mr. Smith said that, for him, abortion malpractice is both a legal specialty and a ministry.
"A great many women are injured by abortion, but in the past, very few have filed suit," Mr. Smith said. "So as a lawyer I see it as potentially a very lucrative specialty. And as a byproduct, it's a form of ministry. I've been working with this little 15-year old for a year, and it's a way of ministering to the second victims of abortion, the women who've been damaged."
The religious overlap was plain in a prayer request Mr. Smith made to Operation Prayer Storm, a group he describes as "a loose coalition of 25 ministries seeking revival and an end to abortion."
Last April, Operation Prayer Storm sent out to those on its mailing list requests to pray for students who want prayer at school graduations, to stop the Federal Government from mandating "religion free" workplaces and for Swendsen, Amshoff to "get revelation of ALL information they need in each abortion malpractice case."
Swendsen, Amshoff lawyers have appeared on the evangelist Pat Robertson's television show, the 700 Club, in a segment that also featured a Life Dynamics ad.
Just who provides the money for the abortion-malpractice campaign of Life Dynamics remains a mystery. Mr. Crutcher, 47, said his organization depended on donations. He would not identify any donors, but said some had gave more than $100,000. He said the group spent more than $1 million last year to support a staff of seven and a steady barrage of mass mailings.
Mr. Crutcher said Life Dynamics would not take a share of the court awards in any cases it helps with.
If the Phoenix experience is any guide, the new abortion-malpractice suits will take a toll, even on doctors who are not found to have committed malpractice and on their insurers.
"In the mid-80's, when John Jakubczyk was head of Right to Life here, we were one of the abortion clinics targeted to be closed down," said Constance Bennett, the former executive director of the Family Practice Institute. "It was like being under siege. Demonstrators hatcheted the roof, they Super Glue'd the doors shut, they broke in and chained themselves to the tables. We were burglarized. I got death threats, and my dog was drowned in the pool.
"In the middle of all that, John Jakubczyk filed his first abortion-malpractice case, against one of our doctors, for a perforated uterus. The doctor was investigated and exonerated, but the insurance company paid about $5,000 to settle."
By all accounts, that is the only money Mr. Jakubczyk has ever recovered in these cases.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Joseph Jakubczyk, general counsel to Arizona Right to Life, who has filed nine suits against abortion doctors in the past decade; Dr. Brian Finkel, an abortion doctor in Phoenix who is the target of a medical malpractice lawsuit. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ARIZONA RIGHT TO LIFE LIFE DYNAMICS INC (91%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA RIGHT TO LIFE PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; MALPRACTICE; INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION ABORTION (93%); LITIGATION (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ETHICS (75%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR; JAKUBCZYK, JOHN JOSEPH JOHN B JOSEPH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



212 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Blitz of First 100 Days Now Brings Pivotal Second 100

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
Pundits and politicians are still debating the significance of the first hundred days of this 104th Congress, but there is little dispute over the next hundred: they will matter, immensely.
Exhausted House Republicans, who began a three-week recess this weekend, have set the stage for a fundamental re-ordering of the Federal budget and a sweeping reconstruction of 60 years of social welfare policy. How many of their proposals will actually make it through the Senate this summer -- and ultimately past the Presidential veto -- is one of the great unknowns. Critics note that only two House Republican initiatives, both of them among the most modest, have actually been signed into law so far. 
 But after a long march to power, the self-proclaimed revolutionaries in the House have seized extraordinary control of the political agenda and the terms of debate.
"They knew what they wanted to do about a very wide range of things," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York. "They did not find themselves in the majority thinking, 'What now?' "
When the Senate returns from its own recess on April 24, it will confront a stack of legislation already passed by the House that was considered well outside the boundaries of political possibility just six months ago. Those bills include nearly $200 billion worth of tax cuts to business and families over the next five years and welfare legislation that would end the automatic Federal guarantee of cash assistance to every eligible poor family.
At week's end, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, chairman of the House Republican Conference, sounded the theme that has echoed again and again on his party's side of the aisle this year. "Republicans," he said, "are laying out a plan to deliver smaller, less costly, less intrusive government."
Speaker Newt Gingrich, in his Presidential-like address to the nation on Friday night, and President Clinton, in his speech the same day outlining his opening position on vetoes, were both clearly preparing for a test of will and nerve this spring and summer.
But the first front is developing in the Senate, where Democrats assert that the Republican proposals from the House amount to a dangerous rending of the safety net for the poor, a reversion to trickle-down economics and the beginning of a rollback of middle-class benefit programs like Medicare. Democratic leaders say they are convinced that they can mobilize opposition to many of these proposals if they can only gain the time and the public's attention.
As a result, the hopes of liberals, an army of advocacy groups and everyone else trying to blunt the Republican agenda have come to hang on the Senate's institutional capacity to slow things down.
"The biggest lesson a lot of us have learned is it's a wonderful tool to be able to expose legislation to more careful consideration," said Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader. "You hold many of these pieces of legislation up to the light of day and share the concerns you have with the American public, and that exposure is extremely powerful."
Republican leaders counter by saying that all the liberal sighs of "thank God for the Senate" are premature. "Everything the House has done will be brought up in the Senate in one form or another," Senator Trent Lott, the majority whip, said in an interview on Friday. The conservative revolution will not die in his chamber, Mr. Lott maintained, although it may be repackaged and improved.
Even tax cuts, considered a tough sell to the deficit-conscious Republicans of the Senate, have become a very live priority in recent days.
Senator Bob Packwood, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who was once a critic of the idea, said in an interview that his Republican colleagues caucused this week and concluded, "O.K., we'll go for a balanced budget and the tax cuts."
Mr. Lott agreed that "the feeling among Republicans is that we should have, and we will have, a tax-cut proposal," although smaller than the one passed by the House.
In fact, many of the conservative winds blowing through the House are also at work in the Senate, including an exceptionally zealous class of freshmen pushing their elders onward. And the Senate has the added dynamic of the 1996 Presidential campaign. Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, faces a primary process dominated by conservative voters; he also faces a rival in Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who delights in staking out the right on any issue of the day.
Moreover, the procedural advantages of the minority in the Senate can be overstated. While Democrats do have broad power to prolong debate, amend legislation and stall votes, the majority has a few heavy parliamentary weapons of its own. Among those the Democrats fear most would be the bundling of welfare restructuring into a vast budget measure, known as a reconciliation bill, that can be considered under special, fast-track procedures with limited debate and amendments. Democrats considered this tactic with health care legislation in 1993 but decided against it.
Mr. Lott said there had been no decision on that question, although he seemed cheerfully open to the idea. If the Republicans do pursue it, they will have set the stage for an extraordinary showdown in which Mr. Clinton would face a nightmarish decision on whether to veto a far-reaching, and perenially important, bill with vast political implications. "If it's all in one package, those are pretty high stakes," Mr. Daschle said.
The President, of course, is the final variable in the Republican revolution. Mr. Clinton threatened in speeches on Friday and today to veto numerous House-passed measures unless they are substantially changed. But whether he will actually exercise his veto is a subject of intense speculation.
Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader, predicted in an interview this week that Mr. Clinton would be generally reluctant to do so. The Contract With America, the House Republican legislative agenda, "has a very compelling standing with the American people," Mr. Armey said. "And as that standing gets ratified by the Senate and then by conference committees, the President can read that as well as anyone else. He wants to get re-elected as much as members of the House and Senate."
Some liberal Democrats have made that same assessment, although privately and fearfully.
The House, for its part, is hardly finished with its heavy lifting. Many, including some of its Republican leaders, would argue that it has barely begun. When the House returns on May 1, a week after the Senate, it will begin what is expected to be an agonizing struggle to redeem the Republican promise of a balanced budget by the year 2002.
"That will determine more than any item in the contract whether this is a blip or a transforming period in our politics," said Thomas Mann, an expert on Congress at the Brookings Institution.
As Mr. Gingrich acknowledged in his speech on Friday night, it is impossible to both reach a balanced Federal budget in seven years and provide the big House-passed tax cuts without putting much of the budget on the cutting table. So far, the Republicans have spoken largely in generalities, like Mr. Gingrich's suggestion that the majority's Medicare changes would simply expand health care options for the elderly. And, reflecting advice from their pollsters, Republicans have also emphasized eliminating bureaucracies -- like the Commerce Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development -- and bureaucrats.
But sooner or later, the party will have to detail politically difficult cuts. Medicare is considered the real test for the Republicans: unlike the reductions already passed by the House in welfare spending, money that comes out of Medicare will affect, directly or indirectly, a vast and vulnerable middle-class constituency. And as the Clintons discovered last year, health policy in and of itself, even without the added political danger of dealing specifically with the elderly, is a minefield.
For now, perhaps nothing speaks more to the impact of the past hundred days than the passionately, diametrically opposed assessments of them. Republicans headed home on Friday in a state of weary euphoria, convinced that they had begun a great and historic task that would culiminate later this year. And out in the states, Republican Governors like Tommmy G. Thompson of Wisconsin echoed their cheers.
"When you look back five years from now, you're going to say they came, they saw, they conquered," Governor Thompson said in an interview. "They changed Federal Government from being an omnipotent power to a Federalist power, the way the Framers envisioned it, and they actually did something about the deficit."
Mr. Moynihan looked at the same legislative output and saw disaster. If the welfare bill passed by the House becomes law, "you have to reach for a vocabulary of calamity," he said, adding, "It would be the harshest, most regressive legislation in our history."
The gulf between those assessments signals the magnitude of the struggle to come.


GRAPHIC: Comparison of cuts in the current budget approved by the House and Senate, in millions of dollars.

 	 	 	CATEGORY	HOUSE	SENATE	Agriculture	$212.0	$164.1	Commerce, Justice, State	270.8	310.2	Energy-Water	239.5	344.5	 Defense environmental restoration	28.0	13.0	Foreign Operations	191.6	150.0	Interior	328.8	241.0	 Nat'l Endowment for the Arts	5.0	5.0	 Nat'l Endowment for the Humanities	5.0	5.0	Labor-HHS	5,896.4	2,140.9	 Low Income Home Energy	 	 	 Assistance (fiscal '96)	1,319.2 0	 	 Summer youth jobs (fiscal '95)	867.1 0	 	 Summer youth jobs (fiscal '96)	871.5	871.5	 Corporation for Public	 	 	 Broadcasting (fiscal '95)	47.0	26.3	 Corporation for Public	 	 	 Broadcasting (fiscal '96)	94.0	29.3	Legislative	20.9	25.6	Transportation	728.5	2,584.4	 Grants-in-aid for airports 0	2,000.0	 	 Federal highway aid/emergency relief	351.0	50.0	Treasury, Postal Service	172.2	1,891.9	VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies	9,329.0	8,344.5	 FEMA disaster relief (fiscal '95) 5,360.9 1,900.0	 	 	 FEMA disaster relief (fiscal '96) 0 4,800.0	 	 	 Community development grants	349.2 0	 	 National service initiative	416.1	105.0	TOTAL	$17,389.7	$16,197.2	
 
Source: Congressional Budget Office for House numbers; Office of Management and Budget for Senate numbers. (pg. 18)
 
"CHECKLIST: The Contract With America: How Much Was Enacted" shows which items in the Contract have been passed or rejected in the House and Senate, and signed by the President. Also shown is what lies ahead with respect to the key elements of the Contract. (pg. 18)
Tables: "ADDING IT UP: Cuts in Federal Programs"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); VETO (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



213 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Anniston Journal;
From Trust in the Army To a Sense of Betrayal

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: ANNISTON, Ala., April 7

 BODY:
The partnership between this city and the nation's military was based on need, and trust. The Army needed a dirty job done. People here needed work -- even if it meant letting the Army hide a weapon so deadly, so morally repugnant, that it was never used.
For almost 40 years, this prototypical Army town has given safe haven to a stockpile of nerve gas so potent that just a speck on the skin or in the air will kill. In return, the military propped up the local economy with two military installations, a godsend for people who still remembered the tug of the cotton sack. 
 They had slang for it: "Workin' for the guv'ment." It was a marriage, they believed, of generations.
Now Anniston and the surrounding counties face the possibility not only of losing their main military base, but also of being left with the Army's chemical garbage, or having the weapons incinerated here.
In Calhoun County, of which Anniston is the county seat, residents have been largely supportive of building the incinerator to destroy the rusting, leaking rockets and the mines now stored in bunkers at the nearby Anniston Army Depot, the smaller of the two installations.
Many residents believed it was prudent to support the incineration, even if they had safety concerns. They did not want to seem unpatriotic and risk losing their benefactor.
Besides, the incinerator, they believed, would serve as an insurance policy. The main base, Fort McClellan, a center for research and development of chemical and biological weapons, would be needed in the event of a chemical disaster at the depot where the weapons are stored or at the incinerator, some argued. Thus, they reasoned, if Anniston allowed it to be built it would guarantee that the fort would remain.
For a while that logic seemed sound. Though targeted for closure in 1991 and 1993, Fort McClellan was twice spared the ax.
But when the Government released a short list last month of bases it wants to close, Fort McClellan was on it. Those who trusted in the military are now afraid they may be left with something worse than an abandoned military base.
"We are losing confidence that the Army looks out for our interests," said Representative Glen Browder, a Democrat who represents Alabama's Third Congressional District, including Calhoun County.
Historically, the people have staged no marches, no protests. Now they feel betrayed, said Donna Harmon, who runs an interior design business in this city of about 30,000 people. "I haven't talked to anyone in town who doesn't feel that way," she said.
Ms. Harmon has been among the minority who opposed the incinerator from the start, a group sometimes branded as unpatriotic. But developments of the last few weeks, she said, "have opened the eyes of a lot of people."
Rudy Noll, a retired lieutenant colonel living in Calhoun County, is ardently pro-military and has long backed the incinerator. But, he said, "If the fort were closed, the public would not be so willing."
Bulldozers have cleared the land, and construction awaits the signing of a state environmental permit. No matter what happens next, things in this patriotic corner of Alabama may never be the same.
"The citizens and Army had a partnership," said Doris Gertler, a retired internist who lives outside Anniston. "And trust."
The old-timers who worked in the bunkers remember how they used to test for leaks with caged rabbits.
The poison sarin, a few drops of which proved so deadly last month in the Japanese subway tunnels, is harbored here by the ton. All told, there is as much as five million pounds of sarin and other poison stored here.
More than 100,000 people live within 30 miles of the depot.
"We grew up with it," Mr. Browder said. "We have it. We don't have a choice." For now, the only choice the residents have is whether to live next door to a toxic storage site or a toxic incinerator.
Anniston is just one site where the military is trying to destroy its chemical weapons stockpile, as required by treaties with the former Soviet Union. The others are in Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Oregon and Utah. But this is by far the most heavily populated of the sites.
In the past, at least, there was a sweetener for Anniston: the work. Generations have raised families with paychecks from the military. In recent years, almost 1 in 5 civilians in Calhoun County made their living from the military. Now the proposed closing of Fort McClellan threatens a combined total of 10,000 military and civilian jobs and an annual economic impact of $600 million, said Mr. Noll, executive director of the county's Economic Adjustment Authority.
It is the authority's job to help the area diversify, but if the fort closes, realistically, there is little else.
Some residents wonder if it might be time to break their dependence on the military. Brooks Clark, a financial adviser, said the county could offer buildings at Fort McClellan to industry for just dollars a year and get thousands of jobs in return.
The great fear is that the Army will burn the weapons here, which would take years, then use the incinerator to burn other toxic waste. The Army has promised it would not. But in the eyes of many, the Army's word is no longer to be trusted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ANNISTON ARMY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANNISTON ARMY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOLOGICAL WARFARE; POISON GASES; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ANNISTON ARMY DEPOT (ALA); FORT MCCLELLAN (ALA); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMIES ARMIES (92%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (89%); TRENDS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CLOSINGS (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (50%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



214 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: McNamara Recalls, and Regrets, Vietnam

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
Robert S. McNamara, once a champion of the escalation of the Vietnam War, says in a memoir to be published in the coming week that he has now concluded that the United States "could and should have withdrawn from South Vietnam" in late 1963 after the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem or a year or so later.
In November 1963, 78 Americans had died in the war in Vietnam. In late 1964, the total stood at 225. By the war's end in 1975, it had passed 58,000. 
 Mr. McNamara served as Secretary of Defense from 1961 to 1968 and pushed so hard for deeper American military involvement in 1964 and 1965 that the conflict in Southeast Asia became known as "McNamara's War." Later, he broke with President Lyndon B. Johnson and urged that a diplomatic solution be sought. Convinced that the war was unwinnable, he left the Pentagon in 1968 to head the World Bank.
Identified in the public mind as a cold, calculating "numbers cruncher," Mr. McNamara seems deeply stirred by his literary journey back to the 1960's. He broke down in tears while talking to Diane Sawyer of ABC News for a program that is to be broadcast next week. That profoundly embarrassed him, he said in an interview today, "but the sense of grief and failure is strong."
The interviews and memoir represent Mr. McNamara's first substantive public comment on the war after almost three decades in which he declined to discuss it. In the book, "In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam," (Times Books, $27.50), he is unsparing in blaming himself and his Government colleagues, including President Johnson, for a series of blunders that led to tragedy.
"I want to put Vietnam in context," he writes, because he believes that Vietnam helped make the American people cynical about their Government and because "it is cynicism that makes Americans reluctant to support their leaders in the actions necessary to confront and solve our problems at home and abroad."
Still highly active at 78, climbing mountains and striding through downtown Washington in a pair of battered running shoes, Mr. McNamara offers a limited defense of American policies, arguing that the errors he made were errors "not of values and intentions but of judgment and capabilities." But he adds: "We were wrong, terribly wrong. We owe it to future generations to explain why."
He lists "11 major causes for our disaster in Vietnam," including misjudging the capacity of North Vietnam, underrating nationalism as a force in the world, failing to recognize the limitations of high-tech equipment, failing to level with Congress and the American public and, crucially, poor organization. Like Winston Churchill in World War II, he says, Johnson needed a war cabinet.
Asked in the interview today whether the same mistakes could be repeated now, he responded, "Absolutely, not only can be but are being repeated." American difficulties in Bosnia and Somalia, he said, involved some similar errors.
In his book, Mr. McNamara says the ultimate cause of failure in Asia lay with the South Vietnamese. Echoing what both Presidents John F. Kennedy and Johnson said, Mr. McNamara states that it was the Asians' war, ultimately, to win or lose.
After President Diem's death, a series of coups convinced American officials that the South Vietnamese were incapable of putting together a stable government.
By the mid-1960's, Mr. McNamara says, it was clear that "political stability did not exist and was unlikely ever to be achieved" and "the South Vietnamese, even with our training assistance and logistical support, were incapable of defending themselves."
Drawing on his own papers and other Government documents, some of them just declassified, Mr. McNamara insists that American bombing never seriously threatened Hanoi's capacity to wage war and that American ground operations never established any real, lasting security in the South Vietnamese countryside.
Nor did the pacification program win many "hearts and minds," he writes.
But he and others, Mr. McNamara says, failed again and again to question flawed assumptions and to face basic geopolitical questions as they escalated the war again and again.
Looking back, he writes: "I deeply regret that I did not force a probing debate about whether it would ever be possible to forge a winning military effort on a foundation of political quicksand. It became clear then, and I believe it is clear today, that military force -- especially when wielded by an outside power -- cannot bring order in a country that cannot govern itself."
He identifies repeated occasions on which portents of trouble or opportunities for disengagement were ignored: a dissent on the use of airpower from Gen. H. K. Johnson, the Army Chief of Staff, in September 1964; a cable from Ambassador Maxwell Taylor in December 1964; a warning against escalation from President Johnson's old senatorial mentor, Richard B. Russell of Georgia, in June 1965.
When diplomatic initiatives were undertaken, Mr. McNamara says, they were often spoiled by what he terms a "miserable failure to integrate and coordinate our military and diplomatic actions." Several times, he says, just when Hanoi had been told to watch for signs of good faith, it was subjected to stepped-up bombing.
Finally, Mr. McNamara says, he despaired of changing things. In a memo he sent President Johnson on May 19, 1967, as his doubts crystallized, he warned:
"There may be limits beyond which many Americans and much of the world will not permit the United States to go. The picture of the world's greatest superpower killing or seriously injuring 1,000 noncombatants a week, while trying to pound a tiny backward nation into submission on an issue whose merits are hotly disputed, is not a pretty one. It could conceivably produce a costly distortion in the American national consciousness and in the world image of the United States."
Mr. McNamara says he belatedly concluded that the domino theory enunciated by President Dwight D. Eisenhower and subscribed to by his three successors was wrong: The loss of South Vietnam never threatened to undermine the entire American position in Asia or to undercut United States credibility elsewhere.
"On the contrary," he writes, "it is possible we would have improved our credibility by withdrawing from Vietnam and saving our strength for more defensible stands elsewhere."
Others in Government reached similar conclusions but did not share them widely. Mr. McNamara discloses that Richard Helms, at that time the Director of Central Intelligence, sent President Johnson an eyes-only memo in September 1967 that the President showed to no one and that Mr. McNamara only recently read. Based on a detailed agency study, it said that, contrary to what was then established American doctrine, the effects of "an unfavorable outcome in Vietnam" -- a United States defeat or withdrawal -- "would not be permanently damaging to this country's capacity to play its part as a world power working for order and security in many areas."
Mr. McNamara writes that he believes President Kennedy would have eventually decided to withdraw from Vietnam, had he lived, but he offers no details to support the assertion.
The book contains other revelations, among them President Johnson's tentative offer of the 1964 Democratic vice presidential nomination to Mr. McNamara.
But it sheds little light on the circumstances of Mr. McNamara's departure from the Pentagon. As the Defense Secretary's relations with the President soured, he indicates, George Woods, then the World Bank president, approached him about the job, and he indicated interest. Mr. Johnson approved the idea, and the deal was done. But Mr. McNamara says it is not clear whether the President was involved from the start.
"I do not know to this day whether I quit or was fired," he writes. "Maybe it was both."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We were wrong, terribly wrong," writes former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, shown here in his office in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (68%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR VIETNAM WAR (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ASSASSINATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; MCNAMARA, ROBERT S DIANE SAWYER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



215 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: In Macedonia, New Fears of a Wider Balkan War

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: SKOPJE, Macedonia

 BODY:
With the United Nations scaling back its forces in Croatia and a resurgence of fighting in Bosnia, fears that the Balkan conflict will move south into Macedonia have been renewed.
Internal ethnic conflicts and a worsening economy in Macedonia add to the anxieties about political stability in this new nation. 
 With the likelihood that a war here would draw in neighboring countries, the United States has contingency plans to send as many as 1,500 more American soldiers to join the 550 already here as part of a United Nations force sent two years ago.
Moreover, the United States and other Western countries, worried about the economic discontent, are looking the other way as Macedonia conducts trade with Serbia in open violation of United Nations sanctions. It is considered one of the biggest violators of the sanctions.
At the same time, out of deference to Greece, the Clinton Administration has not established full diplomatic relations with Macedonia, a step that would contribute significantly to political stability, diplomats and Macedonian leaders say. Greece has imposed a blockade on Macedonia, its northern neighbor, in a dispute that centers on who has the right to use the name.
But the greatest threat to peace, diplomats and analysts say, is President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, the most powerful leader in what remains of the former Yugoslavia, who has also refused to recognize the independence of Macedonia and considers it to be southern Serbia.
A war would almost certainly be set off, analysts say, if Mr. Milosevic increased the repression of ethnic Albanians in the Serbian province of Kosovo, which borders on Macedonia. That would draw in the country of Albania, the large Albanian population here and neighboring countries that have fought over Macedonia before.
Earlier in this century, Turkey, Bulgaria, Serbia and Greece all battled for dominion over Macedonia, which was carved up after the Second Balkan War in 1913. Eventually the greatest part became a republic in Tito's Yugoslavia. It declared its independence in November 1991.
Greece objects to the use of the name Macedonia and to Skopje's use of a bursting sun in the country's flag. Both of these, the Greeks contend, have been part of their heritage from the time of Alexander the Great, a Macedonian.
"If it were not so damaging to us, it would be funny," Hari Kostov, Macedonia's Deputy Finance Minister, said about the Greek position and its blockade.
A European diplomat who insisted on anonymity said of the Greek policy, "It is totally irrational."
Under the blockade, Macedonia, a landlocked country of 2.2 million people the size of Vermont, has lost access to the Greek port of Salonika on the Aegean.
Now raw materials and exports must make a tortuous and far more expensive journey via Bulgaria or Albania. It costs $50 more a ton to bring in oil through Bulgaria, Mr. Kostov said. To avoid passing on these increased costs to consumers, the Government has reduced customs duties on oil, which is costing it $100 million in revenues a year, Mr. Kostov said.
He also cited a refrigerator manufacturing company that gets parts from Italy and sells finished refrigerators in Western Europe. It is now operating at a loss because of increased transportation costs.
"There has been a real failure of leadership, not only by the United States, but by the European Union" to get the embargo lifted, said a senior United Nations official in the region.
The international sanctions against the former Yugoslavia compound Macedonia's economic problems. Before Yugoslavia was dismembered, Serbia was the major market for Macedonia's finished goods and agricultural products.
The sanctions have cost Macedonia $3 billion over three years, Mr. Kostov said. The country's total budget this year is $1.2 billion.
To mitigate the effects of the Greek embargo, the United Nations and Western governments are ignoring the wide-scale sanctions violations by Macedonia. "We are looking the other way," a Western diplomat said.
Several hundred trucks a week cross into Serbia, a United Nations military officer said as he surveyed the line of trucks at the border crossing at Denera Jankovic, 10 miles from Skopje.
Still, the economy continues to decline, and social unrest looms. Under conditions laid down by the International Monetary Fund, Macedonia must make 25 state enterprises profitable by the end of the year or close them. Only a few are likely to make it, Mr. Kostov said, which could leave 25,000 people unemployed.
In recent weeks, workers have held demonstrations in two cities to protest the economic conditions, and more protests are planned.
"It will be a fantastic opportunity for demagogues," said Vladimir Milcin, a theater director and the executive director for Macedonia of the Soros Foundation, which supports democratic institutions in former Communist countries. Demagogues here range from strident Macedonian nationalists to Albanian separatists to advocates of unity with Serbia.
"It mainly depends on America," Mr. Milcin said when asked how political turmoil could be averted, expressing a view widely held here.
European diplomats and Macedonian leaders say that what is needed is not so much for the United States to send more troops as for it to grant full diplomatic relations.
"It would be a clear message to other countries of the region that Macedonia is an internationally accepted state and that the United States stands behind its territorial integrity," the Prime Minister, Branko Crvenkovski, said in an interview.
But American officials say Washington will not send an ambassador until there has been a substantial resolution of the dispute between Macedonia and Greece.
Mr. Crvenkovski said Macedonia is willing to compromise on the flag, but his Government is adamant on continuing to use the Republic of Macedonia as its name. Greece is just as insistent that the name be changed, diplomats from several countries said.
If peace is to be preserved, the Macedonian Government must also treat its Albanian population more fairly. Long discriminated against here, Albanians constitute the country's largest ethnic minority -- 23 percent of the population according a recent census, which is generally considered accurate though Albanians claim they are 40 percent of the population.
The Government has made some efforts on behalf of Albanians. State television has programs in the Albanian language. Primary and secondary schools teach in Albanian, and at the national university in Skopje, where the student body is less than 3 percent Albanian, places are now reserved for Albanians.
The Government drew a line, though, when ethnic Albanians tried to establish their own university earlier this year in the town of Tetovo. The Government argues that Macedonia cannot support a university for every minority group, and it is concerned that it would be a political training ground for separatists.
The police descended on Tetovo to close the university. In an ensuing clash with protesters, one ethnic Albanian man was killed.
Most of the discriminatory policies against the Albanians are a carry-over from the Communist era, but the Government has been slow to change them.
"There is a lot of room to do more" for the Albanians, Prime Minister Crvenkovski said.
On the broader question of whether Macedonia was the next flash point, he said "the risk is not to be underestimated." He compared watching Macedonia to a game of Russian roulette -- "maybe it will go off, maybe it won't."

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of Macedonia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (94%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BULGARIA (89%); KOSOVO (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); GREECE; ALBANIA; SERBIA; SERBIA (96%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (94%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BULGARIA (89%); KOSOVO (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MACEDONIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TRENDS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



216 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Signs That the South Accepts 'Lost Cause' at Last

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: APPOMATTOX, Va., April 8

 BODY:
Four generations of white Southern youngsters were brought up to treat the Civil War as a continuing conflict, an attitude nursed by family tales of underdog valor in "the War of Northern Aggression."
On playgrounds, pupils picking teams split into Yanks and Rebels. In classrooms, Robert E. Lee, the Confederate commander, received at least equal billing with George Washington. Many Confederate shrines were built with the generals facing north, as if ready to return to battle. 
 But this spring, 130 years after the fact, even Dixie's diehards began accepting their defeat. Virginia's newest tourist attraction is Lee's Retreat, a 105-mile automobile trail that opened on April 1, competing for attention with the monument in Richmond depicting the defiant hero, astride his horse Traveller. And last weekend, 150 rifle-toting men dressed as Union soldiers marched on Richmond, in the first re-creation of the fall of the Confederate capital.
"Now I know how Parisians felt when the Nazis went through the Arc de Triomphe," said Wayne Lineberry, 48, of Midlothian, Va., an insurance manager who is a member of the Sons of Confederate Veterans.
Nearby, black spectators wept, and a few hummed "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." White women in hoop skirts cried, too. But they seemed to be saying goodbye.
Though the pool of possible members increases with each generation, enrollment has declined at the United Daughters of the Confederacy, a group for descendants of Confederate soldiers. Membership, which was 35,000 in 1950, is 24,500 today.
"Portraits of Lee are still treasured, but they may not be on the mantel anymore," said the group's president general, Margaret S. Price.
Historians said the mythology surrounding what wistful Southerners call "the Lost Cause" had served a psychological need that no longer exists. Southerners took a century to recover from the toll in blood, property and pride. Until World War II, historians said, the South functioned as an economic colony, supplying raw materials for the industrialization of the more prosperous North.
Nostalgia seemed to be a leading Southern export. A cartoon that was featured everywhere from cafe walls to cigarette lighters showed a grizzled Rebel soldier clutching a sword and snarling, "Forget? Hell!" Others found escape by romanticizing what many in these parts call "the Late Unpleasantness." Laying flowers on Confederate graves remained a Sunday ritual for many women well into the 1950's.
"Losers have long memories," said Dr. James I. Robertson, 64, a history professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University at Blacksburg. "But in my own lifetime, I've seen the bitterness dissipate."
Dr. Ronald L. Heinemann, a history professor at Hampden-Sydney College in Farmville, Va., a town that is a stop on Lee's Retreat, added, "Recent scholarship of Lee, while reaffirming his brilliance as a general and as a gentleman, has challenged the notion of him as a god incarnate."
The re-enactment of the fall of Richmond seemed to symbolize the cooling of Confederate passion. The ceremony drew 850 people, while one mile away, 1,500 jammed Broad Street for a walk to benefit the National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
On the lawn of the Capitol, belles wore black as a fife-and-drum corps led the Northern charge, startling couples eating brunch on downtown patios.
Cookie Atkinson, 44, who lives in Varina, which was named for the wife of the Confederate president, Jefferson Davis, used a mildew-marred Confederate battle flag for a shawl as she watched. "I thought there would be more of a to-do -- they are taking the city," she said. "Maybe we're getting so far past it."
Kenneth Brown, 36, a science teacher who organized the mock seizure of the capital, said the shift in focus was a landmark. "We need to think about telling the whole story -- not just one part of the story," he said. "For many African-Americans, their story has not been told fully."
Another neglected chapter unfolds along Lee's Retreat, a 20-stop driving tour promoted by the National Park Service and economic development agencies. Reflectorized signs featuring red, white and blue bugles point the way across the lush, increasingly hilly terrain from Petersburg to Appomattox Court House, where the surrender took place.
The designers of the tour said they had expected some criticism but had received none. "This is a nonpartisan story," said Chris M. Calkins, the historian at Petersburg National Battlefield. "If we called it Grant's Advance, no one would know what we were talking about."
Of course, some remain holdouts from the changing South. So Robin Edward Reed, the executive director of the Museum of the Confederacy, in Richmond, recommends a policy of "don't ask, don't tell."
"There's a rule of thumb that a good guest doesn't bring up politics or religion," Mr. Reed said. "You can add the Confederacy to that short list."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Battle of Little Sailor's Creek was re-enacted in Rice, Va., this weekend. Lee lost one-fifth of his men in the battle on April 6, 1865. (Timothy Wright for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the route of "Lee's Retreat" auto trail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

COMPANY: SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS (55%); SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS (55%); UNITED DAUGHTERS OF THE CONFEDERACY (54%); UNITED DAUGHTERS OF THE CONFEDERACY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS (55%); SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS (55%); UNITED DAUGHTERS OF THE CONFEDERACY (54%); UNITED DAUGHTERS OF THE CONFEDERACY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (77%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (US) (1861-65) CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



217 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: Driving a Taxi, Difficult in Best of Times, Gets Tougher

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
At the lunch counters that line Lexington Avenue's curry corridor, Pakistani and Indian cabbies gather every day to eat, work the kinks out of their legs and backs and talk shop. These days, much of the talk is about money, and it is not pleasant.
"I'm living day to day like an animal in the jungle," Choudry Hussain, 37, said one recent afternoon as he sat down to a steaming plate of lamb, lentils and basmati rice at Chatkhara restaurant, between 27th and 28th Streets. "It's work, food and sleep; nothing more. The way it's going, I might be better off back home in Pakistan." 
 Mr. Hussain is feeling the effects of a profound economic shift that has made driving a yellow cab in New York a far tougher way to make a living than it was only a few years ago. A flood of immigrants has produced a glut of Pakistanis, Indians, Haitians, Russians, West Africans and others willing to drive for little pay. The demographic changes have come as business for yellow cabs has grown stagnant in the region's foundering economy.
"There are so many drivers available that it's an owner's market," said Edward G. Rogoff, a professor of management at Baruch College who studies the taxi industry. "Drivers are competing for these low-prestige, low-pay jobs, which pushes their incomes down further."
The declining economics of cab driving may hurt service, as passengers are more likely to find themselves riding with inexperienced or tired drivers. The drivers themselves say that in hard times, they are more apt to refuse fares to upper Manhattan or to other boroughs -- a practice prohibited by law -- because they know they will be unlikely to find fares for the return trip.
The change in the taxi industry is one of supply and demand. Most of the people at the wheels of yellow cabs are lease drivers, meaning they rent their cabs for the day or the week from the people who own them or from middlemen called lease managers. As the supply of drivers bidding for the same jobs increases -- there is enough work for 15,000 full-time lease drivers, but 40,000 people have hack licenses -- the amount the owners and managers can demand goes up too.
The average rate a cabbie paid to take a taxi out for a 12-hour shift climbed 11 percent, to about $85, between 1990 and 1993, based on the most recent figures available from the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission. But meter revenue remained steady during the same period. As a result, the average income of drivers was about $19,000 in 1993, the same as in 1986 and less than in the peak years that immediately followed, taxi commission studies show.
"In '87, '88, you could make $100 a day, maybe more," said Sam Khan, a 37-year-old driver from Pakistan. But now, he said with a grimace, "maybe $60, $65."
"This is one of the toughest jobs in the world," he said. "First N.Y.P.D., then us."
Six of every seven new hack licenses go to foreign-born drivers like Mr. Khan, and more than 40 percent to people from the Indian subcontinent. To immigrant drivers, the reason is no mystery. "Americans would not do this work," said Denis Assongba, 30, a cabbie who is a native of Benin, in West Africa.
City officials agree that many lease drivers are being squeezed. A year ago, the city taxi commission rejected the industry's call for what would have been the first fare hike since January 1990, saying that the drivers did not share fairly in the profits. "There's plenty of profit being made in this industry," said Fidel F. Del Valle, the chief of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, "just not by the drivers. The medallion owners and the lease managers are not hurting."
In 1993, 32 to 45 percent of the income of a fleet or lease manager was profit, or $16,000 to $21,300 per car, up from $5,500 to $9,800 in 1986, according to the taxi commission.
But those figures are hotly contested by the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, an association of 18 of the largest and oldest taxi fleets, which claims that its members have a profit margin of $3,500 to $4,500 per car. "It may have been as high as $6,000 to $7,000 a car a few years ago, but it was never anywhere near what the T.L.C. is saying," said Ronald Stoppelmann, president of the group and owner of Irene Leasing, a 130-cab fleet based in Queens. "I don't know where they get their figures."
A few cabbies said that it was possible for a well-informed driver to beat the averages, though few claimed to be able to make as much as $30,000 a year.
"Smart guys make money," said William Mersey, a 44-year-old native of Lyndhurst, L.I., who has written about his experiences as a cabbie for several publications. "Guys who don't know what they're doing -- and a lot of the ones who are new to the country don't -- have a rougher time. You've got to know where the fares are, where the traffic jams are. You've got to know where the quick left turns are and where the red lights will hold you up."
Lawrence Goldberg, secretary-treasurer of the Taxi Drivers and Allied Workers Union, said: "A cabbie ought to be a newspaper reader. He has to know when Broadway shows let out, when ships come in, when there are trade shows at the Javits Center, when the games get out at the Garden and when the bars close in SoHo."
Mr. Goldberg's union, which represents 4,500 lease drivers, was once a powerful force in the industry but now has little influence. Professor Rogoff at Baruch said the high turnover among drivers makes it virtually impossible for them to organize and make demands from owners.
To understand the economics of the yellow cab business, one must first understand that it is the taxi medallion, a metal shield affixed to a cab's hood, that is the industry's essential commodity. The medallion represents the right, conferred by the city, to operate a taxi, and gives yellow cabs, unlike livery cabs, the right to pick up passengers who hail them on the streets.
The city has not issued new medallions since 1937, keeping the number frozen at 11,787, though Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has proposed the sale of 400 more. Driven by scarcity and healthy profits, the average price of a medallion rose to $144,000 in 1989, from $60,000 in 1980. The market slumped slightly during the 1990-91 recession, then surged again, and the average medallion price now stands at almost $200,000. Medallions are almost always bought with bank loans; about $1 billion is owed on medallions that have not been paid off, according to the taxi commission.
Lease drivers rent the medallions, and usually the taxis, for a day or a week from their owners or a middleman. Depending on the owner and the night of the week, a lease driver pays $72 to $100 to take a car out for a 12-hour shift, or about $450 to $650 for a weekly lease. The driver must also pay for gas, at $15 to $20 a night. Drivers keep whatever fares and tips they collect, but they often start a day's work $100 or more behind.
"They get a check from me every Monday, whether I make anything or not," said Om Parkash, 47, from India. Like most drivers, he works six days a week, 10 to 12 hours a day, but he estimates that he must earn $45,000 a year before making a penny for himself.
But Mr. Stoppelmann of the taxi industry association disputes the contention of drivers and taxi commission officials that the drivers shoulder the industry's financial risks, saying that on a given day, 8 percent of a fleet's cabs stay in the garage for repairs or because of absent drivers.
"If a driver doesn't come to work, the car doesn't go out and I don't get paid," he said. "The driver knows if he works, he's going to make decent money, and nobody on this green earth knows what they really make in tips. You're not going to find any worker who doesn't complain that he isn't making enough money."
He also noted that in the byzantine taxi business, not all owners are equal.
By law, almost half the medallions can be owned only by the drivers themselves, who must be the primary users of their cabs. An owner-driver is permitted to lease the car and medallion to other drivers for up to 12 hours a day, though many do not.
Large fleets, which tend to be family-owned, have had their medallions for decades and tend to take the long view. They bought medallions when they were relatively cheap, and do not have to sink a large part of their profits into paying off loans. They own their taxis and buy them new, whereas many smaller fleets and garage managers buy used ones. Big fleets run garages and employ mechanics, and generally keep their cars in better shape than those used by smaller operators, an important consideration in a business that puts 7,000 to 9,000 miles a month on a cab driven two shifts a day.
During the 80's, many medallions were bought by speculators who saw the shields not as an entry to the taxi business but as investments to be sold at a profit. Most people or companies that own no more than a few medallions turn them over to lease managers, who hire drivers, collect income, do the needed paperwork and send the owners $1,100 to $1,400 a month per medallion.
Lease managers, who may also be medallion owners, hire more lease drivers than any other group. But because there is such a wide array of arrangements among medallion owners, lease managers and drivers, it is hard to make profit comparisons between lease managers and fleets.
Some lease managers operate roughly like fleets, providing cars (usually used), garages, insurance and mechanics, but others are simply middlemen who require the drivers to buy and maintain their own cars and insurance. It is these lease managers who reap the highest profit, people in the industry say.
Several lease managers declined to be interviewed, but a few, speaking on condition of anonymity, conceded that they make profits far greater than those of the fleets.
One, Willie Bly, agreed that lease drivers fare poorly under the current system. But he contended that no one should expect medallion owners and lease managers to accept willingly anything less than the maximum profit. Market forces being what they are, he said, the price to lease a medallion will remain high as long as enough cabbies are willing to pay it.
In the past, generations of drivers saved to buy their own medallions. But that goal has slipped far beyond the reach of most cabbies.
"How am I going to buy a medallion?" Mr. Saini asked. "Yesterday, after lease, I made $52. I spend $5 on lunch and $20 on gas. That's $27. Not enough to live, you know, definitely not enough to buy a medallion."

GRAPHIC: Photos:
 
Name: Denis Assongba (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
Age: 30
From: Benin
Previous occupation: Worked for Benin consulate, plays and teaches drums.
How long driving a cab: 3 years.
Why started: Hoped to make more money than at the consulate.
Number of times held up: 3
Outlook on the business: Thinks the money is terrible, wants to become a chef and open a restaurant.
"It's the hardest job in New York."
 
Name: Sam Khan (Edward Keating/The New York Times)
Age: 37
From: Pakistan
Previous occupation: Salesman.
How long driving a cab: 10 years.
Why started: Mr. Hussain recommended it. Says, laughing, "I never forgive him for this."
Number of times held up: 2
Outlook on the business: Has seen his income decline and his hours grow longer, and thinks about returning to Pakistan.
"Cab drivers, they don't have a life. It's an inhuman thing."
 
Name: Choudry Hussain (Edward Keating/The New York Times)
Age: 37
From: Pakistan
Previous occupation: Ran a construction company.
How long driving a cab: 11 years on and off, the last 3 steadily.
Why started: "There was no other path available for immigrants that was easy to get."
Number of times held up: 1
Outlook on the business: Bitter. Thinks about returning to Pakistan.
"This business is painful. What you earned eight years ago and what you earn today is the same. After paying the bills, I don't have a penny to save."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TAXI&LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAXI&LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD SAM KHAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



218 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Finds It Difficult to Deflect Attacks on the School Lunch Proposals

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
Of all the accusations flung back and forth in the new Congress, none infuriates Republicans more than the assertion that they are cutting the school lunch program.
Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia said recently that the fight over that program was "one of the most horrendously disgusting examples of demagogy I have ever seen." 
 "What you had," he said, "was a group of reactionary politicians and reactionary reporters colluding to deliberately misinform the people of the United States."
Democrats say the Republicans are cutting the school lunch program and want to kill it, and they cite these efforts as a symbol of what is wrong with the Republican agenda. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, has said, "The Republicans know that children are not old enough to vote, so they have targeted the school lunch program."
In truth, said Mr. Gingrich, the welfare bill passed by the House "increased by 4.5 percent a year for five years the amount of money we allocate" for school lunches. The Democrats, he said, are spreading "factually false stories" to scare children into thinking they will go hungry.
But the Republicans have found it hard to explain exactly what they are doing with the child nutrition programs, and the complexity of their proposal has allowed the debate to catch fire. In fact, there is no simple, straightforward way to compare the money that would be spent under their proposal with the amounts that would be spent under current law for the same types of food assistance.
The school lunch program, established in 1946, now feeds 25.3 million children a day, subsidizing more than four billion meals a year.
The Republicans would give each state a lump sum of money to help schools feed children. This block grant would replace the school lunch program, and the separate school breakfast program, and would absorb part of the money that now goes to schools from three other sources: the summer food-service program, the child-care food program for youngsters in day care and the milk program for schools that do not offer lunch or breakfast.
The amount of money earmarked for school lunch subsidies this year is clear: $5.2 billion, including cash and commodities. And the Congressional Budget Office has estimated the amounts that will be spent over the next five years if current law remains in place.
But it is not so easy to determine precisely how much would be spent on school lunches under the Republican proposal because there would no longer be a separate account for such meals. The lunch money would be lumped together with money for school breakfasts, day-care meals and the other programs merged in the block grant. A state would have to use at least 80 percent of its grant to provide free or low-cost meals to "economically disadvantaged children."
Each side in this debate has some evidence to support its argument. The amount of money in the block grant for 1996 is, as the Republicans say, more than the 1995 appropriations for the five programs that would be consolidated in the block grant, and the amount would increase in each of the next five years.
But the block grant provides less each year than would be spent in that year for those five programs under current law, and it would not keep pace with expected increases in food costs and school enrollment. School lunch would no longer be an entitlement, available at little or no cost to any child with family income below a certain level. States could set their own eligibility criteria, and there is no guarantee that children entitled to free lunches today would continue to receive them.
Over five years, the block grant would provide states with $36.3 billion. That is at least $2 billion, or 5 percent, less than what they would receive under the existing programs in the same period. In 2000, the block grant would provide $7.8 billion, or 8 percent less than states would receive if current law continued.
Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research and advocacy group, said, "The block grant represents a decline in food purchasing power per student." To deal with such a decline, he said, schools would have to reduce meal portions or quality, raise lunch prices or take other action to shave costs.
The school lunch provisions of the welfare bill were written by the House Committee on Economic and Educational Opportunities, headed by Representative Bill Goodling, Republican of Pennsylvania. Under the bill, he said, the school lunch program would grow by 4.5 percent a year, and to prove this, he listed what he said were "the bill's authorizations for school lunch spending."
But the bill does not set precise spending levels for the school lunch program, instead prescribing amounts for the block grant as a whole.
The numbers cited by Mr. Goodling came from a work sheet used by the Republican staff of his committee to illustrate how money in the block grant might be divided among various types of food assistance. The block-grant money could be divided in many other ways, with state officials ultimately making those decisions.
The work sheet shows that in setting the amount of the block grant, Mr. Goodling assumed an annual increase of 4.5 percent in one part of the school lunch program, which provides cash reimbursements to schools. But schools also receive commodities like meat, fruit and vegetables from the Federal Government, and under the block grant the Federal money earmarked for such purchases in each of the next few years would be slightly less than the amount available this year.
Considering commodities as well as cash, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that Federal spending for the school lunch program would increase under current law by an average of 5.3 percent a year from 1996 to 2000. By contrast, the block grant in the bill passed by the House would increase 4.1 percent a year.
Another provision of the welfare bill would allow state officials to use up to 20 percent of the school nutrition block grant for other purposes, like child care. Next year, for example, $1.3 billion of the $6.7 billion in block grant money could be shifted in that way.
President Clinton said recently that the Republicans wanted to "cut the school lunch program and end it." Mr. Gingrich said last week that "we eliminated one group, Washington bureaucrats," and transferred much of their power to state officials, but he said it was absurd to suggest that children would not be fed.
Here, too, the Republicans have had trouble laying to rest the Democratic contentions because the Federal framework for the school lunch program, including uniform national nutrition standards, would be scrapped under their proposal. The Republican bill calls for the National Academy of Sciences to develop "model nutrition standards," but does not require states to observe them as a condition for receiving Federal money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF PENNSYLVANIA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF PENNSYLVANIA (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LUNCH AND BREAKFAST PROGRAMS; FEDERAL AID (US) SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); CHILD CARE (88%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); POLITICS (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (76%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (74%); NUTRITION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT NEWT GINGRICH (88%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



219 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says He May Veto Welfare Bill

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., April 8

 BODY:
President Clinton today defended affirmative action and attacked the House Republicans' welfare plan, threatening a veto unless it is changed to provide more job training and education.
At the same time, Mr. Clinton re-affirmed his commitment both to reviewing programs that give preferences to women and minorities and to an overhaul of the welfare system. In a speech to the California Democratic Party convention here, and in his weekly radio address, he continued the effort he began on Friday to use Congress's recess as an opportunity to sketch out lines of compromise and confrontation with Republicans in the battles to come. 
 In his most detailed recent comments on affirmative action, the President said that there should be no retreat from the concept, but that the feelings of white males facing economically troubling times should be considered.
"We don't have to retreat from these affirmative action programs that have done great things for the American people," he said. "But, we do have to ask ourselves: Are they all working? Are they all fair? Has there been any kind of reverse discrimination?"
In addition, with public opinion polls indicating that a large majority of Americans want sweeping change in the welfare system, President Clinton sharply criticized the House measure, saying it did not provide incentives to work and harmed children. Mr. Clinton said that the Republicans simply wanted to reduce welfare costs, and that their plan provided no education or job-training funds to help people find jobs.
Mr. Clinton also chastised the House Republicans for the bill's provision to deny aid to children born out of wedlock to mothers already receiving welfare. Republicans say their plan removes incentives for unmarried women to have additional children.
"In or out of wedlock, those kids are going to grow up someday," Mr. Clinton told the delegates to the convention. "They're going to be in Berkeley, Stanford or San Quentin or somewhere in between. They're going to be in prison or they're going to be in university or someplace in between. And whether they are or not is due, in part, to what we do and how we behave. Let us not punish the children and cut off our own noses to spite our face in this welfare reform."
The Senate has yet to take up the welfare issue, and Mr. Clinton said that if it approves the House bill unaltered, he will not sign it.
"I want tough welfare reform, but we've got to be practical," he said in his radio address. "If we're going to make people on welfare work, we have to make it possible for them to work."
On Friday, in a speech to a group of newspaper editors, Mr. Clinton laid out his most detailed list of bills passed by the House that he would veto if adopted by the Senate in their current form. While saying he did "not want a pile of vetoes," he said he would not sign House bills on the legal system, Government regulations, crime and the use of American forces in international peacekeeping operations, among others.
In his appearance before the California Democrats, Mr. Clinton spoke emotionally about affirmative action and about the fears, particularly among white men, that have made preference programs one of the Republicans' most prized issues. Last fall, white males voted overwhelmingly for Republican Congressional candidates, particularly in the South.
Since announcing a review of all Federal affirmative action programs earlier this year, Mr. Clinton has said little on the topic.
Today, lowering his voice to nearly a whisper, the President told a hushed hall to imagine what it is like for a 50-year-old white male worker who is worried about his job, his retirement and his ability to send his children to college.
"They go home to dinner and they look across the table at their family and they think they let them down," he said. "They think somehow, what did I do wrong?
"It's pretty easy for people like that to be told by somebody else in the middle of a political campaign in a hot 30-second ad, 'You didn't do anything wrong. They did it to you.' "
California's Democratic Party delegates are struggling to hammer out a position on a potential ballot initiative that would outlaw affirmative action programs in the state. The issue has split the party leadership.
Governor Pete Wilson, a Republican who is exploring a run for the Presidency, has embraced the initiative and turned up the heat on the Democrats by promising to end all state advisory groups that increase use of minorities and women in state hiring and contracting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); WOMEN (78%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); APPROVALS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



220 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Chief Attacks U.S. Critics of Aid

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 8

 BODY:
After hearing United States lawmakers threaten day after day to cut off $20 billion in aid, Mexican officials came here this week to strike back.
Among them was President Ernesto Zedillo, who used his first speech in the United States since taking office to attack critics of his policies and of American aid as backward-looking isolationists. He specifically rebuked Senator Jesse Helms, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, for implying that Mexican billionaires might be drug lords, and the Central Intelligence Agency for telling lawmakers that Mexican oil exports pledged as collateral for the American loans were dangerously eroding. 
 "It should not surprise us that events have tempted some to retreat from free trade, to seek scapegoats or to treat neighbors as adversaries," Mr. Zedillo said, alluding to critics in both countries though initially mentioning none by name.
Speaking to an audience of more than 600 at an American Society of Newspaper Editors convention on Wednesday, he urged them to "resist those who would return us to a time of protectionism, suspicion and isolation."
Mexico's Ambassador to the United States, Jesus Silva-Herzog, said in an interview here that Mexican officials could not rest a second.
"It's incredible," he said on Thursday, a day after House and Senate conferees amended a military appropriations bill with a threatened cut-off of all future loans and guarantees to Mexico. "They have tried in the defense bill. They have tried in the budget bill. We are all over."
Lawmakers' attacks on President Clinton's economic rescue plan for Mexico have increased since he decided two months ago to extend $20 billion in loans under his own authority, without Congressional backing. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, chairman of the Banking Committee, recently proposed a budget amendment blocking aid to Mexico beyond the $5.2 billion already sent.
Mr. Zedillo countered by boasting of economic and political reforms and some signs of an economic turnaround, including a gain of nearly 40 percent in exports this year.
In taking questions after his speech, Mr. Zedillo cast diplomatic niceties aside, relaxing his stiff posture and delivery. One editor mentioned that Senator Helms, in a discussion of Colombian drug trafficking this week, pointedly asked how Mexico's billionaires earned their wealth.
"If Mr. Helms has information supporting his assertion, it is his duty to make public that information," Mr. Zedillo said. "Otherwise, he is in trouble."
Reminded of the C.I.A.'s forecast of eroding oil exports, delivered in a closed Congressional briefing last week, he found fault with the question and then with the agency.
"It is an error to focus on our oil export earnings," he said, adding that rising exports and, soon, an improving economy will allow Mexico to cover its debts. "We are not depending on oil exports to pay back these liabilities."
As for the C.I.A., he said: "Perhaps they were not well informed last week that our Secretary of Energy had just announced that the Mexican Government plans to increase production, starting this year, to increase exports. I think they should have had that information."
Mr. Zedillo received a warm welcome from about 70 Texas business leaders, after months of watching his ministers return shell-shocked from meetings with outraged American investors. More than 40 percent of the nation's exports to Mexico come from Texas, and more than 80 percent are shipped through the state.
In a closed meeting after his speech, the Texans praised his turnaround plans and pledged to keep doing business there.
"I thought it was a realistic but optimistic message," said Robert A. Mosbacher, Commerce Secretary in the Bush Administration and now chairman of the Mexican-United States Business Council.
"You came away with a feeling that he knows what they are and he's going to stay the course," Mr. Mosbacher said in an interview.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernesto Zedillo. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF NEWSPAPER EDITORS CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF NEWSPAPER EDITORS CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; DALLAS (TEX); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); COLOMBIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TRENDS (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); 

PERSON: ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES); MYERSON, ALLEN R; HELMS, JESSE (SEN); SILVA-HERZOG, JESUS (AMB) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



221 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Albanians in Kosovo Fearful of a U.S. Deal With Yugoslavia

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
Many Albanians in the southern Yugoslav region of Kosovo are watching in fear as the United States and its allies negotiate over the United Nations sanctions against Serb-dominated Yugoslavia.
A Western deal with President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia would take away their hope that pressure from the Western allies will force Mr. Milosevic to end the repression of the Albanians here, and grant them autonomy, if not independence. 
 More than 90 percent of the people in Kosovo are ethnic Albanians.
Under Tito's Yugoslavia, it was an autonomous province, though still part of Serbia. In 1989, as Yugoslavia began to fall apart, Mr. Milosevic revoked Kosovo's autonomy.
Since then, the 2 million Albanians in the impoverished province have been living under what they describe as a state of siege. Thousands have lost their jobs, and ethnic Albanians have been barred from schools, sports centers and other public places.
People are often picked up on the streets and tortured, said Nekibe Kelmendi, a lawyer and officer of the Council for the Defense of Human Rights and Freedoms, which has its headquarters in this shabby Kosovo capital.
"The vast majority of the population lives in constant fear," the United Nations Commission on Human Rights said in January.
As the United States negotiates with Mr. Milosevic to recognize Croatia and Bosnia in exchange for an agreement to support lifting United Nations sanctions, many Albanians in Kosovo fear that their plight has been forgotten.
"It would be a catastrophe for us," Ms. Kelmendi said. "It would mean that the international community is indifferent to Albanians."
Many Albanians here want independence, though the more moderate leaders among them would accept the intermediate step of a return to the autonomy Kosovo once had. Mr. Milosevic has shown no willingness even to talk about that. Kosovo is the Serbs' holy land, the home of some of their most cherished monasteries, the land where thousands of Serbs were massacred by Turkish invaders 500 years ago.
So far, in a rare departure from the norm in a world afflicted by ethnic groups going to war to gain their independence, most of the Albanians in Kosovo have adopted a nonviolent approach.
"Maybe it will be an example of how to achieve statehood without killing each other," said Alush Gashi, a medical doctor and a member of the Albanian shadow government here, which continues to operate in spite of prohibitions and repression. "I know it will be difficult."
A deal between Mr. Milosevic and the West would create recruits for the leaders here who are already criticizing other Albanian leaders for being too cautious or accommodating.
"People's patience is wearing thin," said Shkelzen Maliqui, a bearded philosopher who survives as a free-lance writer, sitting in his book-filled office.
"The majority of the Albanians here still believe in the West, but if the West makes a deal with Milosevic, it will radicalize the people," he said.
An outbreak of violence here could not be contained, as it has been so far in Bosnia, Western policy makers and analysts say. Leaders in neighboring Albania have said that in a violent confrontation, they would come to the aid of Albanians here. And any war would be likely to spread to Macedonia, where ethnic Albanians are in a struggle for greater autonomy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (95%); ALBANIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (95%); ALBANIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); TRENDS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); ETHNICITY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); WRITERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); JOSIP BROZ TITO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



222 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The 100-Day Hurricane

 BODY:
Let no one begrudge House Speaker Newt Gingrich full credit for his achievements as a political strategist. For the last five months, he has supplanted the President as the most important shaper of the national political debate. Before that, he pulled off the most difficult trick in campaign planning, which is to impose a single theme on the hundreds of races decided in an off-year Congressional election. No dispassionate judge of political talent can fail to be impressed. This is skill of a high and rare order.
 Yet people do not much like him. Only 16 percent rated him favorably in a New York Times/CBS News Poll. Surely one reason is the lack of an elevating vision in Mr. Gingrich's politics. He projects a seething anger that the American people are picking up on their emotional radar. Even for those who believe that Americans need a dose of fiscal discipline and boot-strap ambition, Mr. Gingrich seems extreme because the nation he would create would be pinched, unfair and punitive. His gift for tactics is not matched by a talent for seasoning power with compassion. 
 The concept of economic justice was the first casualty of the 100 days. Since the Great Depression, American Presidents and legislators have created a rare thing in human history: a place where the few could get very rich, the multitudes could get prosperous and the needy could survive. But Mr. Gingrich envisions a mighty redistribution, an economic system that would heap advantages on the advantaged at a never-before-imagined rate. Even some Republican House members gagged on a Gingrich tax bill described by The Wall Street Journal as "the biggest bonanza in years for the wealthy." Its Friday issue advised the "well off" that it was time to "start salivating."
 Mr. Gingrich's desire to serve the affluent would be less harmful if it were not linked to another development. The 100 days have not been a voyage into the future. They have been a retro plunge toward the industrial-age idea of corporate-controlled public policy. Industry lobbyists have been invited to help write provisions weakening the Clean Water Act. The Republican Congress also wants a "takings bill" that would create a multibillion-dollar welfare plan for corporations that lose money because of air, water, wetland or wildlife laws. The 30-year gains of the environmental movement are facing the threat of legislative extinction.
 Stripped of their populist veneer, the 100 days have been a massive sellout to special interests. The second hundred days promise a similar sellout to the religious right. Ronald Reagan discovered that these voters were willing to cede unlimited economic power to business in exchange for the right to dictate behavior on issues like school prayer and abortion. From their point of view, it is payoff time.
 White evangelicals represent little more than a tenth of the population, but they now control a large number of state Republican organizations. Mr. Gingrich has won and held their devotion by indulging their dreams of state-regulated morality. It is a morality that looks at poverty and lack of education not as correctable conditions but as punishable moral failings. The next step is already in sight. Just as lower taxes and environmental deregulation were the rewards corporations got from the 100 days, the Christian conservatives will be served up a so-called "religious freedom" bill that will insert unconstitutional prayer into public schools.
 All these offenses against common sense are possible because of Mr. Gingrich's success in reshaping the boundaries of Congressional action. Now only two remedies are allowable: tax cuts or spending cuts. The traditional Federal weapons of spending for education, job training, economic development and regulatory enforcement have been retired.
 Before his Friday speech, Mr. Gingrich called in some Reagan spin doctors to make his radical and inhumane anti-federalism sound less scary. But sweetening the Speaker's words cannot hide the starkness of his plan to cripple the American Government's ability to lift this society.
 For weeks, people in both parties have acted as if there was nothing to do but hunker down and wait for the Georgia wind to blow itself out. But there was a whisper of hope in the more important of the two speeches delivered on Friday. In Dallas, President Clinton promised to rally "the quiet reasoned forces of both parties" against the Speaker's assault on social justice and the environment. Maybe with Mr. Clinton's leadership, the Democrats can straighten themselves and walk into the wind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (65%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (64%); RELIGION (62%); CHURCH & STATE (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); WETLANDS (60%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



223 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Buster

BYLINE: By Peter G. Peterson; Peter G. Peterson is chairman of the Blackstone Group, investment bankers, and president of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan group opposed to budget deficits.

 BODY:
We fiscal hawks are presumed to be distraught over the Senate's failure to pass the Balanced Budget Amendment. But there is a silver lining. Victory could have been worse than defeat. The Senate leadership might have paid the price demanded by wavering senators, which was to exempt the Social Security trust funds from the amendment's definition of budget balance. The exemption would have ruined long-term budget reform.
 It is worth revisiting the Social Security exemption now that many senators (including Bob Dole, the majority leader) have vowed to bring up the balanced budget amendment for another vote before the 1996 elections. 
 The inevitable but, to many, unspeakable truth must be understood: fiscal control requires cost-cutting reforms across all major entitlement programs -- including a higher retirement age and an affluence test for upper-income retirees. Trying to achieve long-term budget balance without touching Social Security is like trying to clean out the garage without moving the Winnebago. It simply can't be done.
 One might have hoped that the amendment would steer the nation toward a sustainable fiscal approach: Go easy if necessary in the short term, but make certain that the long-term goal of budget balance is fully met. Perversely, the Social Security exemption would have stood this strategy on its head. It would have inflicted needless near-term pain while letting the long-term problem metastasize.
 Take the near term. Because the amount to be exempted from the amendment -- the combined balance of the Social Security's trust funds, including interest -- is projected to be large for the next two decades, excluding it would have required saving more from a smaller share of the budget.
 In the year 2002, the first year the amendment was to take effect, the balance in the trust funds is projected to be $111 billion. Thus, instead of cutting spending or raising taxes for that year by $322 billion -- a herculean task -- Congress would have to find $433 billion. Ironically, the senators who pushed hardest for the exemption also fretted the loudest over the amendment's "catastrophic" fiscal impact. Their apparent logic: if shooting yourself in one foot feels bad, why not shoot yourself in both?
 Yet in the long term all this sacrifice buys nothing. For it's in the long term that an exemption for Social Security would cause its worst damage. Look at the numbers. The annual Social Security surplus is projected to peak in 2001 (at $156 billion) and then head downhill. By 2019, as baby boomers retire en masse, the trust funds' combined balance will turn negative. By 2025, the deficit will be $352 billion; by 2030, $814 billion; by 2040, $2.3 trillion, and by 2050, $5.5 trillion.
 If Americans have yet to focus on these frighteningly unsustainable numbers, it is because they like to think that benefits are paid out of "trust funds" in which contributions and interest have been set aside. In fact, Social Security has always been a pay-as-you-go system. Its "trust funds" are travesties on the word trust. They have never held anything but Government paper; there are no other assets such as corporate stocks and bonds. Transferring Government bonds from the Treasury pocket to the "trust fund" pocket has done nothing to generate the savings necessary to pay for for what taxpayers have been promised.

To see just how unsustainable entitlement promises are, look at the magnitude of future outlays. The Federal Government's "most likely" forecast tells us that from now until the year 2030 Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits to seniors will swell from $300 billion annually to $3.9 trillion.
 Against the backdrop of these relentless numbers, consider three scenarios that could unfold if Social Security is exempted. We could try financing these costs through borrowing. But as financial markets and foreign investors begin to see the malignant trend lines forming, we would see extraordinarily volatile and dangerous effects on interest rates, inflation rates, equity markets and the dollar.
 We could try to raise payroll taxes enough to continue Social Security's status quo. That option, objectionable in today's political climate, would mean a large reduction in the after-tax living standards of young working families. Social Security payroll taxes would have to rise 38 percent by the year 2010 to maintain promised benefit levels. And that would be on top of the other huge tax hikes required to cover the steep projected growth in health care benefits and to make up for the total disappearance of the "trust funds" surplus with which we now pay for other Federal spending.
 There is a third option, and that is to wait until we have no other recourse but to enact a sudden and immediate cut in benefits. Think ahead to the year 2030. Americans who are now 30 to 55 years old dominate the retired population. The annual deficits are unfinanceable. And huge tax hikes are ruled out. So what could Congress do? To keep annual spending within annual revenue, Congress would have to cut total Social Security outlays by at least a quarter across the board.
 The best way to assess the impact of such a jolt is to think about today's five million Social Security households with annual incomes of under $10,000 (which receive an average benefit of $5,180) and eight million with annual incomes of $10,000 to $20,000 (average benefit, $7,870). With about half of all recipients relying on Social Security for more than half their income, large-scale cuts in the future would shred the very safety net that Social Security was created to provide.
 All this would happen because today's political leaders chose the expedient course of denying the undeniable and trying to insulate Social Security from the reality of its own fiscal projections.
 Future historians may record the irony that Social Security's "defenders" of the 90's -- the ones who most wanted to exempt the program from gradual and timely reform -- succeeded only in wrecking this safety net for those who needed it most.
 Consider the big picture. Controlling the cost explosion in Medicare is going to be torturous. It certainly won't be made any easier by a budget rule that tells us that we have to hit the senior health trust funds twice as hard because the senior cash trust funds have been ruled out of bounds.
Yes, we may have to weigh health benefits against retirement benefits, farmers' benefits against veterans' benefits, Federal pensions against student loans, benefits to the poor versus subsidies for the well-off. No one can foresee how these choices will be made. But surely it would be the height of presumption to limit, through exclusions enshrined in the Constitution, the freedom of future voters to make the very choices we cannot yet bear to face ourselves.
 In the immortal phrase of the economist Herbert Stein, "If your horse dies, we suggest you dismount." When do we dismount? If we start now, the necessary reforms can be introduced gradually, without requiring the painful sacrifices from seniors who are already retired or those in genuine financial need. But if we keep procrastinating, a much darker prospect is plausible.
 Exempting Social Security from a balanced budget amendment, and from the debate, does nothing to help us get busy with the fiscal challenge ahead. By blinding us to the full magnitude of that challenge, all it does is get in the way of common sense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; CONSTITUTIONS BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, PETER G PETE PETERSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



224 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: April 2-8: He Took at the Office;
United Way's Head Guilty, But Giving Goes On

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
A Federal jury found William Aramony, the long-time president of United Way of America, guilty of taking more than $600,000 from the charity and using it for vacations and other luxuries for himself and a teen-age girlfriend. Mr. Aramony's attorney said he will appeal. Still ahead is a suit by the New York Attorney General charging Mr. Aramony and another former executive with breach of fiduciary duty.
 United Way of America is to unveil a plan to improve both its image and its fund-raising. Opinion surveys show that confidence in United Way "has pretty well recovered," said Elaine Chao, president of the organization, which provides marketing and other services to local United Way drives. Fund-raising has also recovered. 
 On an inflation-adjusted basis, however, the $3 billion raised by the 2,100 independent United Way fund drives is not far above the amounts raised 25 years ago. "With some new strategies, we hope to make a quantum leap in the future," Ms. Chao said. "It is more important than ever for the private sector to step up and be more involved in giving and volunteering." KAREN W. ARENSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (95%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (95%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: EMBEZZLEMENT FUNDRAISING (90%); VERDICTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; ARAMONY, WILLIAM ELAINE CHAO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



225 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Rockies Open Their Wallet For Two Stars

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla., April 8

 BODY:
Jerry McMorris of the Colorado Rockies has served recently as the lead negotiator in the baseball owners' effort to place a serious drag on player salaries. Today McMorris's Rockies erupted in the most extravagant spending spree of their three-year history.
In the face of hefty free-agent unemployment and severe salary slashes for many players who have found jobs, the Rockies joined their high-revenue, big-spending brethren by committing $35.15 million worth of contracts to the free agents Larry Walker and Bill Swift. 
 Walker, who will be the Rockies' right fielder, agreed to a four-year deal worth $22 million, a $5.5 million average that exceeds his $4,025,000 salary with the low-revenue Montreal Expos last year. Swift, a 21-game winner for San Francisco in 1993 who skidded to an 8-7 record last season, accepted a three-year, $13.15 million package after completing a three-year, $7.95 million contract with the Giants.
Swift was one of a raft of pitchers who completed new agreements today. Most of the others did not avoid the salary-slashing spree.
Jim Abbott, who was not tendered a contract by the Yankees, signed with the Chicago White Sox for one year at $2 million, down from $2,775,000. He could earn an additional $750,000 if he starts 28 games and pitches 180 innings. Terry Mulholland, who had a $3.35 million salary with the Yankees, joined the Giants for $1.25 million. And Tom Browning, whose salary with Cincinnati last year was $3.5 million, signed with Kansas City for $300,000.
The Baltimore Orioles, scrambling to keep up with the moves of the high-spending Yankees and Toronto Blue Jays, added Kevin Brown to their pitching rotation for one year and $4,225,000, the same salary he had with the Texas Rangers last year. The Orioles also signed Doug Jones ($1.15 million, down from $3.25 million) and Jesse Orosco ($400,000, down from $700,000) for their relief corps.
The Rangers replaced Brown with Bob Tewksbury, to whom they gave $1.5 million, a $2 million drop from his $3.5 million with St. Louis. Orel Hershiser, a member of the Los Angeles Dodgers for his entire 12-year career, moved to the Cleveland Indians for $1.4 million. He had been working under a three-year, $10 million contract.
The Florida Marlins, the Rockies' expansion partners in 1993, spent some money, too, enrolling two pitchers for their rotation. John Burkett, Swift's teammate in San Francisco who had a $3.55 million salary, received a two-year deal for $6.9 million, and Bobby Witt accepted $1.8 million after having had a $3.25 million salary with Oakland.
The Marlins also signed a hometown player, the 40-year-old Andre Dawson, for his 20th and final season. Dawson, racked by knee ailments, will receive a farewell salary of $500,000. The past two years, Dawson had a $9.3 million contract with Boston.
Witt was a one-day resident here at the Players Association's camp for jobless men. Just as today's workout began, he arrived in street clothes and returned the $75-a-day expense money he had received Friday.
"Congratulations, we'll miss you," Judy Heeter, the union's licensing director, said.
Witt was not the first camper to get a job. Outfielder Mike Devereaux was on his way out of the Homestead Stadium parking lot after the initial workout Friday when he learned he would be joining the Chicago White Sox for $800,000 (down from last year's $3,375,000 with Baltimore).
After today's workout, Dave Stewart announced that he, too, was leaving camp. He had agreed to return to the Oakland Athletics, for whom he won 20 or more games for four successive seasons, for a $1 million salary, a pay cut of $3.25 million from what he earned with Toronto last season.
Elsewhere in camp, the voices of unemployment spoke. They were filled with hope, uncertainty, anxiety.
Howard Johnson sat in the clubhouse, looked around the room and said: "If you walked around the room, almost to a man, guys would say they'd rather not be here. It's not the greatest thing in the world to be here."
Johnson talked about mild interest from Japan that didn't intrigue him and a more promising recent contact with a major league club.
"The thing I have to keep dealing in my mind with is we worked hard all winter to get ready for a season we didn't know would open," he said. "All the anxiety of the strike, then it's over and you come here and you have three weeks and there's a realistic possibility nothing will happen. Now what do you do? In my heart, I'm not ready to quit."
Johnson talked of the signings back-up that created "an avalanche of players trying to hook on with the right team."
"In the back of everybody's mind," he added, "in three weeks when camps break, what's going to happen? Guys will go into forced retirement."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Cardinals Acquire Cooper
 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., April 8 (AP) -- The St. Louis Cardinals acquired the All-Star third baseman Scott Cooper from the Boston Red Sox today, making a trade that had been rumored for months.
Boston got outfielder Mark Whiten and pitcher Rheal Cormier in the deal, while St. Louis also got reliever Cory Bailey.
Cooper, 27, who grew up a Cardinal fan and still lives in a St. Louis suburb, hit .282 with 13 homers and 53 runs batted in last season. His acquisition means Todd Zeile will move to first base.
Whiten, 28, hit .293 with 14 homers and 53 r.b.i. Cormier, 27, was 3-2. Boston will try Terry Shumpert, Luis Alicea and Tim Naehring at third.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The longtime Dodger Orel Hershiser donned an Indians cap yesterday after signing with Cleveland. (Pierre DuCharme/The Lakeland Ledger); Jerry McMorris of the Rockies signed Larry Walker, right, and Bill Swift to contracts totaling $35.15 million. (Associated Press)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (56%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (66%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); 

COMPANY: COLORADO ROCKIES COLORADO ROCKIES (95%); COLORADO ROCKIES (95%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES COLORADO ROCKIES (95%); COLORADO ROCKIES (95%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (56%); COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (66%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) BASEBALL (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; WALKER, LARRY; SWIFT, BILL JIM ABBOTT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1995



226 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: County's Congress Members Speak Out

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR members of both parties, the first 100 days of the 104th Congress have spelled change -- and the experiences of the four United States Representatives from Westchester are no exception. At the Capitol here last week, the veteran Republican member of the county's contingent reported that he was finally realizing a long-cherished dream after 22 years. Two incumbent Democrats said they had discovered, embarrassingly at times, what it felt like to be on the minority side of the aisle. And a Republican newcomer to Congress observed that she could not have picked a better time to come to this city.
For Benjamin Gilman, a Republican who has served the 20th Congressional District since 1972, last November's Republican sweep meant that he could finally ascend to the chairmanship of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, a post he had coveted for many years as a member of the minority party. A middle-of-the road Republican, Mr. Gilman said the last three months in Congress had given him "the opportunity to shape policy rather than just react." 
 Nita Lowey -- a Democrat from the 18th District who held on to her appointment from the last session to the powerful House Appropriations Committee -- said the last 100 days have meant watching in frustration as student loan plans, safe and drug-free school programs, summer job bills and heating assistance for the elderly "got zeroed out" by the Republicans "with the flick of a finger." This session of Congress, the third-term legislator said, "hasn't been a happy time."
Eliot L. Engel, a Democrat from the 17th District who is serving his fourth term in Congress, said this time around has been marked by several difficult moments -- like the time he mistakenly entered the majority staff office of the House Committee on Economic and Educational Opportunities only to realize there wasn't a familiar face in the crowd. "I was shell shocked the first few weeks," Mr. Engel recalled. "It has taken time to adjust to the changes."
Sue Kelly, the Republican who is serving her first term as a representative from the 19th Congressional District, used terms like "gee whiz" and "neat" to describe the current session of Congress and said she was especially pleased with the Republicans' progress on welfare reform. "If I had to pick a Congress to be in," she said, "this is the one." Mrs. Kelly was elected to the post long held by the Republican Hamilton Fish Jr., who retired at the end of the last term.
In a period marked by a sea change in politics and programs, the four legislators, like the current Congress, said they were holding fast to their ideals and to their independence and would not be swept along by party sentiment alone.
The two Republicans said that even though they espoused their party's major principles, they also would pursue their own agendas. And although the two Democrats were frustrated and angry at the Republican sweep -- as were others in their party -- each said they were confident that a way could be found to realize at least part of their goals.
For Mr. Gilman, who has gained a reputation as a consensus builder, this session -- his 12th in Congress -- has meant an opportunity to put his moderate brand of Republicanism to work at a time when the more conservative elements of the party appear to dominate. A self-styled party independent, the 72-year-old legislator said he governs "under no one's thumb, including that of Newt Gingrich -- far from it."
He added, "Independence has been a hallmark of my career, and will continue to be."
His greatest achievement to date in this session, he said, is passage in the House of the National Security Revitalization Act, which calls for, among other things, a greater role for Congress in foreign policy. Mr. Gilman has criticized President Clinton for committing troops to overseas missions without fully consulting Congress. The bill has yet to go before the Senate.
Mr. Gilman -- who represents all of Rockland County and parts of Orange, Sullivan and Westchester Counties, including Greenburgh and part of Yonkers -- supported welfare reform and opposed term limits, which he said "put a straightjacket on voters."
He added: "It's nice after more than 40 years to know you have the votes on key issues. That has been a major change."
For the 46-year-old Mr. Engel, change has meant "groping around for a new role" in recent months, now that the Democrats are out of power for the first time in the legislator's career both here and in the State Assembly in Albany.
These days, Mr. Engel concedes that he has a new and harder edge to his personality. He described himself as "on a crusade" and said he has "squared his shoulders" for the continued fight with Republicans.
"The G.O.P. is driven by right-wing zealots who want to undo 60 years of programs that protect American workers and children," said Mr. Engel, whose district covers areas of the Bronx and lower Westchester, including part of Pelham, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle and Yonkers. "They want to take us back to the days before the New Deal."
His vocabulary, too, is more peppered this session, with "mean spirited" as a frequently used term to describe the opposition.For example, he says, "Theirs is mean-spirited legislation."
"Welfare reform is mean spirited."
"They call it a Contract With America, but I call it a contract on America."
Mr. Engel's tougher stance has paid off at times, despite Republican opposition. He was among a group of Democratic legislators who averted a plan to cut more than $11 million in Federal funds from New York City's nutrition program for the elderly.
Representative Engel serves on the House Committee on Economic and Educational Opportunities and the Committee on International Relations. He is also a member of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, the Democratic Study Group on Health and the Long Island Sound Caucus. He is co-chairman of the Albanian Issues Caucus and is an executive board member of the Congressional Ad Hoc Committee on Irish Affairs.
Mrs. Lowey, also irritated by the Republican agenda, said she felt heartsick watching some programs that she had supported go down. But she also said, "The idea is to get the job done, and if you can't do it one way, you do it another."
One way was to garner the news spotlight early in the session for continued financial support of public broadcasting. Mrs. Lowey held up hand puppets of Bert and Ernie, two "Sesame Street" characters, during a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing in January and found herself on the front pages of newspapers across the country hammering home the message to Congress that public broadcasting benefited poor children as well as middle- and upper-class youngsters. Mr. Gingrich, the House Speaker, has said public broadcasting caters to an elite audience.
The 57-year-old Mrs. Lowey represents parts of the Bronx and Queens, Eastchester, Harrison, Mamaroneck, part of Pelham, Rye Town, Rye City, Scarsdale, part of Mount Vernon, part of New Rochelle, part of White Plains and part of Yonkers.
She is co-chairwoman of the bipartisan Congressional Women's Caucus and said she was working to preserve a woman's right to choose an abortion and favors programs that promote women's health and educational equity.
As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which finances health, labor and education programs, Mrs. Lowey supports spending tax dollars for breast cancer and other types of biomedical research, education programs like student loans and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
Confident that voters will soon tire of Republican cutbacks, Mrs. Lowey said that in the meantime she will focus on bipartisan efforts to effect change. "Everything here is based on relationships," she said. "We can still get things done."
Representative Kelly's agenda also includes women's issues, but from her basement offices at the Capitol last week, she described a sharply different agenda from Mrs. Lowey's.
Mrs. Kelly said a revised welfare bill was the surest way to help poor women move up economically. "Instead of a handout," she said, "women need a hand up."
Women on welfare also need jobs so they can set an example for their children to follow and finally break the generation-to-generation cycle of dependency on Government programs, she said.
But while she followed the Republican agenda on most issues, she said she had "no trouble being my own woman," adding that she ran in the election without the official support of the local Republican leadership.
She said that during the current session of Congress she had parted ways with many fellow Republicans on the issue of nutrition programs. She joined Democrats in her support of nutrition programs for the elderly, which recently became part of the Older Americans Act.
Mrs. Kelly -- who represents Bedford, Cortlandt, Lewisboro, Mount Kisco, Mount Pleasant, New Castle, North Castle, North Salem, Ossining, Peekskill, Pound Ridge, Somers, Yorktown, part of White Plains, Putnam County and part of Dutchess County -- has been appointed to the Transportation and Infrastructure, Small Business, and Banking and Financial Services Committees.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representing Westchester County in Congress: Nita Lowey, top, before House Appropriations subcommittee; Eliot Engel, far right center, with American Medical Association group, and Sue Kelly in her Washington office. (pg. 1); Benjamin Gilman, Republican of the 20th Congressional District, addressing Agudath Israel of America in Washington. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) AGUDATH ISRAEL OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AGUDATH ISRAEL OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) AGUDATH ISRAEL OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AGUDATH ISRAEL OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; GILMAN, BENJAMIN A (REPR); LOWEY, NITA M (REPR); ENGEL, ELLIOT L (REPR); KELLY, SUE (REPR) ELIOT L ENGEL (89%); NITA M LOWEY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1995



227 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: Secret Guatemalan Military Unit, Linked to C.I.A., Dies and Is Born Again

 BODY:
The following article is based on reporting by Clifford Krauss in Guatemala City and Tim Weiner in Washington and was written by Mr. Weiner.
The enormous building under construction on Seventh Avenue in downtown Guatemala City is supposed to be an icon of reform -- the headquarters of a new civilian intelligence service. 
 Officially, that new service will replace the disbanded, despotic unit known as "the Archivo," whose ranks have included the Guatemalan colonel and C.I.A. agent linked to the 1990 slaying of an American citizen.
But the Archivo -- which for years spied on and sometimes murdered Guatemalans -- is still in business, though under a different name, foreign diplomats and a former Guatemalan Defense Minister say. And death-squad killings, torture and the arbitrary detention of peasants, students, academic figures and political leaders are still going on Guatemala, the United Nations mission there reported in March.
The half-completed building is a freeze-frame image of where things stand today within Guatemala's intelligence services -- somewhere between brutal repression and unrealized reform.
The Clinton Administration suspended most of the covert aid flowing from the Central Intelligence Agency to the Guatemalan military last week, preserving only a counternarcotics program. But the deep and tangled connections between the C.I.A. and its "assets" in Guatemala continue to enhance the military's dominance as civilians try to secure control of the nation's politics.
The question of who paid for the building seems to be a sensitive one. A construction company executive working on the project, Jesus Garcia, said it would be a Defense Ministry office. Asked where the money came from, he laughed nervously. Not the Defense Ministry, he said, but "another agency that I can't identify, exactly." A senior State Department official involved in Guatemala policy, asked if any American money went toward construction of the building, replied: "I don't think I can get into that. There shouldn't be."
The State Department official said the question could only be answered by the Clinton Administration's sweeping investigation of C.I.A. involvement in Guatemala -- an elaborate search for facts that has proved so difficult that one senior White House official called it "a total nightmare."
The C.I.A.'s direct financial support for Guatemala's military intelligence services totaled roughly $30 million during the Reagan, Bush and Clinton Administrations, according to United States intelligence officials. As the cold war wound down and Central America ceased to be a battlefield between the superpowers, it fell from a peak of about $4.5 million in 1989 to about $1 million this year.
The Administration is now assessing what the agency received in return for its money and what role the C.I.A. should play in Guatemala's future.
 
Partnership
The C.I.A.'s Goal: Trade and Gather
 The C.I.A. and its defenders in Congress and the State Department say the agency's Guatemala station worked hard to instill professionalism and discipline in hundreds of intelligence officers in the Central American nation, which has the worst human rights record in the region. But critics say the agency's efforts were offset by its abundant support for a military that was essentially waging war against civilians.
The C.I.A.'s role in Guatemala was also to supply information for policymakers in Washington. That effort is now being viewed in a harsh light.
Faced with appeals in 1990 and 1991 to find the officers who ordered the killing of Michael DeVine, the American innkeeper murdered in Guatemala, the C.I.A. could not provide the information that its own agent, Col. Julio Roberto Alpirez, was implicated in the killing.
In 1992, the C.I.A. turned to its sources inside the Guatemalan military for information on human rights problems. That reliance helped produce an agency report that Senator William S. Cohen, a Maine Republican and a member of the Senate intelligence committee, described last week as "deliberately designed to mislead" the United States Congress.
The same critics in Congress and the State Department who say the C.I.A has undermined human rights policy on Guatemala say the agency did good work when its focus shifted from the war on Communism to the war on drugs in the early 1990's.
An estimated 70 tons a year of Colombian cocaine flow through Guatemala en route to the United States. Under the agency's guidance, the Guatemalan military has infiltrated cocaine-trafficking organizations and stopped some big shipments, State Department officials say.
"The only reason to have a C.I.A. station down there is because of the war on drugs," said Thomas F. Stroock, the Ambassador to Guatemala from 1989 to 1992. "But if you're going to interdict drugs, you have to use the agency involved in the country. Unfortunately, in Guatemala, that's the army.
"At the same time you're beating these people over the head because of human rights, you're using them to stop drugs," he said. "It's a dilemma."
The Guatemalan military has the power to stop United States drug operations any time it wishes. At least 10 current and former Guatemalan military officers have been identified by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and other agencies as suspects in cocaine trafficking. And "officers strongly suspected of trafficking in narcotics rarely face criminal prosecution," according to a recent State Department report.
In one recent example, a lieutenant colonel in the Guatemalan Army, Carlos Ochoa Ruiz, was indicted in Florida on charges of shipping more than 1,000 pounds of Colombian cocaine through Guatemala. In March 1994, the highest-ranking justice in Guatemala, Epaminondas Gonzalez Dubon, president of the Constitutional Court, ruled in favor of Colonel Ochoa's extradition to the United States. A few days later, four men assassinated the justice.
 
Personnel
The Hard-Liners And Their Heirs
 The public revelations about the C.I.A.'s relationships with senior Guatemalan military officers have deepened tensions between two factions in the army, the hard-liners and the modernizers.
Diplomats and analysts say both groups have poor human rights records and share the goal of maintaining strict order through repression to preserve military control. Both have long ties to the C.I.A.
But while some members of the old guard are involved in traditional economic crimes like car theft, smuggling timber and working in concert with drug smugglers, the modernizers tend to steer clear of those areas. "The hard-liners are out of Godfather I, and the modernizers would fit in Godfather III," said a South American diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They prefer clean businesses like telecommunications, banks and property."
The old guard fervently opposes any meaningful form of civilian rule. Although Guatemala has had a civilian President since 1986, the army and military intelligence services still wield power in every domain of public life.
The modernizers also want to protect the military's immense power but realize that it needs to adapt to the changing political mood in Central America and to the end of the cold war. In the late 1980's, they grasped that international criticism of the army's human rights violations -- it has killed some 110,000 Guatemalans during the last three decades -- required at least the appearance of civilian leadership and skilled use of the language of democracy.
The idea was that the people need a little political breathing space, although they should be arrested if they got out of line. "Let the trade unions organize, let students demonstrate and repress them only selectively," is how Jennifer Schirmer, an American anthropologist, sums up their philosophy. Ms. Schirmer has interviewed dozens of officers for a forthcoming book on the Guatemalan military.
A turning point for the modernizers came in the late 1980's, in part from conversations that Hector Gramajo, then the Defense Minister, said he had with the C.I.A.'s station chief. The station chief from 1988 to 1991 was a former National Security Council staffer with a geopolitical flair. The former station chief still serves as a C.I.A. officer but is now based at the agency's headquarters.
General Gramajo, now retired from the Army said he advised the station chief to win over the hard-liners with money and military equipment.
The station chief, while still supporting the modernizers, took his advice. After December 1990, when the United States angrily cut off overt military assistance to Guatemala because of the military's stonewalling in the DeVine case, the C.I.A. continued to send covert aid, disbursing an estimated $10 million before that support was suspended last week.
Based partly on information supplied by the station chief, the policy of the United States evolved to support the modernizers in the military, analysts say. "The C.I.A. wants information from everybody, but when it tries to promote officers it seeks to promote the modernizers," said Gabriel Aguilera Peralta, a political scientist who heads International Relations and Security Studies at the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences, a Guatemala City think tank. An Administration official who monitors Guatemala agreed with Mr. Aguilera's analysis.
The modernizers are the reason why "the Archivo doesn't exist by that name, but it continues to exist," Mr. Aguilera said. "The modernizers in the army want to legalize it and institutionalize it."
 
Reshaping
Disbanded Agency Makes a Comeback
 In 1993, President Ramiro de Leon Carpio announced that he was abolishing the Archivo, which kept files on thousands of Guatemalans, tapped their telephones, read their mail and occasionally committed political assassinations.
"Officially, the Archivo doesn't exist," said General Gramajo, now a conservative presidential candidate. "But it does exist -- until a new organization replaces it."
He added that the new, supposedly civilian intelligence organization, whose creation still has not been approved by the Guatemalan congress, already "has too much military orthodoxy" imbedded in it.
President de Leon Carpio, who was once the Government's human rights ombudsman, has recently become more supportive of the military -- particularly since the assassination of his cousin, a former presidential candidate.
Last week he denied what the C.I.A. has tacitly affirmed -- that Colonel Alpirez was in the agency's pay and that the C.I.A.'s Guatemala station penetrated the highest ranks of the military. He rejects repeated reports by human rights groups that clandestine jails still hold political prisoners in Guatemala.
But the United Nations mission in Guatemala reports that between Nov. 21, 1994, and Feb. 21, it received reports of 22 political assassinations, 10 attempted assassinations and 68 death threats against priests, labor leaders, teachers, public prosecutors and human rights campaigners.
Meanwhile, hundreds of workers toiled on the enormous building one block south of the old Archivo headquarters, where death-squad vans have come and gone through military and civilian governments for the last two decades.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A half-finished building in Guatemala City is to become the new headquarters of a civilian intelligence service that replaces the officially disbanded "Archivo," whose ranks included the Guatemalan colonel and C.I.A. agent linked to the slaying of an American citizen in 1990. A student collected money for a protest march, wearing a hood over his face to hide his identity from security agents. (Rachel Cobb for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); 

CITY: GUATEMALA CITY, GUATEMALA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); GUATEMALA CITY, GUATEMALA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TORTURE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GUATEMALA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COLD WAR (75%); MURDER (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); POLITICS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINER, TIM; KRAUSS, CLIFFORD RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



228 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Military Steps Up Drive Against Major Drug Trafficker

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: CHIENGMAI, Thailand, April 9

 BODY:
Khun Sa, the Asian drug baron who is responsible for much of the heroin on the streets of the United States, is facing a wave of attacks by the Burmese Army intended to destroy his rebel army.
The military Government of Myanmar, the country formerly known as Burma, has massed thousands of soldiers along the vast stretches of northeastern Myanmar controlled by Khun Sa and his well-armed 20,000-man army. 
 The Burmese Army has confirmed that dozens of its soldiers have been killed and hundreds wounded in fighting in the last few weeks. Diplomats say Khun Sa's forces are reported to have suffered a similar number of casualties.
Khun Sa clearly understands that the threat he faces this year is far more serious than any before, and he has staged a series of spectacular attacks intended to persuade the Government to call off its forces. On March 20 his army attacked the Burmese border town of Tachileck, destroying military compounds, killing several soldiers and forcing more than 1,000 people to flee.
Khun Sa -- who is half Chinese and half Shan, a Burmese ethnic minority -- says he is fighting for the independence of the Shan people.
He says he does not produce heroin but only taxes drug traffickers who cross through his area of control. But law enforcement officials around the world say he is above all a heroin dealer, whose narcotics empire is one of the world's largest.
Myanmar is the world's largest producer of opium, and Khun Sa is accused of refining and smuggling huge amounts of the drug to the United States, Western Europe and Asia. He has been indicted in the United States on narcotics charges.
The Burmese military Government once faced a dozen ethnic insurgencies along its borders. But in the last three years it has negotiated peace settlements with most of its separatist opponents and crushed others. In February it overran the headquarters of another large ethnic insurgency, the Karen, forcing thousands into Thailand.
With success against the Karen and recent arms shipments from China, their principal ally, the Burmese military leaders set their sights on Khun Sa. The attack on his forces should be welcome news for the United States, which has long sought the destruction of a narcotics empire responsible for much of the heroin smuggled there.
At the same time, Washington does not want to be seen as an ally of the Burmese military leaders, who formally took power after crushing a nascent democracy movement in 1988. The leader of the democracy movement and the winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, is in her sixth year under house arrest in Yangon, the Burmese capital, once known as Rangoon. Diplomats there have suggested that the decision to attack Khun Sa and his rebel army is an effort to persuade the United States and other nations to stop treating Myanmar as a pariah state.
"We are sacrificing a lot of blood and sweat to continue the campaign against Khun Sa," said Lieut. Col. Kyaw Thein, a spokesman for the military Government. "We would like to expect some positive reaction, not only from the United States but from all around the world."
But American officials are not impressed, because the Burmese military turns a blind eye to opium growing by other ethnic groups, most notably the Wa, who signed a peace treaty with the Government in 1989.
Thailand, which long provided sanctuary to Khun Sa and his forces, has has cut off much of the cooperation this year in hopes of closer economic ties to Myanmar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: KHUN SA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; HEROIN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (92%); HEROIN (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); OPIUM (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); ETHNICITY (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); ARRESTS (64%); HOUSE ARREST (63%); INDICTMENTS (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; KHUN SA AUNG SAN SUU KYI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



229 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Auction Only Bills

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.66 percent and a six-month bill was 5.81 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Panamsat Corp., 125,000 shares $1,000 mandatorily exchangeable senior redeemable preferred stock. Mandatory redemption in 2005. B3/--/--. Morgan Stanley Group.
Repap New Brunswick Inc., $650 million of debt securities in three parts. The first part consists of $100 million of first-priority floating-rate senior secured notes due in 2000, --/BB-/--. The second is $150 million of first-priority fixed-rate senior secured notes due in 2000, --/BB-/--. The third, $400 million of second-priority senior secured notes due in 2005, --/B+/--. CS First Boston.
United Dominion Realty Trust, four million shares series A, cumulative $25 preferred stock, Baa2/BBB/--. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch.
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./ Duff & Phelps Credit
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Ohio Public Facilities Commission, $166.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Clark County School District, Nev., $232.31 million of general obligation bonds in two parts. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 South Carolina, $50 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Allegheny County Hospital Development Authority, Pa., $50 million of hospital revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Contra Costa Transportation Authority, Calif., $73 million of tax revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Development Authority of Burke County, Ga., $75 million of pollution control revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan.
Puerto Rico Housing Bank and Finance Agency, $75 million of affordable-housing mortgage subsidy program single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: I (NYSE) (71%); UPM1V (HEL) (70%); MS (NYSE) (57%); UDR (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (71%); NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (70%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (70%); SIC2673 PLASTICS, FOIL & COATED PAPER BAGS (70%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); INTELSAT SA (71%); UPM-KYMMENE CORP (70%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); UDR INC (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); HOUSING BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); STOCK REDEMPTIONS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (67%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); HOSPITALS (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



230 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL TECHNOLOGY;
Between a Hacker And a Hard Place

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
Matt Blaze, a researcher for the AT&T Corporation, had never thought of himself as an arms exporter. But just before he was to fly to Europe recently on business, Federal Customs agents at Kennedy International Airport in New York detained him for more than an hour while they puzzled over the "munitions" device in his carry-on bag.
When the head Customs official was summoned to the room where he was being questioned, Mr. Blaze realized the Orwellian scope of the Federal export laws governing technology that safeguards international business communications. 
 "Are you the guy who wants to export the fancy gun?" the Customs man asked, peering at Mr. Blaze's papers.
"It's not a gun, it's a telephone," Mr. Blaze said. The small box connected to a handset was in fact a scrambling device to thwart hackers, corporate spies and even foreign governments from eavesdropping on his calls back to the United States. But because the device can also thwart American law-enforcement, military and national security agents from eavesdropping on terrorists, drug dealers or foreign agents, the Federal Government defines it as "munitions" -- right up there with rockets, nuclear warheads and fancy guns.
While Mr. Blaze produced the required license at the airport, the Customs official was clearly unfamiliar with this twist in United States export law. "Why do you need a license to export a telephone?" he asked.
"Good question," Mr. Blaze recalls thinking.
Good question, indeed, in the view of a growing number of American companies that want the equivalent of seat belts and air bags as they hit the global information highway in search of new markets and international partners.
Alarmed by accounts of hackers making off with credit card numbers and computer passwords and of saboteurs intercepting trade secrets, American businesses are being advised -- often by the Government itself -- to encode their sensitive electronic information with data-encryption hardware or software. Such equipment scrambles phone calls and electronic mail into gibberish that remains unintelligible to anyone not holding the key to the code.
But at the same time, the Government prohibits businesses from providing their overseas customers or partners with the most advanced American-made cryptographic tools needed to safeguard their communications. It fears that the American technology could be used to break American laws, though few examples of such cases involving encryption have been made public.
There's just one problem: The export policy is honored mainly in the breach. Each day, copies of highly sophisticated cryptographic programs are transmitted out of the United States over computer networks, carried out unseen in laptop computers or secure telephones, or simply sold to foreign citizens in America's software and computer stores. The same technology is already in wide use overseas, available to anyone connected to the Internet global web of computers.
The Software Publishers Association, a trade group in Washington, said it had found more than 150 foreign encryption products equivalent to those that American companies were barred from exporting.
Some Federal officials say the Government may relax the export-control policies in coming weeks, in part to make it easier for traveling executives like Mr. Blaze to take security devices on business trips. But for now, critics say the export restrictions have businesses caught between hackers and a hard place.
"They impede American businesses from having secure global communications," said Bill Moroney, president of the Electronic Messaging Association, a trade group in Washington. "Faced with this dilemma, companies can do it and violate U.S. laws somehow, or not do it and suffer."
The Federal Government says it has ample reason to worry about the consequences of letting American encryption technology into the hands of criminals or hostile governments, but can't discuss its concerns.
"It is a source of deep frustration that a lot of issues around our policies on encryption are classified," said Tom Kalil, a director of the White House's National Economic Council. "We can't talk about them other than to say, 'Well, if you knew what I knew, you might think differently.' "
The argument finds limited sympathy in the corporate world.
"I empathize tremendously with the Government's fear of not being able to crack codes, but what it really comes down to is that export controls don't stop crooks from exporting encryption," Mr. Moroney said. "They only stop United States software companies from having a global market."
The Government is also said to be considering backing down from a two-year standoff with American industry over the so-called Clipper technology. Clipper, designed by the Government, is a family of powerful encryption products to which the Government holds the code keys in escrow in case law-enforcement officials want to conduct court-authorized wire taps.
The Government has allowed export of Clipper-based systems, but American companies and their foreign clients have been loath to use a system to which the F.B.I. or the National Security Agency could obtain a back-door pass key.
The Government is now said to be leaning toward endorsing a commercially developed cryptography system in which a trusted third party -- not the Government -- would hold a spare copy of the code keys. These keys could be made available to law-enforcement officials bearing a warrant. Such a system would still be unpalatable to many privacy advocates, who argue that they have a right to private communications beyond the ear of Uncle Sam.
American companies that want to build their own forms of strong encryption into their products include I.B.M., Digital Equipment, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Apple Computer, Lotus Development, Novell and nearly every other company making hardware or software for the so-called information highway. They say that the Government's export restrictions cost them hundreds of millions of dollars in lost sales and drain millions more in extra development and administrative fees. They also say the United States risks losing its historic leadership role in data security technologies.
"We have had a lot of problems selling overseas because consumers in major enterprises are very well aware of network security issues now," said Ray Ozzie, president of Iris Associates of Cambridge, Mass., and developer of a popular program called Lotus Notes. "They know that the product we sell them abroad has less information security than the one we sell in this country."
The Commerce Department is currently surveying American software and computer companies to determine what economic harm, if any, has been sustained by companies as a result of the export restrictions. Results of the survey are expected to be released in July.
For a Federal license to use the most advanced American encryption technology, businesses must often struggle through endless red tape -- and even then run the risk of rejection. That puts them in a quandary, said the director of network security for a multibillion-dollar corporation based in the Middle West. Like most executives interviewed for this article, he spoke on the condition that neither he nor his company be identified.
"We end up importing foreign encryption tools so that we can communicate with our partners overseas," he said. "Or, we get around the policy with a wink and a nod."
Since breaking the law is so easy and so commonplace, it might seem an option. But those choosing that route proceed at their peril. In San Jose, Calif., a Federal grand jury has been hearing testimony for more than a year to determine whether Philip Zimmermann, a cryptographic software developer, should be prosecuted for export violations.
At an informal hearing at a recent computer conference near San Francisco, six members of a Government task force listened as a procession of petitioners -- including several corporate security managers, representatives of high-tech companies and privacy advocates -- appealed for quick relief from what they described as impractical, ineffective and harmful restrictions.
The result of the Government policy "is that computers on networks are less secure than they should be," said John Gilmore, an executive with Cygnus Support, a software support company in Mountain View, Calif. "Unless the policy is changed, we will continue to see plenty of large- and small-scale intrusions like Kevin Mitnick's."
Mr. Mitnick, who was arrested in January after a two-year Federal manhunt, is accused of breaking into many private computers and taking information that would have been useless to him had it been encrypted.
Mr. Mitnick was unusual, law-enforcement agents and security experts acknowledged, because he apparently did not seek to profit from his collected data. In an era when financial data and intellectual property are often more valuable than physical property, computer networks are an attractive target.
"I know for a fact that hackers are paid to get information," said James Bidzos, president of RSA Data Security of Redwood City, Calif., whose company's technologies are at the core of many popular encryption systems. "People have made offers to us to break into other people's systems, or they want to retain us to decrypt information they got from someone else's computers."
Mr. Ozzie of Iris Associates said he agreed that current policies do not work. "But that doesn't mean they have no basis in logic," he said. "The fact is, law enforcement and national security interests rely on access to unencrypted data. What are they going to do?"
As for Mr. Blaze, he said his days as an arms exporter were over, at least until the laws change.
"My conclusion from all this is that it just isn't possible for an individual traveler to follow all the rules," he said. "Even having gone through the process now, I still have no idea how to obtain, let alone file, the proper forms, even for a device that's already been determined to be exportable."
"The next time," he added, "I'm just not going to take it with me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: U.S. law restricts the export of encryption software that can be used to protect the privacy of computer communications. But the law is hard to enforce, because there are so many ways to carry the software out of the country, including packaged software like Viacrypt PGP; a portable computer; a CD-ROM or floppy disks, or even a mailing label, below, bearing the computer code for a powerful encryption program. (Photographs by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "An Alternative to Clipper Chips"
 Corporations, individuals and the Government have been trying to agree on standards acceptable to everyone for protecting data and telephone transmissions. The Government has proposed a system based on "key escrow" technology - known as Clipper j- but advocates of privacy have resisted its adoption, saying it potentially gives the Government to much ability to monitor private communications. Now a system called commercial key escrow, where decoder keys are kept on file by a trusted third party, may soon be proposed to address both the concerns of privacy advocates and teh Government's interest in monitoring transmissions for reasons of national security.
 
THE CLIPPER SYSTEM
 
Microchips, called Clipper chips, are installed in computers and telephones.
 
A key that can break the code of each chip is then created and split in two. Each half, which is created and split in two. Each half, which is useless by itself, is deposited with two government agencies.
 
When someone wants to send a message or make a call, the chip encodes and locks the message and ecnloses a copy of the chip's serial number.
 
Law enforcement officials armed wiht a warrant can record the message and use a "family key" that decodes the serial number of the chip that made the transmission, but not the message itself.
 
The agents provide the custodial agencies with the serial number of the chip so that both parts of the decoder key can be retrieved and used to decode the transmission.
 
COMMERCIAL KEY ESCROW
 
The system uses software instead fo microchips or other hardware to encode messages.
 
A "data recovery center," either part of a company whose employees need to send coded messages or an outside firm, creates a public and a private encryption key for each person using the service. The public key is given to the user, while the private key remains on file with the center.
 
When sending a message, the public key encrypts the transmission and the indentity of the sender. The name of the data recovery center is sent along with the message, but unencrypted.
 
Law enforcement officials with warrantgs can record messages and then use the I.D. of the data recovery center contained in the transmission to obtain the private key to decode the message.
 
Some privacy advocates argue this system gives the Government the oversight it wants, but keeps the tools for decoding transmissions in the hands of private individuals and corporations. Others say any key-escrow system is unacceptable.
 
(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTER SECURITY; WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TERRORISM; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ESPIONAGE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CODES (CIPHERS) EXPORT TRADE (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CRYPTOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (88%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (88%); AIRPORTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (76%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); DATA SECURITY (75%); WIRETAPPING (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (52%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H MATT BLAZE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



231 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2901 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Welfare: Work Requirements -- A special report.;
Jobs Program Participants: Still Poor and in Need of Aid

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
Araceli Cobarrubias, a 23-year-old single mother of three with a ninth-grade education, still struggles with English. But in the past three weeks, while politicians in Washington have been making speeches about people like her, who are on public assistance, she has been using a vocabulary that would gladden the hardest-line anti-welfare crusader.
"I have to market myself," said Ms. Cobarrubias, whose only job was as a part-time saleswoman in a clothing store nine years ago. "I don't want my kids to be on welfare." 
 She considers herself lucky to be learning how to get off welfare in a San Diego jobs program that aims to usher more welfare recipients into the workplace, so their dependence on public money can be reduced if not eliminated altogether. "I would like receptionist," she said. "I can use phones."
While the program has been lauded by welfare policy experts for doing more than many other welfare-to-work programs, San Diego's success over the past seven and a half years has nonetheless been modest. Because of budget limitations and exemptions for mothers who are disabled or have children younger than 3, only a small minority of welfare recipients receive the special job assistance.
While most of those who pass through the program eventually find work, their paychecks remain extremely small -- the average wage is $5.75 an hour, without benefits -- and many jobs are part time, or temporary. Most of the workers scrape by and are able to insure health care for their children only by remaining on public assistance.
But now Republicans in Washington want to dramatically increase the number of people leaving welfare for work.
The welfare bill that has passed the House, and now goes to the Senate, sets out ambitious new targets in which states must push half of all single-parent recipients into work or training directly related to a job over the next eight years, or lose up to 5 percent of their Federal money. But the bill offers no new money for job training or child care.
Here in San Diego, the people who will be expected to carry out any new policy, from top welfare officials to front-line social workers to the welfare recipients themselves, all say that the system is badly broken. But they are also unanimous in describing the Republican goals as unrealistic.
"Get real," said Hawley Ridenour, a welfare official who directs the San Diego jobs program, part of California's Greater Avenues to Independence, or GAIN. "In today's economy, we're not going to be able to close 50 percent of the cases. A woman with two kids and an 11th-grade education isn't going to get a $12-an-hour job. She's going to get a $4.50-an-hour job. And guess what: She's still poor, and she's still on welfare."
Karol D. Lightner, a GAIN social worker, has 90 clients, mostly single mothers, white, black and Hispanic, with few job skills, many without high school diplomas, all of whom she has to try to get into the work force. Some cannot read or write or speak English. Among them are recovering drug addicts, alcoholics and victims of domestic abuse.
"I tell them, 'You can do it, don't let the system defeat you,' " Ms. Lightner said. " 'Get off welfare. This is no life for you. This is no life for your kids.' "
Between appointments with clients at her downtown San Diego office the other day, she worried aloud: "If they cut child-care funding, what am I going to do with these people? I can't help them get jobs. The first time they get a kid with chicken pox -- bam! They're home for two weeks, and they're out."
Many recipients, she noted, never even show up for the program and are unlikely to hold jobs for long. "There is so much chaos in their lives," Ms. Lightner said. "I had a client tell me, 'Karol, I can't make it to training, I'm being evicted.' Another woman had gang members threatening her family. She had to be home to protect her kids."
Some people do not have the resources even to try, Ms. Lightner said. "There is so much passivity in the welfare system," she said. And, she added, there are some who refuse to join the program, even though they risk losing benefits. Each month, 145 people have their checks reduced for failing to participate.
Because of the exemptions, only 38,000 of the county's 67,000 welfare recipients are eligible for the jobs program. The program gives priority to people who have been on welfare the longest and to volunteers. But the $22 million budgeted is only enough to offer the special assistance to 11,000 recipients at one time, who usually must stay in the program until they find work.
 
The Search
Get a Job, Any Job
 Recently, even as some Republicans in Washington were comparing welfare recipients to alligators and wolves in captivity who become dependent on food handouts, 21 welfare mothers were attending their first GAIN-sponsored Job Club meeting in Chula Vista, just south of San Diego.
They were seated around a long table in a room plastered with signs: "Welfare Dependency -- It's Finally Over," "Change Your Life -- For Good" and "It Pays to Work," with a picture of a pot of money at the end of a rainbow.
The philosophy here is hard-nosed: Get a job, any job, no matter how low-paying, or how grinding, no matter that it may be temporary. Education and training are secondary.
The Job Club leader, Cris Medrano, who wore an "It Pays To Work" button with her pearls and navy blue suit, warned the women that it would not be easy.
"We have the highest unemployment," she said. "People are moving out of California to find work." And with the global economy, she said, the competition is all the more fierce.
She told the women that they could eventually lose their welfare benefits if they did not find work.
Most of the women stared at her with blank expressions. Some looked terrified.
Patricia Jackson, a 28-year-old single mother of three, and a recovering drug addict, spoke up.
"People do get dependent on welfare," she said. "If someone had said to me 10 years ago, 'O.K., Mrs. Jackson, if you don't get a job in three years, you're out,' I might have done it." Looking at the women around her, she asked, "But where are we going to work?"
Mrs. Medrano answered firmly, "We're going to teach you how to market yourselves."
Over the next days, she taught them how to write a resume, fill out a job application and prepare for a job interview. Wear navy blue to interviews, she told them. And "power jewelry," like post earrings. Many of the women said, with embarrassment, that they did not have power jewelry or suitable interview clothes, in any color.
They were all good at something, Mrs. Medrano said. She had everyone make a list of their qualities that might appeal to employers.
Mrs. Jackson wrote: "Hard-working, motivated, enthusiastic, considerate, polite, punctual, trustworthy, good personality."
Parents who are not disabled, or caring for disabled children, or who are not excused for other reasons, are expected to participate in GAIN once their youngest child is over 3.
Mrs. Jackson, whose children are 11, 9 and 2, had volunteered. "My son, Andre -- he's 11 -- he tells me, 'We're the poorest family on the block; when are you going to get that job?' "
GAIN pays for child care as well as transportation to the program for participants. Once they start working, they can deduct child-care costs from their earnings and receive other allowances, so their welfare checks are not reduced dollar for dollar and they are rewarded for their efforts.
But when welfare recipients earn over a certain amount a month -- $1,337 for a family of three -- they stop receiving A.F.D.C. checks altogether. They are still eligible to receive child-care benefits and Medicaid for another year. But it is in the second year, when they have to handle those costs themselves on low-paying jobs, that many mothers find themselves back on welfare. The daunting prospect of losing medical insurance and child-care assistance, officials say, deters many from even making the effort to become independent.
 
The Obstacles
Sick Children, No Experience
 A lot of people on welfare work at least part time, with or without a job program. But an extensive study of the San Diego program begun in 1988 and released last year by the nonprofit Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation in New York, found that GAIN did make a modest increase in a person's likelihood of getting a job. At some point over a three-year period, 62 percent of GAIN participants were employed; 56.5 percent of similar recipients in a control group were employed at least temporarily.
While GAIN participants increased their earnings by 22 percent, they still earned only $1,172 more over three years, on average, than other welfare recipients, according to the study. But such averages mask the fact that a few participants were far more successful while others failed to earn extra money.
With a $22 million budget for the county, the program is expensive. But, according to the study, over time the program paid for itself, with the government getting back a net $1.40 for every net dollar spent since it can reduce welfare payments to those who work.
In California's most successful work program, in Riverside, earnings went up 50 percent, to $3,113 more than other welfare recipients earn, and over time the county saved $2.84 in benefits for every dollar spent. In the past year, San Diego has adopted Riverside's emphasis on pushing recipients directly into jobs, rather than giving many of them extensive training or education, and welfare officials here say they hope their results will improve similarly.
There are always people leaving and entering the system, and GAIN did not make a significant reduction in the caseload. By the end of the third year, 49 percent of those in the program were still on A.F.D.C., while 52 percent of those not in GAIN were still on A.F.D.C., according to the study.
It is impossible to estimate how much it would cost to achieve the ambitious Republican work goals nationally, said Judith Gueron, president of the group that did the study. She said that running a program like California's GAIN on a national scale, with its modest achievements, would cost several billion dollars.
"None of the programs work miracles, but they do make a difference," Ms. Gueron said. "They move people forward. People who are looking for easy solutions don't understand the complexity of the problem."
A visit to the Chula Vista GAIN office revealed some of the obstacles involved in getting parents on welfare into work. Of 26 people scheduled for Araceli Cobarrubias's Job Club last month, 13 showed up on the first day. With no absences allowed, only nine were left at the end of the two weeks.
"People are sick, or their child is sick," said Nancy Spellman, the Job Club leader and a social worker. "Or their grandparent died for the fourth time. They don't have transportation. A lot of people have court cases -- like DWI's -- and a lot of emotional problems."
Ms. Cobarrubias, who is raising two sons, 9 and 6, and a daughter, 4, passed Job Club with flying colors. She has prepared her first resume, listing under skills "multi-line phone," meaning that she can handle a telephone with more than one line. In the apartment where her children share the one bedroom, and where she sleeps on the living room sofa, she has stood in front of the bathroom mirror, as Mrs. Spellman had told her to -- and said aloud: "I can, I am."
She has been videotaped for the job interview she hopes she will get soon.
"Nancy said I have a beautiful smile," Ms. Cobarrubias, who wore a Sesame Street sweatshirt and blue jeans, said shyly.
Ms. Cobarrubias had come a long way, Mrs. Spellman said. "When she came in, she didn't think she could do anything."
Recently, Ms. Cobarrubias listened as Rose Escalante, a job-service worker, read aloud a list of 14 jobs newly available in the area through the state employment agency. There were positions for an engineer, a mechanic, a painter, a bookkeeper, an accounts-receivable clerk, and an administrative assistant experienced in Lotus and WordPerfect.
Ms. Cobarrubias said she did not know anything about computers. "I want to learn typing," she said.
One job that might have been a possibility, as a $5.75-an-hour housekeeper, required six months experience with a floor-waxing machine. "I don't know how to use a wax machine," Ms. Cobarrubias said apologetically.
She said she had applied for a job on her own at the Burger King across from the GAIN office. "They're not hiring now," she said.
She said she had also put in applications at Jack in the Box, at Target and Payless stores, and at the Chula Vista mall.
"They said they were going to call me, but they haven't called," she said. But she added that she was not discouraged. "If there is a job, I will get it."
Ms. Escalante assured the women that there were plenty of jobs that are never advertised. The trick is getting on the phone, and finding them, she said.
Mrs. Spellman said that many of the women have so little confidence that picking up the phone and asking somebody, anybody, even McDonald's for a job is overwhelming.
 
The Hopes
'I Want to Be Important'
 Many mothers in the jobs program here talked about how badly they wanted to get out of the system -- and into the world of work.
"I want to be handing you my business card," said Rosalind Texeira, an energetic 26-year-old single mother of four, and a high school dropout, who hopes to become a medical assistant. "I want to wear high heels. I want to be sophisticated. I want to be important. I want my kids to say, 'My mom's working.' "
But she is already worrying about how she would manage if she did get a full-time job. "They want $60 to $70 a week for child care," she said.
The prospects for many of these women may be influenced as much by broader trends in the job market as by their own efforts, in an era when jobs for the unskilled are less available and pay less than ever.
"It's a tough, tough market," Ms. Escalante said. With Chula Vista only six miles from the border, she added, prospective GAIN workers compete for jobs with Mexicans with green cards who live in Tijuana, where costs are much cheaper, and commute to San Diego and the surrounding area.
Welfare officials say that from 500 to 600 people in the GAIN program get jobs every month, although many have trouble holding onto the jobs for reasons like poor work habits, hardships at home or lack of seniority.
In Chula Vista the other day, Consuelo Fregoso, a 41-year-old mother of three, who does not speak English, was starting a new job search. She said she had been laid off after two months from a $4.25-an-hour job packing candy in a factory. It is not unusual for 50 people to show up at that factory in the morning looking for work, GAIN workers said.
Ms. Lightner, the social worker, said that one of her clients attended a one-day job fair held last year by a Mervyn's department store that was opening in the area. There were 4,500 people vying for 200 jobs. Ms. Lightner's client did not get hired.
Still, there are plenty of inspiring stories. Ms. Lightner talks about Leticia Gonzalez, a mother of three teen-age sons, who had a sixth-grade education, little English and 10 years in the welfare system when she came to GAIN five years ago.
GAIN sent Ms. Gonzalez to truck-driving school. She took English classes at night, and still managed to cook and clean for her family. Today, at 34, she is earning $10.15 an hour, with benefits, as a truck driver. Her welfare case is closed.
Ms. Gonzalez is looking toward the future. "In 10 years I'm not going to be so strong the way I am right now," she said. "I told my big boss I want to learn computers so I can do something different. Anything is possible if you have a goal."
But she is the exception. She has two things a lot of other single mothers lack -- the physical strength to do what has traditionally been a man's job, and relatives willing to look after her children.
Success in the jobs program is more often measured by people like Geraldine Elliget. At 54, she is raising a 13-year-old son alone. Last November she got her first job in 15 years -- as a $4.30-an-hour, part-time, temporary cashier at Kmart. "I was so happy," she said.
She is still at Kmart. And last week she got her second raise, to $4.80 an hour. She says she hopes to get enough hours to earn about $600 a month, with half her pay going to the welfare agency. She does not receive health benefits at work, which is why she says she does not see how she can get off welfare in the foreseeable future.
Still, she said, she is grateful simply to be working. "You come home -- your back hurts, your feet hurt," she said. "But you just feel good. You were productive. You contributed something."
In his office in San Diego, Mr. Ridenour, the GAIN official, had praise for the women who enroll in the jobs program -- for women like Ms. Cobarrubias.
"She is a success," he said, referring to the simple fact that she had completed the program. "But even if everything works for her, she is still going to be a welfare client. Because a single woman with three children, who has to pay for child care, can't live off $6 an hour. That is an economic reality that goes beyond the welfare cycle we want to break."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the success stories of San Diego's jobs program is Leticia Gonzalez, a mother of three who had a sixth-grade education and 10 years on welfare when she entered the program. Now she works as a truck driver, earning $10.15 an hour, with benefits. Araceli Cobarrubias, a 23-year-old participant in San Diego's jobs program who is shown with two of her three children, has prepared her resume and is awaiting the job interview she hopes to get soon. "If there is a job," she said, "I will get it." (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 
Graphs: "The Results of a Welfare-to Work Program"
Here are the results of a survey of former welfare recipients in a welfare-to-work program in four California counties from 1988 to 1990.
 
Participants were contacted two to three years after taking part in the program and asked their work status.
 
Those who reported that they were not working and not looking for a job (the last and largest category shown) were asked to give the "most important reason" for this. Those responses were then classified by researchers into broader categories. (Source: "GAIN: Benefits, Costs, and Three-Year Impacts of a Welfare to Work Program," Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, Sept. 1994.)
 
Chart: "RETHINKING WELFARE: The Push for Work"
 
The goal: To push more recipients into the workplace and foster self-sufficiency.
 
The proposal: In bill passed by the House and now before the Senate, states must place half of all adult welfare recipients in jobs by 2003, or be penalized by a reduction in Federal funds.
 
Current law: States are encouraged to meet more modest employment goals, with Federal funds provided to support education and training.
 
State experience: Strong efforts in several states to prod more recipients into the workplace have had limited success. They require large up-front expenditures for training and other help, though some save money over time by allowing reduced welfare payments.
 
Budget implications: Experts call the goals unrealistic, especially since no extra Federal money for job training is provided. Modest sums may be saved as more recipients earn more on their own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); POLITICS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



232 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: THE MCA SALE: THE GLITTERING PRIZE;
Seagram Deal Buys Glamour And a Cash Cow Called Music

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 9

 BODY:
After weeks of hectic negotiations, yet another wealthy company, Seagram, has put billions of dollars on the line to get into one of the hottest and fastest growing businesses in the world -- music.
Music? Isn't MCA Inc., the entertainment conglomerate that Seagram is buying control of, all about movies, with its Universal Pictures producing huge hits like "Jurassic Park"? Well, yes and no. 
 As anyone familiar with the economics of the entertainment business knows, movies dazzle, but the money that is pumping up many entertainment groups, and in many ways subsidizing the ups and downs of film making, is coming from the recorded music business.
"Film stars still come with the highest level of glamour," said Al Teller, chairman of the music group at MCA (which once stood for the Music Corporation of America). "That's sort of where the aristocracy resides in this town. The emotional reality is one thing, but the economic reality is very different."
With the announcement tonight that it will pay Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, $5.7 billion for 80 percent of MCA, Seagram quickly becomes a major player in the entertainment world -- on several fronts. [Page D8.]
Add up the albums sold and the profits generated and you have a cash machine that is outperforming the combined might of Hollywood.
"You can go in and make an album for next to nothing and if it gets on the radio and catches on, you're totally in Fat City," said Cliff Burnstein of Q Prime, a management company in New York whose acts include Metallica, Def Leppard and Hole. "This is totally a money machine."
Michael P. Schulhof, the head of Sony's entertainment group, acknowledged: "The low-margin side of this business is movie making. Music is turning out huge amounts of cash."
The music recording business, in fact, is going through its most profitable period in history, a remarkable trend of soaring cash flow and booming global expansion. The international markets are generating most of the industry's growth, increasingly because of overseas artists that the big music companies are cultivating.
All the major companies receive most of their revenues from big-name American performers. Still, some of Sony Music's top-selling albums last year were by Patricia Kaas and Francis Cabrel in France. Mariya Takeuchi sold more than three million albums in Japan for Time Warner.
At many of the big entertainment conglomerates, like MCA, Time Warner and Sony, the music business is not only more profitable than film, but more consistently profitable.
MCA, which Matsushita acquired five years ago for $6.6 billion, does not break out operating data by division, but people close to the company say the pretax operating income of the film business tumbled to $130 million last year from $200 million in 1993. And now it is facing a possibly costly disaster with Kevin Costner's newest movie, "Waterworld," which has reportedly cost an astounding $165 million to make -- as Seagram undoubtedly knows.
Meanwhile, MCA's music group pumped out roughly $220 million of the group's overall operating income of $400 million, these people said, and it is bounding ahead at a double-digit clip this year.
Time Warner's film group had a huge year in 1994, generating $565 million in pretax operating income on $5 billion in revenues. Yet the company's music labels, including Warner Brothers, Elektra and Atlantic, churned out $720 million in operating income -- on just $4 billion in revenues -- in spite of some well-publicized executive turmoil.
"We are self-funding," said Jerry Gold, the chief financial officer of Time Warner's music group, the biggest in the industry. "We generate excess cash, and that goes to the corporation."
The Columbia and Tri-Star film studios owned by Sony produced an embarrassing $2.7 billion write-off last year and a $510 million operating loss in the fourth quarter. But its recording operations, acquired from CBS seven years ago, sparkled, producing roughly $550 million in operating income on about $4.5 billion in revenues.
Those figures explain why Viacom, Inc., which bought Paramount Communications last year for $10 billion, is now believed to be eager to build or buy a music business.
Of all the entertainment conglomerates, the Walt Disney Company has done the best job of parlaying its film business into a huge money maker without a big music operation, but it still generates significant income from recording. The top-selling album in 1994, with nearly five million sold, was Disney's "Lion King."
"There are no record companies that lose money," said David Geffen, a co-founder of Dreamworks SKG who sold Geffen Records to MCA five years ago for $545 million. "There are six major companies in that industry, and they all make money. All of the economics of the record business are better."
A few key factors explain the differences between the film and music businesses. A movie now typically costs $50 million to produce and market, while an album typically costs a few hundred thousand dollars. A big record company puts out a few hundred album titles a year, distributing its risks widely, while a movie company puts out a couple of dozen films.
Movie companies must often wait years before they see revenue from a film, while music companies start reaping rewards within months and many albums sell strongly for years. Consumers buy nearly 12 million albums each week, and the largest component of those sales is CD's, which generate about $3 of profit apiece, far more than cassette tapes.
Mr. Gold of Time Warner pointed out that one reason the international business was so promising was that most sales of albums overseas were still on tape cassettes; the switch to CD's in coming years will increase profitability.
The movie business is growing increasingly complex, with a growing percentage of revenue coming not from the box office but from videos, cable, CD-ROM's and merchandise. That is a key reason that film making, with all its difficulties, is still regarded as having strong long-term prospects in these heady days of riotous expansion in the media industries.
But the economics of the music business are still unusually compelling and, more important, are expected to remain so. Only a tiny number of performers -- like Madonna -- can command multimillion-dollar contracts, and those are usually spread over a number of albums. Movie stars, on the other hand, can get that much for a single film.
Take the album "Metallica," which cost a relatively extravagant $1 million to make four years ago when it was produced by Elektra, a Time Warner label. Mr. Burnstein said more than 13 million copies had been sold worldwide. That means it has produced gross revenues of a little more than $100 million.
That is roughly equal to a movie that brought in $200 million in box office revenues. However, most movies that bring in that much money cost tens of millions of dollars to make.
One rock band that Mr. Burnstein's firm manages, Veruca Salt, produced an album last year called "American Thighs." He said the album was likely to sell at least 500,000 units, producing about $4 million in revenues for the recording company, Geffen Records. Not bad for an album that cost $6,000 to make.
Figures like that make the movie industry envious and make it question its own bloated financial structure.
"It's very simple: the inflation of production costs in movies is out of control," said Jonathan Taplin, the producer of "The Last Waltz" and other films and the former tour manager for the Band and Bob Dylan.
He added that the accounting for movies was notorious for piling on so many extraneous costs that movies, unlike albums, rarely produced net profits.
"If you've ever seen a movie account statement, it's malarkey," Mr. Taplin said. He also pointed out that the music business, unlike movies, relied on a stream of fresh talent.
"The recording business is creating new artists every week," Mr. Taplin said. "There are 30 or 40 new breaking bands a year," while in the movies, a a blockbuster star breaks through only once every few years.
Among the other important differences between music and film are that actors almost never sign multiwork deals, while in music that is the norm, and that music fans tend to be much more reliable customers than fickle film viewers.
"Once you're truly established in the music business your sales base is fairly predictable," Mr. Teller of MCA said. "You can count on some level of sales performance. In film, you start from scratch each time out."
Mr. Schulhof commented: "Every film is one-off. Each film is almost like a new business."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Figures that make the film industry envious: Geffen Records is likely to reap $4 million in revenues for an album by the Veruca Salt group, above, that cost $6,000 to make. The success of the album, "American Thighs," demonstrates the profit potential of recordings as opposed to expensive-to-produce films. (Paul Merideth)(pg. D8)
 
Graphs: "Growing Sales" shows total unit sales broken down by compact disks, cassettes LP's and other for 1993 and 1994. (Source: Soundscan); "Music's Six Majors" shows the six giant record distributors and their shares of the domestic market in 1994. (Source: Soundscan)(pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCA INC; SEAGRAM CO LTD; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO PANASONIC CORP (82%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCA INC; SEAGRAM CO LTD; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MOTION PICTURES; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



233 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Big Investor Talked, Grace Listened

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The board room shake-up at W. R. Grace & Company, effected with stunning speed last month, has not yet run its course. But the effort by dissident shareholders to force change at the $4 billion specialty chemical and medical services company is already seen as a watershed in the annals of corporate governance.
The Grace episode has raised eyebrows across the country, not only because the company agreed to make sweeping changes, but because the fight was led by a shareholder -- TIAA-CREF -- that in most respects was more than satisfied with its investment and that in the past had tended to prefer private diplomacy to a public fight. 
 Instead of taking on a company that was performing poorly, the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association/College Retirement Equity Fund decided to push a company that was doing well to do better. The importance of this shift in emphasis is magnified because TIAA-CREF is the world's largest pension fund, with more than $66 billion in stocks alone.
"In the case of Grace, what has happened here is really important," said Robert Monks, a principal at Lens Inc., a Washington money management firm governed by the philosophy that shareholder involvement can increase value.
To Mr. Monks, TIAA-CREF's leading role in the battle with Grace's board represents the passage of shareholder activism from the ideologically driven positions taken by many public pension funds, most notably the California Public Employees' Retirement System, to one that is based on economics.
"CREF is creating the correlation between governance and value," he said. "They have a lot of money invested in the company, but a lot of money in Grace hasn't been made yet. They became involved in order to make money. Ultimately, trustees at other pension funds are all going to have to look at governance the same way."
In recent years pension funds have increasingly sought to put pressure on underperforming companies, most recently at Kmart. What TIAA-CREF did with Grace is a further refinement.
"CREF is taking a very sophisticated approach by judging a company against itself, and what it could be," said Jon Lukomnik, New York City's Deputy Comptroller for pensions. "More power to them."
The implications could be far reaching, because as a way of increasing value for its 1.7 million participants TIAA-CREF has initiated a program that intends to broaden its scrutiny of the companies already in its portfolio.
This month, B. Kenneth West, the former chairman and chief executive of Harris Bankcorp Inc., joined TIAA-CREF as senior consultant for corporate governance. He has a $1 million budget to broaden the fund's scrutiny.
"Our new program involves systematically looking at the corporate governance practices of our portfolio holdings," said John H. Biggs, TIAA-CREF's chairman and chief executive. "We have not done that, and in my view that is where there are corporate governance changes that could affect companies."
The fund is already focusing on its next target, Nucor, a steelmarker based in Charlotte, N.C. TIAA-CREF, which owns more than 900,000 Nucor shares, wants the company to diversify the composition of its board, now made up of five white men -- three current Nucor executives, the other two retired.
As for W. R. Grace, TIAA-CREF made its initial investment in 1990 and had long regarded the board as too big, too old and too in-bred.
But despite a doubling of its investment in January 1994, the fund did not press for changes on Grace's board, because the restructuring strategy pursued since late 1992 by J. P. Bolduc, who was then the president and chief executive, appeared to be on track. When Mr. Bolduc abruptly resigned on March 2, CREF's confidence in Grace's management was shaken.
Less than two weeks after discussions with the company, CREF formally proposed a mandatory retirement age of 70 for board members.
On March 17 the company relented, announcing that J. Peter Grace Jr., the company's 81-year old chairman, would not stand for re-election. The company also said that the size of the board would be cut to 12 from 22 and that Mr. Bolduc's successor, once selected, would be able to replace half the remaining directors.
That commitment was upheld on Thursday, despite an emotional and intense lobbying effort by Mr. Grace and others to have it overturned.
"We hoped Grace would do that, but I didn't think they would," Mr. Biggs said. "We didn't really know quite where their board was going to come out."
The circumstances surrounding TIAA-CREF's role in spearheading the attack on W. R. Grace were fairly unique, but the fund has made plain that it intends to take a more active and, if need be, more public stance advocating shareholder rights.
Although Mr. Biggs said the fund had been an "active player" in corporate governance for 15 years, a decision was made two years ago to rachet that activism up a notch. And with $61 billion of its $135.7 billion in assets invested in equities, TIAA-CREF has more than enough muscle to make its own case. Unlike most pension funds, all of CREF's assets are internally managed. But roughly three-quarters of its stock portfolio is in indexed funds.
And, as Mr. Monks suggested, good citizenship was not necessarily the primary factor motivating CREF to make the change. Rather, it has sharpened its focus on companies it invests in as a way of making more money for its participants.
The first indication of TIAA-CREF's new vigor came with the publication in 1993 of a Policy Statement on Corporate Governance that was mailed to each of the 1,600 companies that CREF, the College Retirement Equities Fund, invests in.
The next year was spent seeing which companies were paying attention. In preparation for the 1995 proxy season, last year the fund filed 26 resolutions at various companies, an increase from the 10 to 20 that Mr. Biggs said had been the norm.
And last month, as the battle with Grace was reaching its zenith, TIAA-CREF tapped Mr. West from Harris Bankcorp for the corporate governance job.
Mr. West will be taking a close look at the corporate governance practices at the 30 or so companies in which the fund has a stake of $100 million or more. The scrutiny will probably expand to another 200 to 300 in 1996, Mr. Biggs said, "and then we will see what the payoff is."
"Big state pension plans are not paying any attention to the companies below the most visible New York Stock Exchange-listed firms," he said. "We are the only ones who are going to be doing it."
To Mr. Biggs, the odds are good that the new effort will more than justify an annual budget of $1 million.
TIAA-CREF prefers to discuss its differences with individual companies privately first, a practice Mr. Biggs said would continue. Over the course of the last few months, quiet diplomacy with companies has led the fund to withdraw 15 of the 26 proxies it submitted for consideration at annual meetings this year.
Companies that resist will be fought, even ones that TIAA-CREF acknowledges have been star performers.
"I don't think everybody is going to be delighted to have us come in and talk with them," Mr. Biggs said. "But I would say we are coming to them in good faith, that they can believe we are going to be fair, and won't go to the press."
Samuel Siegel, vice chairman of Nucor, is one executive who was less than delighted to hear from Mr. Biggs's fund.
"Nucor is a company that has had spectacularly good investment results, and we are very happy with it," Mr. Biggs said. "But it has a tiny board all of whom, in effect, are insiders. If they had some independent people come on the board they would have a safeguard they do not now have."
Such advice is a novelty at Nucor, which had never received a shareholder resolution until it got one from TIAA-CREF.
Mr. Siegel, a board member since 1968, does not see eye to eye with Mr. Biggs.
"If we were to do what CREF wants, we would either have to fire existing board members or make the board larger," he said. "We don't think either of those things are in the best interest of the company."
By keeping the board small, Mr. Siegel added, "we are saving our shareholders hundreds of thousands a year." The issue comes to a vote on May 11.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John H. Biggs, TIAA-CREF's chairman and chief executive, left, and B. Kenneth West, the pension fund's senior consultant for corporate governance. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRACE, W R, & CO; TIAA-CREF W R GRACE & CO (92%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (84%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (60%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRACE, W R, & CO; TIAA-CREF CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS SHAREHOLDERS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (88%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); BUDGETS (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N J PETER GRACE JR (93%); JOHN H BIGGS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



234 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
In a bottom-line economy, will temporary staffs be permanent?

BYLINE: By Robert Hurtado 

 BODY:
TEMPORARY staffing companies like the Olsten Corporation have attracted more interest from some investors as American companies continue to try to cut costs by substituting part-time workers for permanent ones.
In fact, Olsten's stock has risen more than 12 percent since March 20, closing Friday at $35.50. But the stock has been volatile this year, trading between $31.125 and $38.875. 
 The recent run-up has not made Olsten too expensive for F. Thomas O'Halloran, an analyst at Dillon, Read. "I still think it will outperform the market this year," he said, adding that he saw no special reason for the price spurt.
Major companies in the temporary-staffing business include Manpower Inc. and Kelly Services. But Olsten's revenue mix is considered more balanced by some analysts because a large part of its business is in health care. About 47 percent of its total 1994 revenue of $2.3 billion was derived from supplying nurses and other health care workers and the remaining 53 percent from placing people in office jobs.
The company ranks third in the nation, behind Kelly and Manpower, in supplying temporary workers, a field that has expanded rapidly because of business trends in recent years.
"Companies have come to rely on flexible labor pools that can quickly be adjusted to stay in sync with the rise and fall of business demand," said Stephen L. Handley, an analyst with Smith Barney. "Just-in-time labor will continue to be a growth industry through the 1990's, making Olsten a stock that will do well this year and beyond." Mr. Handley thinks the stock will reach $45 to $48 in the next 12 months.
Olsten principally caters to Fortune 500 companies, providing a wide range of office skills, including accounting, legal and computer services. The company, which has 600 offices in the United States, Britain, Canada and Mexico, placed more than 500,000 employees and increased sales by 24 percent in 1994.
Olsten has gained long-term accounts in part with a system that requires the placement of its own managers at client companies to oversee the use of the temporary workers. It has about 150 of these partnership arrangements, which now account for about 20 percent of its staffing-services business and include companies like Lotus Development, Nike, TRW and General Electric.
Staffing services has been a cyclical business, dependent on a growing economy. But some analysts say that the redesign of many companies may make temporary workers a permanent fixture; suppliers like Olsten, they say, will be able to weather future recessions much more easily than in the past.
But others are not sure. "The fortunes of temporary staffing companies will always be tied somewhat to an expanding economy," said Judith G. Scott, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. "However, the deep-seated structural changes in the workplace provide an impetus for growth throughout the business cycle."
Olsten's insurance for a softening economy is in health care staffing, primarily the use of temporary nurses in people's homes. As a result of its 1993 acquisition of the Lifetime Corporation, Olsten dominates home-care staffing, about double the size of its nearest competitor, Interim Systems.
Government contract reimbursement covered 60 percent of Olsten's health care billings, with Medicare accounting for nearly half of that.
To reduce its reliance on government contracts, Olsten has been diversifying its health care business. For example, it is providing management services to hospital-based home health groups like the Columbia/HCA Corporation.
Last year, Olsten had a proft of $1.61 a share, in contrast to a loss of 67 cents in 1993 resulting from expenses related to the acquisition of Lifetime. William Sutherland, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia, estimates that Olsten will make about $2.05 a share in 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (92%); KELYB (NASDAQ) (90%); KELYA (NASDAQ) (90%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OLSTEN CORP MANPOWERGROUP (92%); OLSTEN CORP (91%); KELLY SERVICES INC (90%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLSTEN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RANKINGS (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



235 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
The Price Is Right as Talent-Hungry Clubs Snap Up Free Agents Cheap

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 9

 BODY:
Starting last summer, they fought over a salary cap or some other system (S.O.S.) that would let baseball club owners regain control of player salaries. One mammoth strike later, the owners didn't get what they wanted, but they have what they wanted.
In two days of frenzied contract signing, operating without any imposed or negotiated constraints, clubs clearly showed they are capable of exercising self-control without the aid of an artificial control. The most stunning example of their efforts can be seen in the drastic pay cuts 17 free agents accepted in signing Friday and Saturday. 
 Last season those players, who include two former most valuable players, two Cy Young award winners and four players who have pitched no-hitters (one a perfect game), had salaries totaling $54.4 million. Their salaries for the 1995 season total $16.5 million.
"I don't think they've ever needed anything except a little more adherence to a budget," Joe Bick, an agent who represents 2 of those 17 players, said today. "It's as simple as that as far as I'm concerned. Like any business, if they set a budget and stick to it, there's plenty of money in the game for everybody."
The owners and other club officials argued that the answer is not that simple, even though some cited their budgets as the reason they offered players reduced salaries.
They pointed out the unusual circumstances that now exist -- the heavy economic losses the clubs suffered during the nearly eight-month strike, the large number of players available as free agents and the desire of players to get jobs before the season starts two weeks from Tuesday night.
Further, they maintain that a salary cap or its payroll-tax relative is needed to keep richer clubs, like the Yankees, Toronto Blue Jays and Atlanta Braves, from collecting the best players and creating superteams, while their poorer brethren struggle with low payrolls and uncompetitive teams.
Even so, people on the players' side were asking today what all the fuss has been about.
"What it's shown me is the strike really wasn't about economic issues, in the sense that the clubs always have been able to control salaries," Jim Bronner, a veteran player agent, said. "They just haven't been able to control their will to control the salaries. The idea that a salary cap or a luxury tax was essential turns out not to be true. The clubs have shown they can control salaries without them. It makes it that much more clear this was a power struggle to reduce the power of the union."
Ever since salaries started escalating with the advent of free agency in 1976, owners have asked the players to help them protect themselves from themselves.
Last Dec. 22, when the owners declared an impasse in negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement and said they were unilaterally implementing a salary cap, Jerry McMorris of the Colorado Rockies, one of the clubs' chief negotiators, was asked why owners can't modify their spending behavior.
"It never has happened," he replied.
McMorris's free-agent signings were the exceptions during the weekend. Although he has become the lead negotiator for the owners in their quest for wage control, he bucked the trend and signed two free agents, outfielder Larry Walker and pitcher Bill Swift, for a total of $35.15 million.
"We have the support," McMorris said at the Rockies' training camp in Tucson, Ariz., referring to the tremendous fan support the team has had in its first two seasons. "Other owners know that, and I'm not worried about that. It wouldn't be fair to our fans, or meet our competitive desires, to sit on our hands."
On that impasse night in December in Washington, McMorris had talked about how the owners are fiercely competitive, saying: "Everybody wants to win. Everybody thinks they're a player away."
But other clubs are obviously trying to resist the temptation of championship dreams. To a large extent, the players who had their salaries slashed are older players, some facing the end of their careers. Still, baseball has never seen anything like it.
The Texas Rangers, seeking a starting pitcher, targeted Bob Tewksbury, and they paid no attention to the $3.5 million salary he had with the St. Louis Cardinals last season.
"It wasn't difficult," Doug Melvin, the Rangers' general manager, said, explaining his plan. "We have a budget. It was a matter of how much money I had left and that was it."
Tewksbury, 34 years old, catapulted himself toward the salary stratosphere with a career-best season in 1992. But a poor second half of the strike-shortened 1994 season left him with little leverage for bargaining this year. Bick had another free-agent pitcher, Terry Mulholland, who had a poor season with the Yankees.
"It wasn't unexpected," Bick said about the pay cuts. "We all pretty much knew going in anybody with an earned run average like Bob's and Terry's were going to pay the price."
Tewksbury took a $2 million pay cut and signed with the Rangers. Mulholland accepted $1.25 million from the San Francisco Giants, a huge drop from his 1994 salary of $3.35 million.
The Florida Marlins, like the Rockies an expansion team in 1993, spent $3.8 million on three free agents who last year had salaries totaling a shade under $11 million. More than half the reduction was in Andre Dawson's salary, which will be $500,000 for his final season.
"We've always been aware of what our budget is," Dave Dombrowski, the Marlins' general manager, said. "Generally, the only thing I can say is right now everybody is in severe financial problems because of the strike so they have been forced to make some moves they probably would rather not have made. Maybe clubs will learn from it."
Bud Selig, the acting commissioner and chief campaigner for payroll constraints of some sort, thinks more than education is needed.
"It cannot be left to go unfettered," he said. "It clearly needs a mechanism to keep the leagues competitive."
Dombrowski said that before anyone draws any conclusions from the recent signing experience, he has to consider the brief signing period created by the strike.
"They're looking for jobs quickly," he said.
Don Baylor, the manager of the improved Rockies, suggested that the length of the strike had an effect on the players' mind-set.
"Guys got shaken," he said. "It really affected some players."
Bronner viewed the circumstances from both perspectives. The clubs, he said, "are not having any trouble now saying we don't have the money; it's not in our budget." The players, he said, "want to play badly enough that they have accepted the lower salaries."
Bronner added: "I haven't heard any players complaining about what's going on. The idea of movement is important to them. If the owners work with this system, they can make it work like they want another system to work. But it doesn't have the artificial restraint they were trying to impose with the other system."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (53%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (53%); UNITED STATES (53%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS); WAGES AND SALARIES BASEBALL (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BUDGETS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); STRIKES (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY JERRY MCMORRIS (71%); JOE BICK (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



236 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Tremors in China

 BODY:
Chinese leaders declare the looming succession to Deng Xiaoping as China's paramount leader a nonevent. Mr. Deng has already retired, they say. His successor, President Jiang Zemin, is already in place, surrounded by a collective leadership team.
Few serious China watchers take these declarations seriously. Judging by their actions, neither do the Chinese leaders who make them. Behind the facade of collective leadership, they are already positioning themselves for an uncertain future. 
 There is not much the United States can do to affect who comes out on top in Beijing. But Washington needs to think now about how American interests might be affected by a troubled succession or the abrupt policy changes it could produce.
Last month's session of China's nominal legislature, the National People's Congress, provided tantalizing signs of political ferment. For years, the congress tamely ratified the policies and appointments submitted by the Government and Communist leadership. This year, more than a third of the delegates broke ranks to vote against a Jiang Zemin nominee for vice premier and almost as many voted against a major banking law.
This show of dissent reflected the efforts of the congress's chairman, Qiao Shi, to pry open China's airless political system. Besides Mr. Qiao, other well-known figures have conspicuously raised their political profiles, as if to remind colleagues that potential alternatives exist should Mr. Jiang falter.
Competing factions also seem to be reviving the Stalinist ploy of targeting corruption investigations to damage rivals. The Beijing political world was startled recently when one probe brought down a close family friend of Deng Xiaoping.
Washington is largely a spectator to these events, but it need not be a helpless one. While doing all it can to keep present relations with China on a smooth course, it needs to respond quickly to signs of personnel and policy change.
The Clinton Administration should resist the entreaties of Jiang Zemin for a Presidential visit in the near future. This would be seen as an endorsement of Mr. Jiang's leadership bid. The Administration should also avoid committing itself to high-level representation at the United Nations women's conference in Beijing this fall. Washington should offer no encouragement to China's crude attempts to restrict participation on political grounds.
No matter who emerges at the top, there is little chance of regression to Mao-style socialism. But while economic reform will continue in name, there could be important variations in content. Washington should continue working to integrate China into the world trading system under equitable rules. Still, as Mexico has taught, it is foolhardy to assume that any "emerging market" will enjoy uninterrupted growth, doubly so when that market is yoked to a rigid, personality-driven political system. The Administration errs when it subordinates other interests, like human rights, to the mirage of boundless commercial opportunities.
China's foreign and military policies could also be affected by succession politics, since military leaders are likely to be key political power brokers in the next few years. With this in mind, Washington needs to assess carefully Beijing's recent burst of belligerence in the disputed waters of the South China Sea. America is not directly involved in the boundary dispute but has an interest in discouraging Beijing from reckless behavior.
It is, of course, possible that the succession to Deng Xiaoping will turn out to be a nonevent. Washington would be foolish to count on it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); WOMEN (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); BANKING LAW (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: DENG XIAOPING HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



237 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Gambling Fever

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: HARPERS FERRY, W.Va.

 BODY:
At the age of 14, I was standing on a landing in the stairwell at Joan of Arc Junior High School in Manhattan, watching a crap game, when I felt the heavy hand of a teacher on my shoulder.
My protest that I didn't even have a bet down was unavailing; four of us, all seniors, were branded as gamblers. The shaming punishment: though permitted to be graduated, I was refused a place at commencement and denied a diploma. 
 That was back when gambling was viewed as wrong; when bookies and numbers racketeers were considered the scum of society; and when a lust for something-for-nothing was looked upon as a weakness of character.
Today, state-sponsored gambling is the national pastime. Nearly 100 million casino visitors, video gamblers and sports bettors wager close to a half-trillion dollars -- with $40 billion going to the "house."
And today, aboriginal Americans are exploiting those of us who followed in neon casinos on their reservations. The tribes are becoming a nation of croupiers, in league with national gambling interests, while pretending ill-gotten profits are used primarily to educate their children.
The "gaming industry" -- none of its pious proponents call it the gambling racket -- is the source of the greatest sustained, bipartisan political hypocrisy of our time.
Liberals, professing a horror of regressive taxation, turn a blind eye to the way state-sponsored gambling redistributes income upward, and how new casino permissions snatch welfare checks to fatten per-share earnings of casino stockholders.
Conservatives, ostensibly upholders of public morality, approve government advertising campaigns to entice citizens to gamble in lotteries and play the ponies at off-track betting parlors.
Gullible voters were sold this notion: since many people liked to gamble anyway, why not turn gambling's profits to public benefit?
But the result is the gambling epidemic, with its associated money laundering by criminals, corruption of public officials and "cannibalization" of local economies. Thanks to the public blessing of gambling by government, the moral stigma was removed and the high roller has become a folk hero.
The media cannot escape their share of the blame. From the hysterical hype of the Publishers Clearing House to the front-page and prime-time publicity given sweepstakes winners (nobody covers the losers), we have glorified the pernicious philosophy of something-for-nothing.
Nothing is for nothing. Crime always goes hand-in-hand with gambling. Here in the relatively poor state of West Virginia, a former governor confessed to taking bribes from racetrack operators and a lottery director was jailed for rigging a video lottery contract. Disgusted, church groups recently leaned on legislators to reject riverboat gambling, and the pols suddenly realized that a pro-casino vote could be a loser.
Now the media are at last awakening. Gee-whiz stories touting the craze are out and hard reporting of the spreading addiction is in.
The Economist cast into doubt the claim that gambling salvages local economies. USA Today headlined: "Nation raising 'a generation of gamblers,' " focusing on the ring corrupting schools in suburban Nutley, N.J. The best reporting was in Sports Illustrated's detailed expose of the gambling addiction rampant in the nation's colleges.
But television news is still gambling's friend. With young gamblers relying heavily on the sports ticker that runs at the bottom of CNN's Headline News, that network has a special responsibility to show how the lives of many students are being ruined by the compulsion its ticker helps feed. A "Gambling is for suckers" crawl among the scores would do for starters.
Will the pols sense the coming voter revulsion at the "painless" revenue source that failed? Representative Frank Wolf of Virginia has introduced a bill to establish a "National Gambling Impact and Policy Commission"; let's see if the casino lobby can buy the votes to avert scrutiny and restigmatizing.
The yen to gamble is a personal weakness, but state-sponsored gambling is a banana-republic abomination that undermines national values. My gratitude goes to that tough teacher at Joan of Arc who stopped me before I started.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PUBLISHERS CLEARING HOUSE (52%); ARC JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARC JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; MONEY LAUNDERING; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GAMING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); CASINOS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); LOTTERIES (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); SWEEPSTAKES (69%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); BRIBERY (66%); POLITICS (65%); ETHICS (64%); RELIGION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



238 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Mysteries, of Course, But Ruth Rendell Also Sees Real Evil

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 9

 BODY:
On the occasion last fall of Ruth Rendell's 30th anniversary as a mystery writer, her British publisher, Random House UK, gave a party to show its appreciation for her work (and for all the money she has brought in over the years). The house also presented Mrs. Rendell with the bookends of her productive career so far: special-edition copies of her first novel, "From Doon With Death" (1964), and her latest one, "Simisola" (1994).
The first marks the debut of her Chief Inspector Reginald Wexford of the town of Kingsmarkham, in the case of a strangely dull murder victim with one intriguing, and fatal, secret. And the latest catches up with him, after many years, investigating the disappearance of a young black woman in a Kingsmarkham racked by unemployment, racism and hopelessness. 
 In her typically forthright way, Mrs. Rendell, 64, said recently during an interview in her London apartment near Regent's Park that she had included an especially large dose of social realism, a familiar element for her, because the Wexford series was "beginning to get into the doldrums."
She continued: "I thought I would really try to examine unemployment and racism in this country, and try and give a picture of what life is like in a place like Kingsmarkham today. It's gotten very bad: the great gulf in England between the rich and the poor, unemployment, violence and the huge incidence of stealing and general dishonesty."
Mrs. Rendell, a slender woman with a rather severe face that is entirely transformed by her smile, has never been one to shy from unglamorous themes. Her books often feature uncannily sympathetic portraits of troubled characters hovering one way or another on the margins of society. Many of them suffer from delusional romantic obsession, a sense of injustice or a single misstep that spirals out of control. Some are simply ordinary people driven to extremes. One book, "Judgment in Stone," begins this way: "Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write."
"Simisola," which came out in the fall in Britain, isn't scheduled for publication in the United States until next fall, so American Rendell fans will have to make do with her other recent book, "No Night Is Too Long" (Harmony). Written under Mrs. Rendell's pseudonym, Barbara Vine, the book is about a young man who gets away with murder -- or maybe not.
Mrs. Rendell always seems to have a book coming out. So far, there have been 16 Wexfords, 16 other Rendell mysteries, 5 short-story collections and 7 Barbara Vine novels. And although she has said that writing for her is a rather neurotic business, a kind of perpetual self-analysis, she sometimes produces two books a year, one per identity. "I'm not saying I like it all or I like it all the time," she said, "but I do like it, you know."
Under either name, Mrs. Rendell is extraordinarily acclaimed, having amassed fistfuls of awards, including Edgars from the Mystery Writers' Association in the United States and gold, silver and diamond daggers from the Crime Writers' Association in England. Though her books regularly make best-seller lists in Britain, they sell modestly in the United States: usually between 10,000 and 30,000 copies each. Her appeal, her publishers say, is growing with each book, but not in Grish-am-size quantities.
Her books have also found their way to American television, in an Inspector Wexford series on the Arts & Entertainment network and in a dramatic adaption of "A Dark-Adapted Eye," which was shown during the winter on PBS. In the latter, a woman retraces the bizarre murder committed by her aunt, hanged for her crime a generation earlier; in a particularly creepy touch, the reader isn't sure until the end who the victim was.
The Vine books are generally billed as "novels of psychological suspense," and they are different from the Rendell books: "softer, and more feminine," the author says. She took on her pseudonym about a decade ago, with the idea for "A Dark-Adapted Eye" swimming relentlessly in her head, along with a persistent feeling that it was not the kind of book she was used to writing. The new name -- "Barbara" is her middle name; "Vine" her great-grandmother's maiden name -- freed her, she said, from her usual self.
"It's more than another name; it's another identity. Once I was Barbara Vine, I could do something else."
Mrs. Rendell rejects the classic mystery in which the suspects are corralled by a Poirot-like detective, who spins a dazzling narrative ("But you, Mademoiselle, knew he would be out that afternoon, because he never took tea on weekends!") before dramatically unmasking the unlikely killer. And although she admires the books of her great friend P. D. James, she has little patience with some of the mystery genre's best sellers.
"I don't like Agatha Christie," Mrs. Rendell said. "She wrote very badly, her characters are not real, and they are repeated over and over, although I will acknowledge that she has the most wonderful ideas. I used to read Dorothy L. Sayers, but now I find her snobbery and her racism distasteful."
Writers like Sayers have been accused, perhaps unfairly, of creating male detectives as idealizations of their own romantic fantasies, but Mrs. Rendell said she was not the least in love with Chief Inspector Wexford. Sometimes she even gets a little sick of him, she said, and has to quell the impulse to kill him off: "It comes and goes, you know."
But that hasn't stopped readers from writing to declare their own love for Wexford, occasionally asking the author to dispatch his wife, Dora, so they can take her place. Mrs. Rendell, who has no secretary but always writes back, usually replies that Inspector Wexford is happily married.
So is his creator, although she and her husband, Don, were divorced in 1975, after 20 years of marriage. They remarried two years later, this time for good, and Mrs. Rendell does not want to go into the details. "We wished to be divorced, very much," she said. "But I think we really did not know anybody else that we would have settled down with happily." She speaks frequently to their grown son, a social worker in Colorado, but suspects that the warm relationships in her family are the exception, not the rule.
"Of course, my family isn't very big, is it?" she said. "I'm inclined to think that most families don't work out, and that most trouble does begin in families."
Mrs. Rendell, who says she is far more interested in murderers' motives than in their methods, does seem almost disappointingly normal for someone with such an understanding of the odd and the skewed. But it all makes sense to her.
"I don't think I could say that I don't know myself," she said. "We all have feelings of obsession or compulsion. I know why I do things. I think some of the reasons are quite strange, but I would look at them and examine them, and ask myself why I did that. I don't have fantasies and I don't have daydreams. How can I? I put them all in my writing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The novelist Ruth Rendell, creator of Chief Inspector Reginald Wexford. (Jane Bown)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); RACE & RACISM (73%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH; RENDELL, RUTH RUTH RENDELL (96%); BARBARA VINE (81%); REGINALD WEXFORD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



239 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Fujimori Is Well Ahead in an Election Exit Poll in Peru

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 9

 BODY:
President Alberto K. Fujimori appeared poised to win a second term in Peru's elections today, according to an early and unofficial survey of voters leaving polling places, but rival candidates continued to charge that the voting had been compromised by fraud.
A national exit poll by the Apoyo group, Peru's leading polling organization, indicated that Mr. Fujimori had won 61 percent of all votes, thus avoiding a second round of balloting. Final results will not be known until Monday. 
 Mr. Fujimori's closest rival, Javier Perez de Cuellar, a former Secretary General of the United Nations, had less than half as many votes, with 26 percent, the exit survey indicated. Twelve other candidates split the remainder of the votes.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar and five other candidates said Saturday night in a letter delivered to an observer team of the Organization of American States that they believed the election had been tainted by a ballot fraud scheme uncovered on Thursday in the city of Huanuco, about 150 miles northeast of Lima. Fifteen people were arrested for trying to alter more than 3,000 voting tally sheets in advance of the election,
Mr. Perez de Cuellar said that he had received information that the fraud extended to other cities across the country and that he believed Mr. Fujimori was directly involved because the tally sheets were discovered at the home of a top organizer of Mr. Fujimori's party, Change 90 -- New Majority.
But Peru's National Election Board said Saturday night that the Huanuco fraud was an isolated case and the work of common criminals trying to earn extra money.
"Inexplicably, the National Elections Board has reduced the fraud to a criminal act supposedly meant to favor congressional candidates, exempting the principal beneficiary of the fraud, President Alberto Fujimori, from any responsibility," the rival candidates said in the letter.
Carlos Chipoco, Mr. Perez de Cuellar's campaign manager, said in a television interview this afternoon that the exit polls were just that: "exit polls that have been shown to be wrong before."
Local and international observers said that voting at polling places across Peru was orderly today and that there was no immediate evidence of fraud, although many polling centers opened an hour later than the scheduled 8 A.M.
"Today, we had a quiet process," said Santiago Murray, head of the O.A.S.'s observer team. "All the reports I am getting from the field are normal irregularities that happen on every voting day."
Mr. Murray said the O.A.S. was "very concerned" about the voter fraud case in Huanuco but that the group was convinced the Government had acted quickly and responsibly in investigating it.
More than 100,000 army troops and national police officers were posted at polling places in Lima and other major cities and rural areas to guard against possible fraud and terrorist attacks, but no major incidents were reported.
"At this time, we can say that this has been more or less a clean election with a few minor irregularities in the opening of voting centers, but this we don't feel will affect the outcome," said Orlando Moro, a spokesman for Transparencia, a local good government group.
Opinion polls taken days before the vote showed Mr. Fujimori well ahead, and political analysts attributed his seeming victory to his success in revitalizing Peru's economy and crushing the Shining Path guerrilla insurgency.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar campaigned on a theme of creating new jobs and social programs for the poor but his crusade was eclipsed by Peru's border war with Ecuador in February and tactical mistakes, like starting his campaign too late and failing to establish himself as a viable alternative to Mr. Fujimori.
In San Juan de Lugrigancho, a large shantytown where residents waited in long lines to vote, Juan Rudas, 32, a ceramics worker, said he voted for Mr. Fujimori because of the "peace and economic opportunity he has brought to Peru." Asked if he was concerned about the allegations of voter fraud, Mr. Rudas said: "I don't think Fujimori was involved. It's a local situation that the other candidates are exaggerating to try and win."
In the middle-class Lima neighborhood of Jesus Maria, Maria Rojas, 21, said, "Perez de Cuellar is an excellent man and a great diplomat, but I voted for Fujimori, principally because of the peace he has brought to Peru."
Voting is mandatory in Peru, and failure to do so can lead to a $17 fine, a large sum for a worker who earns the minimum wage of $45 a month.
In the legislative race, the Apoyo exit poll indicated that Mr. Fujimori's Change 90 party had won 46 percent of the 120 congressional seats and Mr. Perez de Cuellar's party, Union for Peru, 16 percent. The remainder went to other parties.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alberto Fujimori, center, celebrated yesterday with First Vice President Ricardo Marquez, left, and Second Vice President Cesar Paredes after an election exit poll showed him well ahead in his quest for a second term. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ARRESTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); ARMIES (63%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES); PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



240 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: DOLLAR PLUNGES AGAINST THE YEN; JAPAN INTERVENES

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, April 10

 BODY:
The dollar crashed to a postwar low in trading this morning and recovered modestly only after the central bank swept in to support it.
After closing in New York trading on Friday at 83.82 yen, the dollar plunged this morning to 80.15 yen, a startling drop of more than 4 percent. In late afternoon trading, the dollar was at 82.90 yen. 
 The dollar was trading at about 82 yen in the early morning. But in a dramatic sequence of events, the Minister of Finance for Japan, Masayoshi Takemura, called for a "fundamental review" of the global exchange rate system, and almost immediately after that, the dollar plunged to 80.15 yen.
The Bank of Japan, the central bank, then intervened in the foreign exchange markets by buying dollars with an equivalent of more than one billion yen. Though it was a small amount, the move came on thin trading and spurred some momentum, and the dollar rose slightly.
Mr. Takamura, Japan's Finance Minister, said, "I want the United States to feel responsible and make a clear stance to defend the dollar," the Reuters news agency reported.
Mr. Takamura is expected to stress the issue when he meets with the United States Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, in Indonesia later this week, at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. The dollar is also likely to be on the agenda when the Group of Seven -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- meet in Washington later this month.
"Everyone was talking about seeing the dollar going down to 80 yen, and if everyone believes it, that can be almost self-fulfilling," said Christopher J. R. Calderwood, senior economist at BZW Securities (Japan) Ltd. "We're seeing something of a speculative bubble in the yen."
In a sign of discontent by the public, two entertainers won the governorship posts in Tokyo and Osaka in elections during the weekend. Economists said it was possible that those results contributed to jitters in the foreign exchange markets today. The Ministry of Finance and Japanese business leaders have been calling for a lowering of the discount rate in Japan to halt the strengthening yen, which makes Japanese exports difficult to sell abroad.
Yet the Bank of Japan has so far resisted these calls, intervening in the market instead to lower the rate at which banks borrow from the central bank. The Japanese Government said it would introduce a fiscal package on April 14, and economists said they expected the package would include various economic measures, including a cut in the discount rate of at least half a percentage point. The stock market immediately reacted to the news. The Nikkei index of 225 issues rose by more than 150 points in midday trading, and closed up 443.59 points, or 2.82 percent, at 16,163.09.
But economists said the Government's plan would not necessarily offer a remedy to the strong yen. Instead, a coordinated effort on the part of Japan, the United States and Germany would be a more effective measure, they said.
Yet, a coordinated effort does not seem likely soon, and so the foreign exchange markets seem to be sending an ultimatum to the Japanese Government to do something. After Germany raised its key interest rate, traders and investors expected Japan to do the same, and its reluctance to act suggests a real weakness, economists say.
"The Government is in such disarray, it's almost anarchy at the moment," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith, senior economist at Morgan Stanley Japan Ltd. "We're at the point where the market has been effective in sending a signal to the Japanese Government that they would like to see some action by the Government."
Japan's official discount rate currently stands at 1.75 percent, and economists said one reason that the Bank of Japan had been reluctant until now to cut the rate was because it wanted to avoid switching economic policy immediately before the elections on the weekend.
The United States appears hesitant to nudge up its key rate, though Mr. Rubin has said several times recently that a weak dollar is not in the national interest. But he has declined to provide an indication of what the Administration might do to help halt the dollar's drop.
"The Clinton Administration has a hidden agenda," said Ms. Sasaki-Smith of Morgan Stanley. "It wants to push Japan policy makers to the corner to come up with a more effective means to stimulate demand."
The dollar has been weak primarily against the yen, the German mark and the Swiss franc. It has not weakened against the currencies of other big trading partners, including Mexico and Canada and other Asian and European countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); OSAKA, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); OSAKA, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; TAKEMURA, MASAYOSHI (MIN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



241 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Lingering Shortage Of Air Controllers Plagues New York

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Fourteen years after most of the nation's air-traffic controllers were dismissed for striking, the office that handles New York's three major airports is still so understaffed that controllers work mandatory six-day weeks and officials are drawing up contingency plans to cut flights during the anticipated summer rush.
Federal Aviation Administration officials say they believe the agency will opt to pay even more overtime, rather than resort to what they call a "ground delay program," which would inevitably lead the airlines to cut flights in and out of Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark airports. 
 But they add that more overtime is not a solution to their long-term staffing problems. The controllers have worked mandatory six-day weeks since August, using up three quarters of a $1.5 million overtime budget so far this year.
Last year, in part because of the controller shortage and high traffic levels, the office recorded 50 operational errors, up from 16 the year before. Most of the violations brought planes closer together than the minimum required separation of 1,000 feet in altitude and 3 miles horizontally; some errors caused planes to stray out of the proper airspace. No accidents resulted.
Nationally, the F.A.A. says it has nearly the number of controllers it needs, but in the New York region there has long been a shortage, in part, the controllers union says, because of the high cost of living and the difficulty of the work created by three flight patterns.
Until August, managers handled the shortage by simply not filling all the seats in front of the control consoles. But the increase in errors, two of which were witnessed by a regional administrator on tour, led to a staffing increase of about 15 percent, to 53 controllers during the day and 58 at night.
The office that handles flight control for the New York area, in Westbury, L.I., is the New York Tracon, for Terminal Radar Control. The Tracon covers an area of 140 miles by 150 miles, between Montauk point, Kingston, N.Y., the Delaware River and Trenton, N.J.
It handles planes at La Guardia, Kennedy, Newark, White Plains, Teterboro, Long Island-MacArthur and 44 smaller fields. Local controllers in the airport towers hand off planes to the Tracon, and the Tracon hands them off again to another air traffic post, the New York Center, which is in Ronkonkoma.
On Aug. 22, Arlene B. Feldman, who had recently been appointed as regional administrator, was touring the Tracon, a darkened room about 100 feet by 80 feet, with walls and ceiling of acoustic panels. Just then, a controller inadvertently directed an airplane under his control into the airspace of another controller.
As procedures require, the controller was relieved of his post, said Phil Barbarello, the president of the Tracon chapter of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union formed after President Reagan broke the previous union by dismissing most of its members in the 1981 strike. But with no one else handy, Mr. Barbarello, who was accompanying Ms. Feldman on the tour, took over at the circular green radar screen himself.
Shortly afterward, said Mr. Barbarello, the automatic equipment in the sector he had just taken over sounded a conflict alert alarm, a speaker that beeps a little like the alarm on a truck moving in reverse; a Concorde departing from Kennedy was moving too close to a Piper Cherokee.
Three days later, the center began using overtime to increase staff levels, reducing the practice of combining two geographic sectors for one controller to handle, and adding a second controller to most sectors.
The effect was not only to drive down the error rate, but, according to the union and the center's management, to improve operations at the three airports.
The average time between push-back from the gate and takeoff fell at Newark to 13.5 minutes from 15.1 for the two months beginning Aug. 23 last year compared with the two months beginning June 23, according to data from the Air Transport Association, the trade association of the airlines. At Kennedy, it fell to 14.2 minutes from 18.8 minutes and at La Guardia, to 13.7 minutes from 14.9.
The union, calculating an average aircraft operating cost of $35 a minute, estimates that cutting the delays saved $7.5 million on the ground for the two-month period.
Adding controllers has also sped planes in the air, the union says; with more controllers on duty, they have been able to fill requests by faster planes to overtake slower planes, or to fly more direct routes, both of which require extra instructions between the cockpit and the ground. They have also been able to direct planes to cruising altitude more quickly, allowing faster travel and fuel economy, officials say.
To reduce overtime, the Tracon needs 244 controllers, rather than its present staffing of 195, said a report in January by a special F.A.A. study team. Last month the F.A.A. suggested to the controller's union that all controllers' vacations be canceled this summer. Now, said F.A.A. managers and union officials at the center, they are working instead on a contingency plan to impose the "ground delay program."
The holds, said Michael J. McCormick, the F.A.A.'s assistant air traffic manager at the Tracon, would be "like the ones for major weather events," except that they would be scheduled far in advance and last for weeks. The result would be to "spread demand to the airports over a longer time."
The center would not cut the flights itself, but officials there say that when they impose ground delays, the airlines are certain to cancel 170 to 200 flights that were supposed to stop in New York on their way to other destinations, because those planes must still fly the rest of their trips. The three airports record about 6,000 "operations," or takeoffs plus landings, a day, equalling 3,000 flights.
The plan is to be presented to F.A.A. regional officials today, and to headquarters officials on Friday. At F.A.A. headquarters in Washington, Monte R. Belger, Associate Administrator for Air Traffic Services, said in a telephone interview on Friday that more resources would probably be found, but that it was a stopgap measure.
He said that neither service nor safety would be reduced.
Many controllers say that eight months of mandatory six-day weeks, even at overtime pay of $50 an hour, is more than enough in a high-stress job. Mr. Barbarello, the union president, complained in a letter recently to the Transportation Secretary, Federico F. Pena, that this was a "Band-Aid solution" and that more hiring is needed.
At the Air Transport Association in Washington, John R. Ryan, a vice president, said, "They don't want to be working six-day weeks, and we don't want them working six-day weeks, and we need a long-term solution. What we don't need is a demoralized work force up there."
Air traffic controllers, who are Federal employees and forbidden to strike, had complained of understaffing and job fatigue even before Aug. 3, 1981, when about 13,000 of the nation's 17,000 controllers walked out in a demand for a shorter workweek, as well as better wage and retirement benefits. Two days later, President Reagan dismissed about 11,400 who had failed to return, and later fought efforts to hire any of them back for the F.A.A.
Mr. Belger said that his office had recently approved the hiring of 10 of the controllers dismissed for striking in 1981, five for the Tracon and five for the New York Center. In addition, he said, the F.A.A. had found "8 to 10" controllers around the country who would be willing to move to New York.
The former strikers, who used to work in New York, could be on the job within months after re-hiring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; SHORTAGES; OVERTIME CIVIL AVIATION (93%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AIRPORTS (91%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (91%); OVERTIME (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); AVIONICS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); AIRLINES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (76%); CITIES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); COST OF LIVING (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



242 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Clark Accepts Increased Bid From Ingersoll

BYLINE: By SUSAN ANTILLA 

 BODY:
Less than two weeks after snubbing a hostile bid for $1.34 billion by the Ingersoll-Rand Company, the Clark Equipment Company yielded yesterday and accepted an improved offer of $1.46 billion.
The merger, approved by the boards of both companies, would create an industrial giant with combined sales of nearly $5.5 billion and more than 40,000 employees. 
 "It strikes me as pretty quick, but at the end of the day, I guess Clark recognized that it was a goner," said George Kellner, a partner at Kellner, DiLeo, a New York arbitrage firm that had purchased shares of Clark. "And Ingersoll is probably as good a buyer as any."
The cash merger, at a price of $86 a share for Clark stockholders, represents a slight premium to Friday's closing price of $84.125 for Clark. The initial Ingersoll bid of $75 to $77 a share was made in mid-March, and was rejected by Clark's board.
Clark, based in South Bend, Ind., manufactures construction machinery, forklifts and truck transmissions, among other products. Ingersoll, of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., makes air compressors, vacuum pumps, mining equipment and other industrial machines.
Ingersoll took its bid directly to Clark's shareholders, going public with its offer after the close of trading on March 28, when Clark had closed at $53.125. By the close of trading the following day, Clark shares had soared to $81.25 as investors placed bets that Clark, one way or another, would be forced into a sale at an even higher price.
A $77-a-share tender offer was begun by Ingersoll on April 3. Clark management, in the meantime, communicated with a number of potential suitors, none of whom was apparently able to match the price at which Clark was trading after the news of the Ingersoll offer.
After initially rejecting the offer, Leo J. McKernan, Clark's chief executive, agreed to meet with James E. Perrella, his counterpart at Ingersoll, on Friday evening at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan. By 12:30 P.M. yesterday, the Clark board was meeting at the St. Regis to vote on the proposed merger. Two and a half hours later, the Ingersoll board met in the offices of its law firm, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett.
"It might trade at a slight discount to the deal price Monday," said James Pierce, an analyst at PNC Financial, which owns shares of Clark. After a merger is announced, the stock of the target company often trades slightly below the deal price as takeover speculators bail out, not wishing to tie up their money waiting for the deal to be consummated, he said.
Mr. Kellner added, however, that the outside possibility of another bidder might push the stock up from Friday's close, meaning that Clark could trade in a range of $84.125 to $86. "There is always the chance that someone comes from left field," he said.
Mr. Pierce said, "The odds are not very great for a competing offer." Still, a number of analysts have mentioned Deere & Company as a possible suitor for Clark. Deere's management has said that it is interested in making acquisitions, and the company has $245 million of cash and marketable securities on hand.
Ingersoll could have bid as high as $95 a share without having diluted its earnings, said Tobias M. Levkovich, an analyst at Smith Barney. "However -- and there is a big however here -- there is a concern that if you pay a fairly full price, you might be doing that at the peak of the economic cycle," he said.
Mr. Levkovich said that given the uncertainties of the economy, $86 a share "seems reasonable -- they're not paying top dollar at the top of the cycle."
Economists are divided as to whether heavy industry will enjoy a soft landing from the economic recovery, a benign downturn or a recession. The last possibility would mean that Ingersoll had purchased Clark at the worst possible point in the economic cycle.
Clark's chief executive, Leo J. McKernan, in a statement yesterday, said the merger "delivers fair value to our shareholders and also provides our employees with excellent opportunities within the framework of a fine company like Ingersoll-Rand."
A person close to the deal said that it was "unresolved whether McKernan would continue in an active role or not, but that it was Ingersoll's intention to hold on to "the operating management" of Clark. Later this week, Clark is expected to file documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission that will, among other things, outline the severance agreements of top executives who will not be remaining at Clark.
Asked whether jobs would be lost in the merger, this person replied, "Their businesses are great; their management seems great, but their headquarters may be superfluous."
Joanne Tremulis, a spokeswoman for Clark at the Chicago office of the public relations firm of Burson Marsteller, said Clark's management team was on the way back from New York to South Bend and could not be reached for comment.
But any bidder emerging at this point would have to take on an additional nuisance cost. Under the terms of the deal, Ingersoll would be paid a $35 million breakup fee by Clark in the event that the merger did not take place, said Robert Friedman, the Simpson Thacher law partner in charge of the transaction from Ingersoll's side. With 17 million shares outstanding, that would cost a new bidder $2 a share from Clark's coffers to complete the deal. And, of course, another bidder would have to better the price that Ingersoll is willing to pay.
The shares of Ingersoll-Rand closed Friday at $33.125, down 25 cents, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James E. Perrella (Ingersoll-Rand) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IR (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (91%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CLARK EQUIPMENT CO; INGERSOLL-RAND CO INGERSOLL-RAND PLC (91%); CLARK EQUIPMENT CO (91%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLARK EQUIPMENT CO; INGERSOLL-RAND CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TENDER OFFERS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

PERSON: ANTILLA, SUSAN LEO J MCKERNAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



243 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: California's Democrats Avert Split Over Affirmative Action

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: ACRAMENTO, Calif., April 9

 BODY:
With President Clinton leading the way, the Democratic Party of California managed to avoid a public split here this weekend over what to do about affirmative action.
It adopted a "yes, but . . . " approach to the issue, vowing to hold the line on special economic and education programs, yet pointedly stating that affirmative action "does not mean quotas or arbitrary preferential treatment." 
 But while that approach kept the peace here in Sacramento this weekend, the affirmative-action issue will almost surely rise to bedevil the party -- and Mr. Clinton -- on another day, maybe every day until Election Day 1996.
California is the birthplace of the movement to ban affirmative action by putting it to a public vote. Polls indicate about two of every three Californians favor such a ban, including a majority of Democrats.
California also happens to be the "must-carry" state in Presidential politics. And the odds are, at least at this point, that both Mr. Clinton and affirmative action will be on the 1996 California ballot.
So an interesting and probably instructive political exercise unfolded when Mr. Clinton flew here for a Saturday address to the annual convention of the California Democratic Party and, not incidentally, to kick off his campaign to win the Golden State in '96.
He did not speak definitively on the affirmative-action issue, which he has his aides studying, but he gave a pretty good indication of where he was headed and a pretty good indication of where he would like to see California and the rest of the country head.
First, he counseled civil debate. "Don't scream," he told the 2,100 delegates. Then he put in a plug for "angry white males" -- his words -- saying with surprising frankness that this was a "psychologically difficult time" for them. And finally, he laid out his vision of what the affirmative-action debate should cover.
"We don't have to retreat from these affirmative-action programs that have done great things for the American people," he said. "But we do have to ask ourselves: Are they working? Are they fair? Has there been any kind of reverse discrimination?"
The conventioneers, mostly representing the more liberal and active spectrum of the party, found this approach reasonable enough and erupted in applause.
Among top party leaders, only Willie L. Brown Jr., the powerful black Assembly Speaker, was openly critical.
"Disappointed, absolutely," he said.
But then Mr. Brown, ever politic and civil, called the President "principled." And this morning, after less than 15 minutes of civil debate, the convention unanimously passed a resolution that condemned efforts to ban affirmative action but -- to use Mr. Clinton's mollifying conjunctive -- also gave a nod to angry white males.
Affirmative action, the resolution's lead clause prominently stated, "does not mean quotas or arbitrary preferential treatment."
Imola Henry, a black Los Angeles teacher who wrote much of the resolution, said it was a "reflect-but-don't-retreat" approach to affirmative action.
Will the rest of the party find it reasonable enough and buy it? Will it work as a national approach? And what about the Republicans?
One veteran Democratic consultant here, Ron Gray, called it "a tough sell to voters, even to Democratic voters."
As for Republicans, even before Mr. Clinton arrived in Sacramento, they were spoiling for an affirmative-action fight.
The state's Republican Governor, Pete Wilson, is an all-but-announced Presidential candidate and an all-out opponent of affirmative action. Last fall, he adroitly rode Proposition 187, the hotly disputed immigration-control ballot initiative, to a re-election victory that once seemed all but impossible. Now he sees the affirmative-action issue in a similar political light, a way to drive a wedge straight into the ideological heart of the traditional Democratic coalition, not just in California but all over the nation.
Pointedly, just as Air Force One was landing here on Friday, Mr. Wilson's office announced that he planned to abolish all state boards and panels that monitor and promote affirmative action.
Bill Press, the California party chairman, immediately tried to head off what would be the next day's lead headline in The Sacramento Bee: "Demos, Wilson Square Off in Affirmative Action Fight."
"This convention is not about affirmative action," he declared. "This convention is about Bill Clinton."
As it turned out, it was about both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (55%); GOLDEN STATE IRRIGATION SERVICES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SACRAMENTO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; QUOTAS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



244 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Conventions

 BODY:
Unlike New York City's tourism industry, which has turned around as the city inched out of the recession, the convention business has yet to bounce back. The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, the premier site for large shows, has been trying for years to reverse a decline in attendance; the number of events dropped by a third from 1989 to 1993. And in 1994, the center saw increases in shows and attendance. Center officials say they are finally beginning to crack the stubborn issues that have hobbled the hall since it opened: high costs, tough union rules, mob intrusion and thefts. And now, with the improved economy, officials expect to see the city's convention business follow the upswing of the tourism industry.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Conventions" shows conventions and attendance at the Javits Center and in New York City as a whole from 1990 to 1994 and cities with the most trade showing around the nation. (Sources: New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, SMG Facility Management)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) JACOB K JAVITS CONVENTION CENTER (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) JACOB K JAVITS CONVENTION CENTER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TOURISM (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); TRADE SHOWS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995



245 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Dollar Plunges Again; Bank of Japan Intervenes
 The dollar crashed to a postwar low in trading this morning, falling more than 4 percent to 80.15 yen before the Bank of Japan swept in to support it. 
 Japan's Finance Minister, Masayoshia Takemura, said Washington needed to act more decisively to support the dollar and said he would press Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin when they met in Indonesia later this week. Page A1.
 
Deal Struck on MCA, But Questions Abound
 Seagram and Matsushita announced the precise terms of the sale of MCA: Seagram will pay $5.7 billion for 80 percent of the entertainment company, which includes Universal Pictures, MCA and Geffen Records. Now the questions are who will run MCA, and what will Seagram do with its 15 percent stake in Time Warner. Seagram is also getting into one of the fastest-growing businesses in entertainment, music. A1 and D8.
 
An Air-Controller Shortage
 The shortage of air traffic controllers in the New York area is so severe that a mandatory six-day week has been instituted. Local officials say flights into the area might have to be reduced during the summer, but F.A.A. officials say it is more likely that the agency will provide more money for overtime to avoid a "ground delay program." Nationally, the F.A.A. says, it has nearly the number of controllers it needs, but in the New York region there has long been a shortage. A1.

Restraint From Baseball Owners
 In two days of contract signing, without imposed or negotiated constraints, clubs showed that they were capable of exercising self-control. A stunning example of their efforts can be seen in the drastic pay cuts they required of 17 free agents who signed over the weekend. Since salaries started escalating with free agency in 1976, owners have asked the players to help them protect themselves from themselves. C6.
 
Uncertainties for Chinese Peasants
 Many of China's peasants are better off than 5 or 10 years ago, but their margin of economic safety remains perilously thin. Soaring farm costs and land policies that could take away their livelihood overnight have done little to add stability in the countryside. A4.

Smoking Rules for Restaurants
 New York City restaurants are scrambling to comply with smoking regulations that take effect today. Some restaurateurs say they worry about the impact the regulations will have on business. Under the new law, smoking will be permitted at the bar of a restaurant if the dining tables are at least six feet away or if the bar area is separated from the dining area by a floor-to-ceiling partition. B1.

Apple Clones On the Way
 Having licensed the Macintosh operating system, Apple Computer is about to face the consequences as the first Mac clones come to market. Some industry analysts have called the strategy Apple's only hope for increasing its 11 percent share of the personal computer market and for mounting a credible challenge to Compaq, Packard-Bell and other computer makers. Laurie Flynn: Executive Computer. D7.

Software to Listen By
 Progressive Networks is expected to introduce Real Audio Player today. The groundbreaking software program lets World Wide Web browsers choose audio clips from a menu and begin listening to them immediately. D6.
 
Hoping for a Home Run
 Using new motion-capture technology to record body movements and an image scanner to record facial expressions, Acclaim Entertainment says its baseball video game, starring Frank Thomas, will provide the most realistic action of any video game. D6.
 
'Open Skies' Talks Resume
 The United States and Britain resume long-running negotiations on ending restrictions on airline services between the two countries. D2.
 
Change at Good Housekeeping
 Dropping its "new traditionalist" advertising campaign, Good Housekeeping will ask people to pay more attention to its editorial content. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. D10.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TODAY"
 
Dow Jones & Co.
 
First-quarter earnings due today.
Expected: 47 cents a share.
 
Graph: "LAST WEEK"<,03,25,15,10> Dow industrials 4,192.62 34.93 30-yr. Treasury yield 7.39% 0.04 The dollar 83.82 yen 2.73

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); APPLE INC (81%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CURRENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); SMOKING (84%); US DOLLAR (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); WORK WEEK (72%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (72%); OVERTIME (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (69%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); BASEBALL (64%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



246 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Carol Bellamy Is Appointed Unicef's Head

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 10

 BODY:
Carol Bellamy, the director of the Peace Corps and a former New York City Council President, has been named executive director of Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations announced today.
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali selected Ms. Bellamy over several European candidates, including Elizabeth Rehm, the former Defense Minister of Finland. Anne-Marie Lizin, a Belgian politician, was also nominated by the European Union. 
 The job has been held by an American since the agency was founded in 1946. The United States contributes about 25 percent of the budget for Unicef, which provides aid for children worldwide in education and other areas of child development.
The United States originally backed William H. Foege, a physician and the former director of the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, to replace James Grant, the previous Unicef executive director, who died on Jan. 28.
But the United States offered new candidates, including four women, after Mr. Boutros-Ghali made it clear that he wanted to appoint a woman to the position. He has been under pressure to increase the number of women in management roles at the United Nations.
The European Union had lobbied strongly for the post, led by France. It argued that the 15-nation group collectively donated more money to Unicef than did the United States. Although two of the European Union's candidates were women, Britain continued to support Rochard Jolly, the British deputy director of Unicef who has been serving as acting executive director, for the position.
Ms. Bellamy spent five years in the New York State Senate in the early 1970's and in 1976 became the first woman to be president of the New York City Council, a position she held until 1985.
She was defeated in a close race for state Comptroller in 1990 by Edward V. Regan, and then lost out to H. Carl McCall for an appointment to the position following Mr. Regan's resignation. She also lost a primary race for the United States Senate in 1992.
She was appointed director of the Peace Corps in 1993 by President Clinton. For two years, beginning in 1963, she had been a volunteer in Guatemala for the Peace Corps, which sends volunteers to more than 90 countries.
Before being appointed Peace Corps director, she worked at a Wall Street investment firm.
As executive Director of Unicef, Mr. Grant was credited with saving millions of young lives by promoting simple, low-cost methods to prevent the spread of disease and to treat debilitating conditions like diarrhea.
Unicef is facing a series of problems however, including a corruption scandal in its headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya. It also has had unfavorable management reviews and audits, including criticism of a practice of paying salary supplements for officials in some countries in which the program operates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); KENYA (92%); BELGIUM (88%); FINLAND (88%); GUATEMALA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (UNICEF) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); PEACE CORPS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (UNICEF) UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); PEACE CORPS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); KENYA (92%); BELGIUM (88%); FINLAND (88%); GUATEMALA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); APPOINTMENTS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); WOMEN (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN); BELLAMY, CAROL BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



247 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dollar Recovers as Officials Argue Over Responsibility
The dollar recovered to 84.02 yen in New York after one of its most sharp declines in modern times earlier in the day, falling 4 percent to 80.15 yen. The drop intensified a bitter round of finger-pointing by America's main economic rivals about who bears the responsibility for fixing the problem. 
 American officials and their counterparts abroad debated whether to intervene, but apart from Japan's central bank, they did not act. Still, traders became fearful of losing billions if they were caught short, and they began a buying spree that brought the dollar back somewhat. A1.
 
CBS Earnings Lower Than Expected
CBS reported after the stock market closed that first-quarter earnings were half what Wall Street expected, falling to $21.9 million, or 32 cents a share. D11.
 
Earnings Up for Chip Makers
Motorola's earnings rose nearly 25 percent in the first quarter, and Advanced Micro Devices, another leading maker of semiconductors, said that strong demand for its chips helped net income rise 14 percent. D5.
The Dow Jones industrials rose 5 points, to 4,198.15, with technology stocks gaining on the expectation of a surge in earnings at Motorola, which reported after the market closed. D12.
Frontier to Acquire ALC
 
Frontier has agreed to buy ALC Communications in a stock swap valued at about $1.8 billion, which would create the fifth-largest long-distance company. D2.
 
U S West to Issue Cable Stock
U S West will issue a new class of stock for its cable and wireless businesses, setting the stage for a series of possible changes in the ownership structure of Time Warner. D2.
 
Goodyear Names President
Goodyear named Samir Gibara president and chief operating officer, putting him in line to succeed Stanley Gault as chief executive. D9.
 
Putting DNA to Work
Some researchers are planning systems that would use DNA to do computations that would in some cases thwart even the fastest supercomputers. C1.
 
S.E.C. Addresses Broker Ethics
In an attempt to address concern about broker ethics, the S.E.C. is recommending that brokerage firms pay identical commissions for both proprietary and nonproprietary products and avoid sales contests. D6.
 
Shopping in Cyberspace Gets Closer
The three largest consumer on-line information systems and two major Internet software companies have agreed on a common technical standard for conducting secure transactions on the Internet. D5.
Copyright Law Ignored in Russia
Copyright laws are brazenly flouted in Russia, and there is almost no film, compact disk or software that cannot be found for a fraction of what it costs in the United States. A3.
 
Coke Recalls Famous Blunder
Coca-Cola held an unprecedented meeting with employees to mark the 10th anniversary of its decision to replace its 99-year-old soft-drink formula with a sweeter "new Coke." The company's top executives faced a crowd of 600 employees and answered questions about its famous gaffe. D4.
Plan Could Affect Fabled Center
A proposal to amend the charter of Rockefeller Center Properties would clear the way for Goldman, Sachs and its Whitehall Street Real Estate Fund to buy a 19.9 percent stake in the trust. Market Place. D12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 4,198.15 up 5.53
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.39% unchanged
The Dollar -- 84.02 up 0.20
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows producer prices from Sept. 1994 to Feb. 1995 and stock prices for international paper for the last four quarters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTRONICS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); ETHICS (86%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); COPYRIGHT LAW (65%); COPYRIGHT (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); DNA (62%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



248 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
AS DOLLAR FALLS, ECONOMIC POWERS BLAME EACH OTHER

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10

 BODY:
The dollar recovered today from a terrifying ride, and the market gyrations intensified a bitter round of finger-pointing by the United States' main economic rivals about who bears responsibility for fixing a problem that threatens to reshape financial relationships around the world.
The dollar, which had plunged in Tokyo this morning to a postwar low of 80.15 yen, rebounded to settle at 84.02 yen in New York trading late in the day, up from 83.82 yen Friday. 
Government officials and traders alike said it was unclear whether the rebound marked the end of a three-month-long concerted attack by speculators, or was just a lull in a longer decline.
Either way, the gyrations have exposed a wide rift among leaders of the world's three most powerful economies -- the United States, Japan and Germany -- concerning both the causes and the solution of the dollar's decline at a time the American economy looks healthier than it has in years.
Last week, Germany's Finance Minister said his country and other Western nations could not make up for "national deficiencies," an allusion to Washington's huge budget and trade deficits.
Today, the criticism came from Japan's Finance Minister, Masayoshi Takemura, who told Parliament in Tokyo, "I want the United States to feel responsible and make a clear stance to defend the dollar."
Mr. Takemura then rattled the markets further, questioning whether the system of free-floating exchange rates, adopted in 1973, should be reconsidered so that governments had greater influence over the value of their currencies.
"We also need to think whether we can leave the current exchange-rate system as it is now," said Mr. Takemura, a politician with no economic experience, who gained his portfolio last year as part of a political compromise that brought the current Japanese Government to power.
As he spoke, the dollar had already begun one of the most precipitous declines in modern times, a selloff that at one point sent it tumbling 4 percent in a few hours and set off alarms at finance ministries around the world.
In a quick round of consultations, American officials and their counterparts abroad debated whether to intervene in the markets again, buying dollars. The Japanese acted, but the rest did not -- perhaps mindful of Washington's experience last week, when it moved to prop up its currency, only to see it overwhelmed by speculators who drove it back down.
This time, only the anticipation of central-bank intervention seemed to be needed. Traders feared losing billions if they were caught out of the markets, and began a buying spree that brought the dollar back to a level just above where it had closed Friday.
Indeed, the dollar advanced against other leading leading currencies today, as well. It made its biggest one-day gain against the German mark since August, rising to 1.41 marks from 1.3779 on Friday.
These market pyrotechnics only underlined the contrast with actions of the big economic allies in the mid-1980's, when world capitals were filled with talk of "coordination" among the economic powers to adjust the exchange values of their currencies. No one uses that word anymore. And in the absence of a united front, the markets are moving according to their own logic and passions.
"There is really nothing called coordination anymore, in any sense," said John Williamson, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "The G-7 has lost whatever abilities it had as an institution," he said, referring in official shorthand to the Group of Seven, some of the world's leading industrial nations. "There is a lot they could do to prevent crises like this if they wanted to, but there seem to be little incentive to do so."
That is certainly true in the United States and Germany. For President Clinton, a 16.4 percent decline in the value of the dollar against the yen in the last three months is worrisome but not a political liability, unless the rising price of imports brings on inflation or unless stock and bond markets in this country begin to suffer. Mr. Clinton has barely mentioned the matter in recent weeks -- he said recently that he could only get into trouble commenting on the markets -- and none of his likely Republican opponents in next year's election has taken up the issue.
Moreover, the President's advisers contend that the dollar has not declined against most world currencies, only against the yen and the mark. The decline against the yen has been the more spectacular, and they cite this as evidence that the problem lies in Tokyo and will not be resolved until the Japanese open their markets, allowing a narrowing of a trade deficit that runs $60 billion a year.
While the dollar rose sharply against the mark today, there is no political urgency in Germany to send the dollar higher. Rather, there seems a willingness to absorb some higher unemployment rates -- touched off by German companies that move production elsewhere -- in return for the power that a strong currency gives Germany over its European rivals.
Presumably, the Japanese Government is under great pressure at home to stem the yen's rise. At these levels, few Japanese manufacturers who produce primarily for export, particularly the makers of automobiles and electronics equipment, can eke out a profit; even after squeezing down the profit margins they would accept during the last few years, most are geared to produce goods at roughly 100 yen to the dollar.
As a result, Japanese business has been demanding official action, and Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama has said he will announce an economic-stimulus program by Friday to help small and medium-size companies, in particular. But such programs have been announced in the past and have rarely done much good.
No one in the Japanese Government is seriously talking about stimulating imports -- the one step that would most likely affect the dollar -- because they know that this is a two-edged sword. At times like these, Japanese companies are forced to make their money in the domestic market, where their income is in yen, not in devalued dollars. That, in turn, means that they are more resistant than ever to opening markets to foreign goods, as Washington wants.
Moreover, the trade deficit has been around so long that negotiators could commission a statue in its honor, so evidently other forces are at work. Many economists and officials guess that Japanese are making a worldwide move back to keeping their assets in yen, rather than recycling their trade surpluses back into dollars. For example, as soon as the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company completes its sale of 80 percent of MCA, the movie studio, $5.9 billion that it has kept in Hollywood will return to Japan.
What American officials do not know, and are desperately trying to determine, is whether Japan's powerful Finance Ministry is secretly happy to see the yen at these levels, because it gives the country so much more financial influence elsewhere in Asia.
Nor do they know if Mr. Takemura's comments today calling for greater Government control over exchange rates was his own, off-the-top-of-the-head idea, or whether it marked an effort by the bureaucrats who run his ministry to seize more control for themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; PUBLIC OPINION CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); GERMAN MARK (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); 

PERSON: TAKEMURA, MASAYOSHI (MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



249 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Weighing Goldman, Sachs's role in the Rockefeller Center trust.

BYLINE: By Stephanie Strom 

 BODY:
INVESTORS in Rockefeller Center Properties Inc., a real estate investment trust, might want to think twice about approving a proposed amendment to its charter.
The management of the trust is recommending that shareholders discard a provision of the charter that prohibits any entity from beneficially owning a stake larger than 9.8 percent of the total shares outstanding. 
 That would clear the way for Goldman, Sachs & Company and its $1 billion Whitehall Street Real Estate Fund L.P. to buy a 19.9 percent stake in the trust.
But what management does not say in the proxy outlining the amendment is that by winning the support of just one-tenth of 1 percent more of the trust's shareholders, Goldman could control the destiny of the trust and by extension the destiny of Rockefeller Center, one of the country's most fabled, but fickle, developments.
The Mitsubishi Estate Company owns 80 percent of 12 Art Deco buildings at Rockefeller Center and almost all 12 acres of the prime Manhattan real estate on which they sit. The Rockefeller family owns the other 20 percent.
The trust owns the $1.3 billion mortgage on Rockefeller Center, the terms of which have been nigh impossible to meet as the Manhattan commercial real estate market has crumbled.
Goldman first got into the picture by underwriting the initial public offering of the trust in 1985, which raised the money to make the mortgage on Rockefeller Center. And last December it bailed the trust out of a cash squeeze unrelated to Rockefeller Center, when Goldman bought $150 million of floating-rate notes and Whitehall purchased $75 million of debentures with an interest rate of 14 percent.
But that debt also made Goldman a shareholder in the trust by giving it and its Whitehall affiliate the right, in the form of warrants and stock appreciation rights, to buy a 19.9 percent stake in Rockefeller Center Properties at $5 a share -- or a 75 percent discount to the price that the shares of the trust fetched when Goldman took it public.
Under the Rockefeller Center Properties charter, any large transaction affecting the trust must be approved by at least 80 percent of its shareholders. If the amendment is approved and Goldman buys 19.9 percent of the stock, it will be able to block any significant proposal not to its liking unless virtually every other shareholder -- and there are 60,000 of them -- votes in favor of it.
If, for instance, a buyer like Mitsubishi came along and offered shareholders $9 a share for their holdings, which would enable the buyer to buy back the mortgage at a discount and give shareholders a premium to the $6.625 each share fetched yesterday, Goldman would have the ability to say no and make it stick. And if the trust had an opportunity to refinance the debt that gives Goldman a current return of roughly 20 percent a year , Goldman would at the least have a powerful protest vote. Some shareholders fear that Goldman might be willing to oppose anything that threatened that handsome return. After all, Goldman can cash out of its shares five years from now and still make money, but the trust's regular shareholders would benefit more from an immediate sale.
Richard M. Scarlata, president and chief executive of Rockefeller Center Properties, conceded that the amendment he and management had proposed would give Goldman "a very significant vote."
But he insisted that Goldman could not control the destiny of the trust, "not if the other shareholders vote the other way. Goldman would represent 19.9 percent, while the other shareholders would control 80.1 percent of the vote."
But shareholders might be less comfortable with such slim protection -- one-tenth of 1 percent of the stock of the trust plus one share, or 38,261 shares, from Goldman's domination.
Of course, Goldman could behave otherwise. "When it comes time to negotiate with Mitsubishi and the Rockefeller Group, having Goldman with a 20 percent position and a seat on the board is a big plus," said Fred Carr, principal in the Penobscot Group Inc., which analyzes publicly traded real estate trusts.
"But," he added, "Goldman's interests are not 100 percent parallel with the other shareholders, and there might come a time when they find themselves in a zero-sum relationship."
Mr. Carr and others are worried about Goldman, because they compare the role of the firm in the continuing Rockefeller Center drama to its part in the reorganization of Cadillac Fairview Inc., a bankrupt Canadian property developer. Whitehall owns a big chunk of the Cadillac Fairview senior debt, and in angling to get a hefty return on its investment it has stepped on the toes of some of Goldman's clients who stand behind it in the line of creditors waiting to be repaid.
Those clients, which include the California Public Employees Retirement System, known as Calpers, Fidelity Management and Research, the Trust Company of the West and Mutual Series funds of the investor Michael F. Price contend that Whitehall has pursued its interests at their expense, which is considered the height of bad form in the client-conscious world of investment banking. Calpers and Fidelity have reportedly reduced their business with Goldman in a huff over Whitehall's behavior in the Cadillac case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); 8802 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (69%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (69%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (69%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (69%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (69%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (69%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (69%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (69%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC; GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO; WHITEHALL STREET REAL ESTATE LP ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (69%); WHITEHALL STREET GLOBAL REAL ESTATE LP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC; GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO; WHITEHALL STREET REAL ESTATE LP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (79%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); DEBT NOTES (76%); BONDS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



250 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2352 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Welfare: Deterring New Births -- A special report.;
State Aid Is Capped, but to What Effect?

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J.

 BODY:
At 16, Naikeya Haley decided to have a second child despite the state law that denied her extra welfare benefits because she was already receiving aid.
"It was a planned pregnancy," said Ms. Haley, who is now 17. The law that kept her from collecting $102 more a month "doesn't make any difference to me," she said flatly, other than to make it that much harder to provide for her family. She and her two daughters live on $322 a month, and stay with friends. 
 Almost immediately after limiting new welfare payments in 1993, New Jersey officials began saying that the "family cap" was dramatically reducing the birth rate among welfare mothers. The law served as a model for similar policies in the works in nine other states. And now Republicans in Congress want to copy it, too. A bill that has passed the House and is now before the Senate would prohibit use of Federal money to give extra benefits for new babies born to families on welfare who already have children.
But researchers who have studied the New Jersey experience, and most of the several dozen recipients interviewed for this article, say they are not at all convinced that the state policy keeps women from having babies. Some raised questions about whether the state can -- or indeed should -- regulate complicated sexual and reproductive decisions.
Now, New Jersey welfare officials are themselves backing away from their earlier contentions, saying it may be too soon to prove any effects on childbearing.
"We don't have the numbers" to show a link between the cap and a decreasing birth rate, said William J. Maguire, director of Camden County's Family Development Program, which enforces the cap.
Even those who support the policy are saying that it was never intended to lower the birth rate, but simply to encourage welfare recipients to make more responsible decisions.
The law, which went into effect in August 1993 under former Gov. Jim Florio, was almost immediately pronounced a triumph by New Jersey officials. After only two months, the state released numbers suggesting that births to welfare mothers had already fallen by 16 percent, and officials began congratulating themselves on their overnight success.
But over time, that 16 percent drop dwindled to about 10 percent as the state belatedly became aware of births that had not been reported earlier. It appeared that many mothers saw no reason to report the new births since their welfare benefits were not being increased.
And now even that lower number is being questioned, both because of a continued reporting lag and because some officials argue that the number of women who have more children while on welfare is so small that the important-sounding 10 percent drop may not mean much. Nationally, the average recipient of Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the main Federal welfare program, has 1.9 children.
The Department of Health and Human Services in Washington estimates that under the proposed national policy of denying extra benefits for new children, about one million children would be affected after five years, and ultimately 2.2 million. Currently, about 10 million children receive A.F.D.C. benefits.
In the first year that the cap was in place in New Jersey, the state denied cash benefits to 6,267 children born to existing A.F.D.C. recipients. There are 123,000 families receiving cash benefits in the state, and that number has stayed constant since the cap was put in place.
The numbers suggest that the cap saved the state more than $2 million that year, but state officials said they had not calculated the exact savings, both because they were relatively modest and because saving money was not the goal of the program. Also, the cap had been adopted as part of a broader law that increased spending on job training, child care and economic development, which pushed up the state's overall welfare spending.
Even as the rest of the country seems to be rushing to replicate the New Jersey experiment, most welfare officials here say they have adopted a wait-and-see attitude about the impact.
"We got a little burned with some of the early numbers," said William Waldman, New Jersey's Human Services Commissioner, who says he has mixed feelings about the program. "So we've been reticent to give them out."
 
 
The Concerns
Will More Women Have Abortions?
 In Congress, the cap has become one of the most divisive elements of the proposed legislation because some Republicans who support other get-tough measures in the package fear that this disincentive for childbearing may work all too well, encouraging more poor women to seek abortions.
In fact, it is all but impossible to tell whether the cap is driving up the abortion rate because state statistics are not available for the period after the cap went into effect.
A few New Jersey mothers said they would seriously consider abortion as a result of the law if they got pregnant again while on A.F.D.C.
"If I got pregnant again and they still had that law, I wouldn't" have the baby, said Betzaida Bermudez, 22, who was taking a short break from a computer class in Camden that she hopes will help make her independent.
"I guess I'd just have an abortion," she said, adding that she knows too many women who have had more children under the law but now find themselves unable to provide for them.
But Rudolph Myers, an anthropologist who is the state's project manager for evaluating the cap, said there was no evidence of the kind of decreased birth rate that would signal a marked increase in abortions.
"At first look, it looked like an astronomical drop in birth rates, like natural disaster demographics," Mr. Myers said, but now the numbers have leveled off. "I'm a little uncertain as to what this means. But it's kind of a stretch to imagine this made A.F.D.C. mothers stop conceiving children."
 
 
The Goals
Encouraging Responsibility
 Those who work more directly with welfare recipients seem even more skeptical that the policy has changed behavior. And state officials suggest that the program's goals have always been more symbolic or political than practical.
Of the stated Republican goal of reducing the number of births to unmarried welfare mothers, Mr. Waldman said: "We never set that as a goal of the program. And I wouldn't ever say people have children just to get more money from welfare. But a lot of what we do is very patronizing, and the idea was fundamentally that people should make responsible decisions just like people who are not on welfare."
Frank G. Spencer, a county official whose office in desperately poor Camden has a commanding view of the Philadelphia skyline, explained the policy as a way to extend equal responsibility to families on welfare.
"My employer doesn't give me an increase based on how many children I decide to have," he said. "There's only a picture of one child around here because that's all I can afford to educate."
And Mr. Maguire, of the Camden program, suggested that the family cap was actually a trade-off for conservatives who then went along with other aspects of the state's welfare overhaul, like more support for job training, child care and economic development.
"It was a necessary first step to appease----" he said, then broke off and started again. "It was a first step toward a more conservative mentality."
One true believer in the value of the controversial policy is its creator, Wayne R. Bryant, a New Jersey State Senator. Mr. Bryant, a Democrat, bristles that the law does not, as some critics suggest, tell welfare recipients that they cannot have more children, but simply encourages them to make responsible decisions. And he curtly dismisses the argument that under the policy, children will inevitably be hurt.
"If the kids are suffering because parents are irresponsible" in having children they cannot afford, he said, "they'll still suffer if we give them the money because the parents will still be irresponsible."
A recent convert to the cap is Judi Whitney, deputy director for Camden's program.
"Being a minority myself, I know the strength of poor people has been a strong work ethic," said Ms. Whitney, who is black. "But in our efforts to help, we've taken away from them what had been their inherent strength, which is to believe they can take care of their family."
"Do I think the birth rate is down as a result of the program?" she asked. "I don't know. I think the jury is probably still out. But is giving something always better than nothing?"
"Some parents have tried to keep things afloat on the extra $64," she continued, referring to the amount that recipients once received for any baby beyond a second child; they had received $102 for a second child born while on welfare.
"And that doesn't even provide Pampers and clothes for a new baby," Ms. Whitney added. "Five years ago, I thought, 'Oh my God, this will hurt the child.' Now I definitely don't believe that. If anyone is doing the hurting, I don't think the government is."
 
The Women
'Ground Beef Is Overrated'
 But a number of women like Cloran Davis, who had a fourth child last year while on A.F.D.C., said they nonetheless felt that the law was intrusive and unforgiving.
"They're telling us we can't have children, and I don't think that's right," said Ms. Davis, 26, of River Edge, N.J.
"It wasn't planned, but I wasn't going to abort her," Ms. Davis said. "Sixty-four dollars is not going to change my love for my child, and if I would have aborted her, it wouldn't have comforted my soul. Nobody ever said it was enjoyable to be on welfare. You just learn that a pound of ground beef is overrated."
Ms. Davis has worked at several jobs, including stints as a typist and in the stock room of the shoe department at Macy's, and has been schooled as a chef, but says that the cost of child care is a major problem.
"Far from me to say I'm the most educated person in the world, but we can't just stop and go to work when child care costs $300 a month for just one child, and that was my whole check," she said. State and Congressional leaders, she concluded, "don't know what it's like to have to wonder and struggle."
She added, "I'm not angry at anyone, but they just don't understand."
Other women spoke of some possible effects of the cap that were wholly unintended by lawmakers.
Melinda Thomas, 21, a mother of three, said, "I don't get nothing for my baby" in A.F.D.C. But she said she was not too concerned about losing $64 a month.
"The money just goes to paying bills anyway, so it really doesn't matter," she said. "Now food stamps, that does."
And Jessica Delgado, who has an infant daughter, said she thought welfare workers had tried to pressure her to terminate the pregnancy.
"They were telling me, 'Do you think you need to have another child?' said Ms. Delgado, a mother of two. "They treat you like they own you. But you can't buy my kids. If I have to start stripping, that's what I'll do" to support them.
Most women ridiculed the idea that they would have a child to get $64 a month more in welfare benefits, though many also said they were not so sure that other women were not having babies in the mistaken belief that it would make their lives easier.
But among researchers, there is even less consensus.
June E. O'Neill, the recently appointed director of the Congressional Budget Office, who was hired last year by the New Jersey Attorney General's office to assess the family cap, said the net change in income under the policy was quite modest, because other benefits, like food stamps, still increased along with family size.
Still, in following the cases of 4,500 New Jersey welfare mothers randomly assigned to family cap and control groups, Ms. O'Neill found that those affected by the cap had 20 percent fewer children. And she disputed the premise that many births go unreported for any length of time because she said mothers still had an incentive to collect extra food stamps and other non-cash benefits.
"It's like saying, 'If there's a discount on dresses, will more people buy them?' " she said. "In a birth, there are obviously some differences, but some people will" be affected by the economics of the situation in deciding whether or not to have a child.
"To say people have children without thinking about how to support them is a farfetched notion," Ms. O'Neill said. "Some are totally out of control, but a significant percentage know what they're doing."
Michael Laracy, a senior program associate with the Annie E. Casey Foundation in Baltimore, which studies public policy affecting the poor, and a former New Jersey welfare official, argues that there are so many other factors involved in decisions about sex and children that it is all but impossible to say how big a role economics actually plays in decisions about childbearing -- especially because the financial disincentive is relatively modest.
Mr. Laracy also said that no one had measured the adverse effects of the cap, like how many families had become homeless as a result.
Rutgers University researchers conducting a five-year study for the state of the effect of the cap have warned against drawing premature conclusions about it.
Whatever the researchers may find, some of those who are directly affected by the policy say it mostly translates into unpaid bills, dirty laundry and sacrifices of "extras" like vitamins and school supplies. And if it has only marginally changed their lives, they said, they do not feel it is for the better, at least in the short term.
At Camden Community College, welfare mothers preparing to take their high school equivalency examination were racing each other in working on ratios and doing pie charts.
"To me, they're still having babies whether they get $64 or not," said one of the students, Marilyn Dejesus, 27, who has two children. "It's going to be more hungry people in the streets, that's it."
Crystal Deloatch, 30, who has one daughter, just sighed and kept her eyes on her notebook. "Then they wonder why there are so many bad mothers," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Critics of laws that deny extra aid for new babies say these laws encourage abortions. Jessica Delgardo said welfare workers tried to pressure her to end her second pregnancy, with Alexia Loor. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times) (pg. A1); Melinda Thomas, 21, said she was not worried about losing the extra $64 a month that New Jersey welfare recipients once received for any baby they had after their second. Under a 1993 law, the additional money is no longer available. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. A18)
 
Chart: "RETHINKING WELFARE: Deterring New Births"
 
THE GOAL: To discourage women receiving welfare from having additional children unless they have means of support.
 
THE PROPOSAL: In a bill passed by the House and now before the Senate, Federal money could not be used to increase welfare payments for children born to women already on welfare.
 
CURRENT LAW: In most states, families receive extra payments for each child, though some are experimenting with new limits.
 
STATE EXPERIENCE: In New Jersey, which since 1993 has denied extra benefits for children born to mothers on welfare, the impact on the birth rate is disputed; many researchers say it is too soon to tell whether many pregnancies or births have been deterred. In the first year, the state denied extra benefits for 6,267 children, of a total of 123,000 families receiving Federal aid.
 
SAVINGS: The Federal Government estimates that at the end of five years, one million children would be denied benefits, and ultimately 2.2 million would be. Now, about 10 million children receive Federal aid. The Government has not released estimates of dollar savings whjich may be partly offset by increases inother state of Federal aid programs. Proponents say their main aim is not to save money but to force women to be responsible about childbearing.
 
(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ILLEGITIMACY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ABORTION INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); FAMILY PLANNING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); ABORTION (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



251 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: What to Do With the Coliseum? Giuliani and M.T.A. in Deadlock

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Nine months after the Giuliani administration and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority promised to cooperate in getting the most out of the old New York Coliseum, the two sides remain deadlocked over what to do with one of the most valuable pieces of potential development property in New York City.
At the heart of the stalemate is a basic disagreement. The M.T.A., which owns the site, wants to rent out the building in roughly its current condition and thus quickly begin a flow of cash to the transit system. 
 But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and his aides are holding out for an extensive development plan that they hope would produce more jobs in the long run and that might include rebuilding the site and perhaps reconfiguring what planners see as one of the more jumbled intersections in Manhattan.
There has been no shortage of suitors for the site since a deal with the developer Mortimer B. Zuckerman collapsed last July.
Sears, Roebuck & Company, the giant retailing chain, has expressed interest in leasing the site for its first store in Manhattan, and 11 others responded to an M.T.A. request for formal proposals for the four-story space on a three-year lease. The proposals ranged from a roller skating rink to a movie production studio. One company was willing to pay $7 million a year in rent. But the city and the M.T.A. are at odds over the length of a lease.
At a time when both the city and the transportation authority are going through wrenching budget cuts, critics say the impasse represents a huge waste of money. The building remains virtually empty, with only a few trade shows each year.
"Virtually every week, the city announces a new round of service cuts or discovers yet another gap in its budget," said Ruth Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, who favors a long-term lease of the property. "It is unconscionable to allow this asset to go to waste."
Situated on the southwestern quadrant of Columbus Circle, the Coliseum is considered by many critics to be an uninspired remnant of the 1950's. In the early 1980's, as the Jacob Javits Convention Center was about to open, officials of the Edward I. Koch administration sought proposals for razing the Coliseum and an office building next door and building on the site.
The proposal chosen, a $455 million plan by Mr. Zuckerman to build a huge residential, retail and office complex, became bogged down almost immediately in lawsuits from planners and civic groups. By the early 1990's, after the real estate market collapsed, the plan had been scaled back several times, and it was abandoned last year.
So far, M.T.A. officials say, one of the highest rent offers for the space has come from the Related Companies, a real estate concern that wants to use the Coliseum for retail stores. The company is willing to pay about $10 million a year but only if given a 10- to 15-year lease.
Last month a broker with Garrick-Aug, a Manhattan-based retail leasing company, wrote to the M.T.A. on behalf Sears, saying that the retailer was "extremely interested in 250,000 to 300,000 square feet for a full-fledged department store." The proposal was for a minimum of 20 years at $6.2 million to $9 million a year.
Such undertakings require city approval, and the Giuliani administration has said that a 10-year lease is too confining. Forrest R. Taylor, a spokesman for John S. Dyson, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, said last week that the city "saw no reason to rush into something."
Recalling the Zuckerman project as "a protracted struggle," Mr. Taylor said, "When that ended, we had an opportunity to pull back, take a good look so that we could make a careful analysis to see how the Coliseum should be used in the future."
The Giuliani administration says it will make a formal recommendation to the M.T.A. board on the best use of the Coliseum once city officials have reviewed an economic and urban planning analysis of the Coliseum and its neighborhood.
M.T.A. officials were told to expect the review in early 1995, but they are still waiting. In more than one meeting, Mr. Dyson, who also sits on the M.T.A. board, has traded accusations with the M.T.A. staff over whom to blame for the delay.
In an interview, Mr. Taylor said the study would be ready "soon."
The M.T.A. is eager to rent the building for 10 years or more to pay for subway and bus improvements. But Giuliani aides have rejected the agency's plea three times over the past few months.
One M.T.A. board member, Peter S. Kalikow, said: "When we are cutting projects like the renovation of the 72d Street subway station from the capital program, then I have to ask what we are waiting for. We have an asset that is now earning zero."
He said that he understood the city's interest in seeing a project that would produce the most in tax revenue and jobs, but that his first concern was generating revenue for the transit system.
"I look on the Coliseum as strictly an adjunct to the M.T.A.'s capital program," said Mr. Kalikow, a real estate developer who was appointed to the board last fall by Mario M. Cuomo, then the Governor. "The Coliseum would have been of most value if we had been able to sell it. The next-best value comes from a long-term lease. It's that simple."
Last December, it seemed as if a truce had been declared between the city and the M.T.A. With the city's blessing, the M.T.A. decided to test the interests of potential tenants for a three-year lease of the exhibition hall. Under a partnership arrangement with the city, the agency has had the right to make a three-year deal, but officials have not accepted any current offers in the hope they could persuade the city to agree to a longer-term lease.
Among the companies submitting proposals for a three-year lease was Colossal Events Inc., a New Jersey-based concern that offered to pay nearly $7 million a year.
Last month, the M.T.A.'s chairman, Peter E. Stangl, renewed pleas to the city to go along with a long-term lease, saying in a letter to Mr. Giuliani that "annual rents under a three-year lease could be anywhere from $9 million to $3 million less than what would be attainable under a long-term lease."
M.T.A. officials denied that Mr. Stangl's letter to the Mayor was a sign that the agency had dropped the idea of signing a three-year tenant.
"All of the proposals are still under review," said John Cunningham, an M.T.A. spokesman. "We are not closing any doors."


GRAPHIC: Here are five ideas for what to do with the Coliseum exhibition hall, offered by potential tenants who were among the companies that responded to a request for proposals issued by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in December. All proposals are for three-year leases, as specified by the request.
 
PROPOSAL: Operate most of the space as a merchants' market with individual stalls, and sublease one of the upper floors for a roller skating rink.
 
OFFERED BY: Edward J. Minskoff Equities, Manhattan.
 
PROPOSAL: Stage a series of international festivals featuring the consumer products and food and entertainment of foriegn countries.
 
OFFERED BY: Colossal Events Inc., Ortley Beach, N.J.
 
PROPOSAL: Operate a movei production studio also renting space for short-term projects.
 
OFFERED BY: Vitt Media International Inc., Manhattan.
 
PROPOSAL: Divide the space and sublease to retailers specializing in "big box" household appliances and electronics, like refrigerators.
 
OFFERED BY: The Kaplan Group, Boston.
 
PROPOSAL: Reopen the Coliseum full time for exhibitions and events like flower, antique and automobile shows.
 
OFFERED BY: Pei Group Holdings Ltd., Manhattan.
 
(pg. B2)
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Plans for the Coliseum"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; NEW YORK COLISEUM; RENTING AND LEASING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); RETAILERS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (65%); TRADE SHOWS (63%); HOUSING MARKET (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B; KENNEDY, SHAWN G RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



252 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Public Gives Congress Good Marks, but Is Mixed on Gingrich

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10

 BODY:
If the latest parade of opinion polls is any gauge, much of the public is enthusiastic that Republicans are getting more done in this Congress than Democrats did before. But at the same time, they say they have reservations about parts of what the aggressive new Congress is doing.
And their feelings toward the architect of the party's agenda, Speaker Newt Gingrich, are emphatically mixed.
Most of those trends appear in three surveys conducted in late March and early April for The New York Times and other news organizations. They suggest that Mr. Gingrich's brisk manner and attack-dog speaking style do not wear as well as the party he has lately come to symbolize. 
 That said, many who appear not to care much for Mr. Gingrich personally still give him decent marks as a strong leader with a coherent political vision. And many rate him a crucial factor in whatever political success the Republicans are enjoying.
For the most part, the polls record a sense among the public that the Republicans have run Congress effectively during their first 100 days in power. For example, a poll of 800 adults conducted for Time magazine and Cable News Network on March 29 and 30 showed that 58 percent said Republicans had done a good or very good job of running Congress; 33 percent rated their performance fair or poor.
In The New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted April 1-4, 57 percent of the 1,089 adults surveyed said they believed this Congress would get more done than have typical, previous Congresses.
A survey for USA Today and CNN by the Gallup Organization, conducted on April 5-6, drew a more divided response: Of the 802 people polled, 42 percent said the last three months of Congress had been a success; 40 percent rated them a failure.
Mr. Gingrich gets a healthy share of credit for whatever success the Republicans have enjoyed in the two polls that considered the issue. Fully 60 percent of those who replied in the Gallup poll said the party would have pushed fewer bills through Congress had Mr. Gingrich not been Speaker; 80 percent said he would be somewhat or very important to the party's legislative success in the next year.
Fifty-six percent in the poll rated Mr. Gingrich an effective leader, while 35 percent did not. Similarly, 51 percent of respondents to the Times poll said Mr. Gingrich had "strong qualities of leadership," compared with 30 percent who disagreed. The Time/CNN poll did not ask questions about Mr. Gingrich's leadership skills.
Still, with the exception of responses to one question, more people disapproved of Mr. Gingrich personally than approved of him. The exception was a Gallup poll question that asked citizens to evaluate their like or dislike of Mr. Gingrich on a 10-point scale. Exactly half of the respondents indicated they liked Mr. Gingrich at least a bit, with 6 percent giving him the highest rating. Among the other half, 18 percent gave Mr. Gingrich the lowest rating.
But in the same poll, respondents disapproved of what Mr. Gingrich "stands for politically" by 46 percent to 40 percent. The views of his "personal style" were similar: 49 percent disapproved while 40 percent approved.
And when asked to agree or disagree with specific descriptions of the Speaker's character, respondents in the Gallup poll showed clear preferences. Fifty-six percent agreed that he was too politically partisan, 48 percent thought him "thin-skinned about criticism," and 49 percent agreed that he was "reckless," as against 41 percent who said that description did not apply.
Fifty-one percent said Mr. Gingrich had a "clear vision for the future," and 49 percent said he keeps his promises.
In the Time/CNN poll, respondents disapproved of Mr. Gingrich's handling of his job by 47 percent to 41 percent. In the Times/CBS poll, respondents answered a nearly identical question by approving of Mr. Gingrich's performance, 39 percent to 34 percent. The remaining 27 percent either did not know or refused to answer.
The margins of sampling error in the Gallup and Time/CNN polls were four percentage points; the margin in the Time/CBS poll was three percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); WINES, MICHAEL NEWT GINGRICH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



253 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Palestinians Seize 100 Militants Who Oppose Talks With Israel

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: GAZA, April 10

 BODY:
The Palestinian police announced today that they had arrested more than 100 members of Hamas and Islamic Holy War, the militant groups that took responsibility for two anti-Israeli bombings on Sunday in the Gaza Strip.
The death toll among victims of the bombings rose to eight, when an Israeli soldier and an American student died today. 
 This morning, a new military-style court set up by the Palestinian Authority to crack down on militants also issued its first sentence: a 34-year-old member of Islamic Holy War was sentenced to 15 years in jail on charges of training youths to attack Israelis.
The actions indicated a stiffening of Yasir Arafat's resolve to deal forcefully with the radical Palestinians who are challenging his authority. Senior Palestinian officials said that they would widen their crackdown, but that they remained persuaded that the only way to curb the violence would be to improve the economic situation in Gaza.
Despite the crackdown, there was defiance today from the militants.
Mahmoud Zahar, the most senior member of Hamas in Gaza, said in an interview at the Islamic University that the official moves were "empty gestures" and that similar tactics by the Israeli Army when it occupied Gaza had failed to end resistance.
Dr. Zahar, a physician and university professor, contended that Mr. Arafat would pay a heavy price in popularity for the arrests, but would not stop attacks against Jewish settlements in Gaza and targets in Israel.
The death toll among victims of Sunday's bombings rose to eight today with the death of the American student and an Israeli. The seven Israelis who died, five men and two women, were soldiers. More than 40 people were wounded. Two bombers also died.
The American student was Alisa M. Flatow, 20, a Brandeis University junior from West Orange, N.J., who had been spending a semester studying in Jerusalem. She had been traveling to a beach resort at a Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip and was wounded in the head in the first of the bombings. Her father, Stephen, said some of her organs would be given to transplant patients.
Israel barred Palestinians from a six-mile stretch of Gaza's main north-south road between Kfar Darom and Netzarim, the Jewish settlements where the attacks occurred, Israeli security officials said today. Two roads linking the settlements with Israel were also closed.
In Khan Yunis, in the south of the Gaza Strip, the police exchanged fire with Hamas gunmen before arresting two of them, Palestinians said. There were no reports of injuries.
[The Palestinian police and Islamic militants exchanged fire in Gaza early on Tuesday, Reuters reported, quoting residents and officials. There were no reports of casualties.]
Nabil Abu Irdeina, Mr. Arafat's spokesman, said in an interview on Sunday that the Palestine Liberation Organization knows the "peace process is facing a real danger."
He contended that the "main danger to the whole process is Israel's constant search for excuses to delay its withdrawal from the West Bank and the rest of Gaza, and the economic strangulation of Gaza and the Palestinians."
A number of countries have committed funds to help the Palestinian Authority improve conditions, but most of the funds have yet to be delivered. In addition, from time to time Israel has barred Palestinian workers from entering Israel. Mr. Abu Irdeina said blocking the workers had aggravated the tensions among the million Palestinians living in the narrow Gaza Strip.
Still, today's sentencing by the special court and the roundup of suspects was meant to send a message both to Israel and to Islamic militants that the Palestinian Authority is serious about its efforts to stop attacks on Israeli targets.
The court sentenced the militant, Samir Ali el-Jedi, after an all-night trial that was closed to the public. Mr. Jedi had been charged with training Palestinians, including teen-agers, for suicide missions against Israelis, a copy of a judgment said. He is the first Palestinian sentenced to prison by the Palestinian Authority for anti-Israeli activities.
Today spokesmen for Hamas and Islamic Holy War, which oppose peace talks with Israel, said they would continue to attack Israelis.
"Arresting people will not solve the problem," said Dr. Zahar, of Hamas. "The Israelis have tried that before. The P.L.O. is doing the same thing now and getting the same reception. When they show up at homes to arrest our people, their cars are stoned and children spit at them."
Dr. Zahar said Hamas was determined to avoid a confrontation with the P.L.O. and with Mr. Arafat, the group's chairman. "Why should we have a confrontation with him?" he asked. "He is losing his popularity every time he uses the word 'terrorists' to describe Palestinians fighting against Israeli occupation."
There are indeed increasing signs that the P.L.O. is losing support.
On Friday, in what amounted to the first open election under the Palestinian Authority, Hamas adherents in the nurses' union won all 11 seats on the governing board. The Hamas supporters had run against a bloc of P.L.O. supporters and candidates from the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
Israel has argued that the suicide bombings and other attacks against its civilians and soldiers could lead it to reconsider whether self-rule will be expanded beyond Jericho to the rest of the West Bank. Sunday's killings brought to 64 the number of Israelis killed in attacks since October for which Hamas and Islamic Holy War have taken responsibility.
The P.L.O. contends that it is under siege both by Islamic militants and by Israeli hard-liners.
"We consider what happened yesterday to be a challenge against the people of Gaza and their interests," Mr. Abu Irdeina said, referring to the bombings. "We are being squeezed by extremists on both sides. But if we lose, the Israelis will lose too, and everyone will pay the price, which will be the death of the peace process itself."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israeli soldiers comforted each other yesterday at the funeral of a colleague killed in the Gaza Strip. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO); HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT); ISLAMIC HOLY WAR HAMAS (93%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO); HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT); ISLAMIC HOLY WAR HAMAS (93%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); BOMBINGS (91%); HAMAS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); RESORTS (65%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: FLATOW, ALISA M; ARAFAT, YASIR ; ZAHAR, MAHMOUD; IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



254 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Latest Films for $ 2: Video Piracy Booms in Russia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 10

 BODY:
Oscar fever does not usually run too high in Russia, but Aleksandr Boitsov is an enterprising man in a tough market. For the month or so before the Oscar ceremony last month, instead of just displaying the usual "Rocky" and Sharon Stone films, he pushed videocassettes of the year's major Academy Award nominees.
For a little more than $2 apiece, shoppers at the mammoth outdoor software and video market here can choose among "Pulp Fiction" (loosely translated as "Criminal Reading Material"), "Forrest Gump," "Nell" and many other video titles that are not even available yet in the United States. 
 But in Russia, where not long ago simply owning private property was a crime, there is still no genuine functioning legal system. Intellectual property is a vague, emerging concept that few understand and fewer care about. Copyright laws are flouted brazenly here, and there is almost no film, book, compact disc or computer software that cannot be found for a fraction of what it would cost in the United States.
"There is a law against this kind of theft," said Svetlana Abromovna, a senior researcher at the Institute of Civil Law in Moscow who has studied on intellectual property rights for 30 years. "But there are many laws in Russia that nobody takes seriously. There are no penalties."
Nobody who has spent as much as two hours strolling through Moscow could doubt that she speaks the truth. Nearly every kiosk, stall, store or market in the city sells videocassettes, compact discs and computer software at prices that would make any American customer reach for his or her wallet. But industry officials say almost all of these products have been copied illegally.
For every 100 copies of the hot computer game, Doom, which sells here for about $3, or Microsoft's immensely popular word processor, Word for Windows, which costs less than $10, perhaps only two have been sold through a licensed distributor, industry officials say. The rest are forged, and they vary in quality from perfect to unusable.
"I think it's worse there now than anywhere in the world," Steven Metalitz, vice president of the International Intellectual Property Alliance, a trade group based in Washington, said in a telephone interview. Last year alone, his organization says, American companies lost nearly $1 billion in revenues to Russians who illegally reproduce and sell copyrighted products.
"China and other Asian countries are now finally cleaning up their acts, but it seems like Russia is going in another direction," he said.
The rampant counterfeiting not only harms the people who have lost royalties but also makes it impossible for legal computer software designers and video distributors to make a living here.
Political leaders, who want Russia to be accepted as a member of the World Trade Organization and as a law-abiding nation, have vowed to crack down on violators. The Government has said it will adhere to international copyright standards and punish violators.
So far, however, the talk has not been matched by any enforcement effort.
"Private property -- whether it is land, a car or somebody else's idea -- is still the hardest thing for Russians today to understand," Ms. Abromovna said. "In principle, everyone is for it. But in fact, nothing is harder than convincing a Russian to leave other people's property alone."
A walk around the giant outdoor market at Mitino, on the northeast edge of the capital, is like a trip to a computer lover's ultimate cut-rate Disneyland, with acres of technical equipment, compact disks, videotapes and above all, computer software on display. Some stalls selling videocassettes of recent films proudly advertise that they sell "laser prints," the highest quality a bootleg outfit can offer. Most proprietors are glad to let a customer watch a bit of any movie that is for sale.
"The quality of these things is perfect," said Yevgeny Komarov, a 41-year-old television repairman, as he cruised the market recently for videos and other toys of technology. "How can you possibly do better than this? It doesn't even cost much money."
Mr. Komarov bought a copy of "Schindler's List" dubbed in Russian for $3. As with most of these dubbed bargains, though, one Russian actor records all parts. In the $2 version of "Pulp Fiction," for instance, John Travolta and Uma Thurman share not only some wild adventures, but also the same voice. Like most customers, Mr. Komarov said that did not bother him.
He also bought a compact disk of "Bob Dylan's Greatest Hits" for $4. And with great excitement, he spent $11 on a CD-ROM made by Microsoft called Professional Office Suite, which bundles a number of the company's most popular and expensive programs together. Egghead Software was selling the same program in Manhattan that week for $599.98.
"Why do people in the United States pay so much for software?" he asked earnestly when he was told American prices. "All you have to do is get one tape or disk and you can make a hundred copies. That's what's so great about computers."
His statements indicated that like many of his countrymen, Mr. Komarov has not had time to absorb the niceties of the royalty system or to think about the people he might deprive of income. When he was told that he was breaking the law, he burst into laughter and swept his arm in a slow circle across hundreds of costumers who were doing the same thing.
"Tell them," he said, "not me."
Trade groups like the intellectual property alliance and the Software Publishers Association -- which also says the software piracy rate in Russia is now the highest in the world -- have lobbied the United States Trade Representative's office about the problem.
A spokesman for the Trade Representative said that the United States took very seriously all violations of copyrights patented there, and that the office was aware that Russia was a serious abuser. He said the Commerce Department had made it clear to Russian leaders that trade between the countries could not improve unless compliance did.
Now that the United States has used the threat of trade sanctions to force China to agree to a much more vigorous effort against such piracy, these groups hope that the United States will turn its attention to the problem in Russia.
Late last year the Russian Government signed the two major international laws that protect copyrights, the Bern Convention and the Geneva Phonograms Convention. But copyright violations are still civil offenses, and until they are covered by criminal law, it is unlikely that they will have any teeth.
Even if stronger laws are passed and enforced, much of the damage will be hard to erase. The shops that copy software have become increasingly sophisticated. For instance, they can eliminate codes that force new users to register by requiring confirmation when they load the software. And a major educational effort would be needed to convince the average Russian who wants to play a few computer games with his children on the weekend that he ought to pay 10 times as much for them as he does now.
The biggest long-term loser, clearly, is the Russian economy itself. Few countries have produced more gifted and aggressive computer and electronics experts and engineers. Software is among the fastest growing industries in the world, and it is perfect for Russia: high-tech, low-capital and reliant on brain power.
But the industry here is moribund because good programmers have either left for the United States or have given up developing Russian software. After all, who can compete with $5 dollar versions of the world's best accounting software?
"This was really one of our great prides," said Viktor A. Pavelev, a senior computer programmer at the International Investment Bank in Moscow.
Mr. Pavelev said that during the more than two decades he spent working for the Soviet Government, "leaders from I.B.M. and other major American companies would travel here to see how we did things -- and they were impressed."
"Now we can't keep up," he said. "You can't even buy blank disks for much less than it costs to get good programs. There is no incentive to try anything new because you can't earn a living if you do. So everyone has just given up or gone away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Intellectual property laws are ineffective in Russia, where illegal copies of American videos and software are often sold for a few dollars. In the giant Mitino market in Moscow, a man offered a CD-ROM for $9. The prices of imported goods are often cited in dollars instead of rubles for easy conversion. (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ALLIANCE MICROSOFT CORP (53%); INTERNATIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ALLIANCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ALLIANCE INTERNATIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ALLIANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; COPYRIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (79%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); FILM (77%); MUSIC & VIDEO WHOLESALERS (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (75%); COPYRIGHT LAW (73%); COPYRIGHT (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (71%); COUNTERFEITING (66%); INTERVIEWS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



255 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Penny-Pinching H.M.O.'s Showed Their Generosity In Executive Paychecks

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
The nation's big for-profit health maintenance organizations had a banner year in 1994 by doing what they are set up to do: squeezing every penny possible out of the fees charged by doctors and hospitals. But as they put pressure on health care providers to cut costs, the H.M.O.'s were rewarding their chief executives with sizable pay packages.
The cash and stock awards to the chiefs of the seven biggest for-profit H.M.O.'s averaged $7 million in 1994. "These are monstrously large grants, among the highest we have seen in any industry," said Graef Crystal, an executive compensation expert at the University of California at Berkeley. 
 On the one hand, publicly traded H.M.O.'s are accountable to their shareholders, and the payments to the top executives are meant to serve as a reward for increased earnings and higher stock prices. But on the other, critics say that the H.M.O.'s should be directing their spending at improving health care, not at large compensation packages.
The biggest pay package to the chief of a for-profit H.M.O., $15.5 million, went to Dr. Norman C. Payson, president and chief executive of Healthsource, a medium-sized H.M.O. in Hooksett, N.H. Dr. Payson's cash payment was $387,604, above the average payment of $255,000 that for-profit H.M.O. chiefs received, according to the Warren Surveys, which measures compensation at H.M.O.'s. But he also got stock options with a current value of $15.1 million.
At the Foundation Health Corporation, in Rancho Cordova, Calif., the chief executive, Daniel D. Crowley, received a $13.7 million package -- $3.3 million in cash and options valued at $10.4 million.
The stock options issued by the H.M.O.'s were valued by the companies or by outside compensation experts.
At Health Systems International, Dr. Malik M. Hasan, the co-chief executive, was given a "special bonus" of $1 million for helping the California H.M.O. win a huge Pentagon contract last month. The bonus -- $100,000 now and the rest deferred for tax reasons -- was folded into the $8.8 million in cash and stock that Health Systems paid Dr. Hasan for 1994.
There are, however, signs that such generosity by H.M.O.'s may be coming under challenge. Dr. Hasan's bonus is attracting scrutiny from health care economists and executive compensation experts. And the $2.5 billion Pentagon contract itself is being contested by the Aetna Life and Casualty Company, the current contractor. "The bonus might be premature," said Robert H. Kaplan, an Aetna health plans vice president.
Health Systems is not alone. Growing resentment among consumer groups, doctors and some employers suggests that 1995 may be the year in which the big H.M.O.'s begin to pay attention to some of their own expenses.
Other of 1994's highly paid H.M.O. chief executives include Roger F. Greaves, Dr. Hasan's co-chairman who recently resigned, $8.9 million; Dr. William W. McGuire, the United Healthcare Corporation, $6.8 million; George T. Jochum, Mid Atlantic Medical Services Inc., $3.7 million; Leonard Abramson, U.S. Healthcare, $3.9 million, and Stephen F. Wiggins, Oxford Health Plans, $2.8 million.
"H.M.O. executives' pay has exploded in the last five years," said Alan Johnson, an executive compensation consultant in New York. Still, he added, "Most of it is coming from long-term incentive awards, which is exactly where shareholders or policyholders would want to have it." And Mr. Crystal of Berkeley noted that a number of the executive stock option plans will pay off only if the H.M.O.'s stock price rises to specified levels above current prices.
Nevertheless, Mr. Johnson, also said: "These companies may want to portray themselves as kind of warm and cuddly, but they are big-time businesses, not quasi-charitable organizations. From a political standpoint, these numbers are obviously fodder for groups advocating national health care."
The stocks of the H.M.O. companies were strong last year. Douglas Sherlock, an investment banker specializing in H.M.O.'s, noted that H.M.O. stocks as a group rose 32.7 percent in 1994, while the Standard & Poor's index of 500 companies fell 1.5 percent.
The H.M.O. stocks rose 12 percent in the first quarter of 1995, outpacing the S.& P. 500 by 3 percentage points. Some analysts, however, are expecting a slowdown. Robert Mains of First Albany Securities said that "1995 will be a different year than any in the past because the monthly premiums that H.M.O.'s get will be more or less flat."
In any case, some customers will be looking hard at H.M.O. costs, including executive pay. "On its surface, it looks like a lot of money and it looks like a problem," said Helen Darling, health care strategy manager at the Xerox Corporation. "We would certainly want to understand better the relationship between the compensation they pay to executives and the premium we pay."
Jeanne Finberg, a senior lawyer in San Francisco with Consumer's Union, a nonprofit advocacy group, said, "It's no wonder that health care costs have skyrocketed when millions of dollars are being bled off to line the pockets of executives." And Mr. Crystal, the consultant at Berkeley, said it was "improper" for a chief executive like Dr. Hasan of Health Systems to be paid "a bonus based on anticipated future profits from a portion of a company's business."
Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health care economist at Princeton University, took a different view. He said the H.M.O. pay packages were financed by "the doctors and nurses and pharmaceutical companies on whom they put the squeeze." He added, "As long as the patients are happy, why should they care that Malik Hasan is going to be able to buy a new airplane every year?"
Professor Reinhardt said the H.M.O. executives were profiting by squeezing health costs, after the Government, for political reasons, had failed to do so. "We ran a sloppy show and didn't allow the Government to clean it up," he said. "It took certain people with guts to go after the doctors in this brutal fashion."
Spokesmen for physicians, not surprisingly, saw it differently. "We have considerable concern about the profit motive in health care," said Dr. James Todd, executive vice president of the American Medical Association. "Money that is paid out in profits to employees or investors is money that is leaving the system at a time when it is sorely needed."
Reflecting strong financial results from health care, the big insurance companies also paid their executives handsomely. Lawrence P. English, president of the Cigna Corporation's health care unit, got $2.1 million, including $1 million in stock options. James W. McLane, executive vice president for health and group life insurance at Aetna, got $888,286, of which 90 percent, or $799,447, was for health care duties.
Mutual insurance companies publish few financial details, but in a brief report to New York state regulators, the Prudential Insurance Company of America, which has the nation's second-largest H.M.O., said that William Link, its group insurance operations chairman, was paid $619,400.
As for nonprofit insurers, Kaiser Permanente, the nation's biggest H.M.O., said that Dr. David Lawrence, its chairman, received $803,000 in salary and bonuses "based on targets related to the quality of patient care."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rich Rewards" shows cash and stock options for the chiefs of highly profitable, publicly owned H.M.O.'s. (Sources: Johnson Associates, Industry reports, Warren Surveys)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (85%); HNT (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS923130 ADMINISTRATION OF HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAMS (EXCEPT EDUCATION, PUBLIC HEALTH & VETERANS' AFFAIRS PROGRAMS) (52%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEALTHSOURCE INC; FOUNDATION HEALTH CORP ; HEALTH SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC; UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP; MID ATLANTIC MEDICAL SERVICES INC; US HEALTHCARE ; OXFORD HEALTH PLANS AETNA INC (85%); FOUNDATION HEALTH CORP (66%); HEALTH NET INC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTHSOURCE INC; FOUNDATION HEALTH CORP ; HEALTH SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC; UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP; MID ATLANTIC MEDICAL SERVICES INC; US HEALTHCARE ; OXFORD HEALTH PLANS UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; FINANCES; BONUSES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); HEALTH CARE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); 

PERSON: PAYSON, NORMAN C (DR) ; CROWLEY, DANIEL D; HASAN, MALIK (DR); GREAVES, ROGER F; MCGUIRE, WILLIAM W (DR); JOCHUM, GEORGE T (DR); ABRAMSON, LEONARD ; WIGGINS, STEPHEN; FREUDENHEIM, MILT NORMAN C PAYSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



256 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Goodyear Gets President as It Sets Succession

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, April 10

 BODY:
The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company named Samir Gibara president and chief operating officer today, putting him in line to succeed Stanley Gault as chief executive.
The choice of Mr. Gibara, which was expected, meshes with the company's strategy of maintaining growth by expanding in markets outside the United States. Mr. Gibara, 55, who was born in Cairo and is fluent in several languages, has worked at Goodyear for 30 years, including executive posts in Canada and Europe. 
 The transition, which was announced at today's annual meeting, "hasn't been finally put to bed yet," Mr. Gault said. But analysts said the rise of Mr. Gibara, now head of Goodyear's North American tire operations, to the No. 2 post made him the heir apparent. Mr. Gault's contract with the company ends this year. Hoyt Wells, who holds the titles of president, chief operating officer and vice chairman of the board, announced his plans earlier this year to retire.
"Gibara certainly is the front-runner at this point," said Marvin Behm, fixed-income analyst at Duff & Phelps Credit Rating in Chicago..
Goodyear, based in Akron, also announced today that it had increased its quarterly dividend 25 percent, to 25 cents a share from 20 cents. The company forecast first-quarter earnings would rise between 86 cents and 88 cents a share, compared with 77 cents in the quarter a year earlier, in line with analysts' expectations.
Shares of Goodyear were unchanged at $38.125 today on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Gibara, who will be 56 on April 23, received his bachelor's degree in business administration from Cairo University and a master's degree in international business from Harvard Business School. He joined Goodyear in 1965 as a management trainee in France. He assumes his new responsibilities April 15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (94%); GT (NASDAQ) (94%); GT (BRU) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (94%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (94%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (94%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (94%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (94%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (68%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (94%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (68%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (76%); OHIO, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (91%); RUBBER & SILICONE (90%); TIRES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); TIRE MFG (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); DIVIDENDS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); 

PERSON: GIBARA, SAMIR F S; GAULT, STANLEY HOYT M WELLS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



257 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Climb in Technology Issues Lifts Market as Dow Gains 5.53

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Despite continued nervous trading of the dollar, the stock market rose yesterday, with technology stocks rising powerfully on expectations of a surge in earnings at Motorola, the cellular telephone and microchip maker that has often led the market in recent months.
The dollar stabilized in afternoon trading in New York, helping also to stabilize bond prices, which turn volatile when the dollar declines. 
 As a sign of the growing calm, the price of gold, a widely watched indicator of market nervousness, fell $3.10, to $392.60 an ounce for a contract set for June delivery.
Still, many stock traders stayed on the sidelines yesterday in advance of the Producer Price Index, scheduled to be released this morning, and the Consumer Price Index, scheduled for tomorrow. Moreover, the short week brought about by the Good Friday close of most financial markets in the United States could mean market action will be concentrated today and tomorrow.
In light trading yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.53 points, to 4,198.15, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.59 point, to 507.01. But the Nasdaq composite index, rich in technology stocks, rose 6.57 points, to 821.26.
Bond prices dipped slightly, and the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond was unchanged at 7.39 percent.
After falling briefly to as low as 80.15 yen, the dollar settled late yesterday at 84.02 yen, up from 83.82 yen on Friday. The dollar also edged up to 1.4100 German marks from 1.3779 marks.
"The average equity guy pays attention to the dollar when it's in free fall," said Todd Clark, managing director of equity trading at Rodman & Renshaw. "When it stabilizes, nobody cares."
Currency traders were cautious, however, about the stabilization in the dollar's value, saying the dollar's rise was brought about by technical factors, such as traders taking yen profits on a 15-minute drop in the dollar in Tokyo and rumors in New York of intervention by the Federal Reserve.
The biggest factors behind the dollar weakness against the yen is the United States trade deficit with Japan and the Federal budget deficit at home. Currency traders bid down the value of the dollar when the Republicans' balanced budget amendment was defeated in the Senate earlier this year.
But when there is a signal, like the Japanese meeting on import restrictions, that the United States may be able to sell more goods in Japan, thus lessening the trade deficit, currency traders bid up the dollar.
The recent surprise decision by the German central bank, the Bundesbank, to cut interest rates modestly, thus making the mark less valuable, also prompted traders in recent weeks to sell marks for yen. One consequence was to make the value of the dollar rise against the mark.
"At some point, as well," said Charles A. Spence, director of Treasury sales at Standard Chartered Bank, "people concluded that the dollar is undervalued." But he cautioned that the dollar could turn volatile once again since nothing fundamental had yet changed with either the United States budget deficit or the trade deficit.
On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing stocks outnumbered declining stocks by 1,109 to 1,057. The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.25 point, to 273.98, and volume was below normal at 261 million shares.
The Nasdaq index lifted substantially as securities analysts in the morning predicted higher-than-expected first-quarter earnings for Motorola. When Motorola reported earnings after the market closed, however, they were 61 cents a share, a penny shy of the consensus estimate of 62 cents.
Motorola's share price may drop this morning and have an effect on other technology stocks. Yesterday, it rose 7/8, to 56 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); DIRECT MARKETS HOLDINGS CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); GERMAN MARK (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); LEGISLATION (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



258 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: 70's Dreams, 90's Realities;
Renewable Energy: A Luxury Now. A Necessity Later?

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
It was a vision from the energy-short 1970's that seemed on the verge of coming true in the boundless 80's: harnessing the wind, the sun and hot water from the bowels of the earth to produce electricity without pollution and without end.
But that dream has foundered in the bottom-line 90's. Now, with costs still high and a new era of competition roiling the long-protected energy business, alternative sources of power are fighting for their lives. These so-called renewable sources may well survive only as window dressing for utility company annual reports, many industry experts say. 
 As the renewables lose ground, there is more on the line than the fortunes of producers like the Kenetech Corporation, the biggest supplier of wind-generated energy, and the California Energy Company, a major geothermal player. Their fate also has implications for the environment and the pace with which the country uses up nonrenewable fuels like coal and natural gas.
The decline of renewables carries long-term risk, for example, if global warming becomes something more than just a threat, said Daniel A. Kirshner, an analyst for the Environmental Defense Fund, a major environmental group. In that instance, there would be pressure to reduce pollution quickly. "It's going to be much more difficult to do that without a ready renewable industry," he said.
The renewables are turning into an endangered species because of the brutal economics of the utility industry, which is awash in surplus power and increasingly faced with big commercial customers demanding lower rates and finding them through independent energy wholesalers. Renewables are a luxury that belt-tightening utilities can no longer afford, executives complain, particularly now that natural gas is so plentiful and gas-fired generating plants so inexpensive to operate.
The price gap is big enough that one utility, Southern California Edison, a unit of SCEcorp, is even paying Kenetech not to produce electricity for future delivery, saying it will save millions by not fulfilling a long-term contract for wind-generated power.
What is more, state and Federal programs that fostered the growth of renewables by guaranteeing them a market despite high start-up costs have been effectively gutted by a recent decision by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In its ruling, the commission greatly weakened a provision of a 1978 Federal law that enabled states to force utilities to use renewables for some of their electricity through long-term contracts at what turned out to be above-market rates.
Although the decision was limited to California, where renewables have their strongest base, it is already being used by utilities in Iowa, Minnesota, New York and Texas to avoid future contracts. Without such contracts, there is little chance that much new capacity for wind, solar and geothermal power will be built.
"It's been devastating," said Jan Smutny-Jones, executive director of the Independent Energy Producers, a group of nonutility companies that provide power, sometimes from renewable sources, to big industrial customers and utilities. "The decision raises serious questions whether renewables will be allowed to compete in future markets."
The supporters of renewables believe that any short-term savings for the utilities will come at the expense of long-term benefits.
"Society will have to pay somewhere through respiratory problems from pollution," said Ken Karas, president and chief executive of Zond Systems of Tehachapi, Calif., a major developer of wind power.
Peter Fox Penner, head of one of the renewable energy projects at the Department of Energy, said that if environmental costs were added in, the renewables could increasingly compete for the new capacity that would have to be added by the end of the decade.
"In some ways it's cheaper to meet environmental standards by using renewables," he said.
Paradoxically, the decline of renewables comes at a time when some forms, particularly wind power, are making technical breakthroughs to bring down costs and make production more reliable.
But utility executives say the price gap is still too wide. Plants fired by natural gas can produce electricity for 3 cents a kilowatt-hour or less. Even the most advanced wind turbines produce power at about 5 cents a kilowatt-hour. Geothermal plants cost from 5.5 cents and solar power is 14 cents and higher.
Because of the Federal ruling, producers of alternative power are facing "a different world," said David K. Owens, a senior vice president of the Edison Electric Institute, which represents private utilities. "They have to be able to compete in the market. Utilities will now say to the wind power producers: 'Why should I buy power at 5 cents when I can get it much lower?' "
But not all utility executives are ready to drive a stake through the heart of the renewable energy sources. Some states will continue to foster their use, they say, and foreign markets beckon. And if costs continue to fall, a market in the United States should eventually reemerge.
"Some states, such as California, will come up with a way for renewable resources to stay in the mix," said Robert Glynn, executive vice president of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company of San Francisco, the nation's largest utility and one that has had extensive dealings with renewable suppliers. "The big unresolved issue is how much are they willing to pay for it and who will pay."
Indeed, the California Public Utilities Commission has asked that the ruling of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission be stayed while it considers what course to take.
State regulators and legislators who support renewables are in a bind, however, since they also want to bring more low-cost power into their states to prepare their utilities for more competition.
Those who produce alternative power are not ready to throw in the towel, either.
"There is no question that a large amount of business has been placed at risk," said Clarence Grebey, a spokesman for Kenetech, the wind power producer. But, he added, "That doesn't mean that we are moping around thinking we don't have a future."
Still, that future is not nearly as bright as it was in the 70's, when alternative power was touted as the vehicle that would help free the country from the dirty grip of fossil fuels and the risks of nuclear energy. Even with the big push provided by the 1978 Federal law, the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, renewables now account for only 2 percent of energy use in the United States.
If renewables found a home anywhere, it was in California, which went beyond the Federal law with its own supportive legislation.
Because of that support, companies like Kenetech were able to thrive. Based in San Francisco, Kenetech got commitments in recent years from the state's three largest utilities to buy up to 945 megawatts of power -- enough to run a city the size of Phoenix and the biggest order for wind power ever. It meant supplying 2,800 turbines, worth about $1 billion.
But the three utilities -- Southern California Edison, Pacific Gas and Electric and San Diego Gas and Electric -- were strongly opposed to making such commitments because of the extra cost.
Last November, Southern California Edison agreed to pay Kenetech an undisclosed amount to keep it from producing 420 megawatts of power. The utility said the payment would produce a net savings of about $200 million.
Kenetech will still be able to build a much smaller plant and have the right to build more if the utility should need more power in the future. That, some industry executives concede, is the window dressing.
The Federal agency ruling has put other Kenetech contracts in jeopardy, including one for 100 megawatts with Pacific Gas and Electric. Kenetech's chances of adding any more capacity in the future in the United States now appear to be slim.
The blow comes at a time when Kenetech is finally surmounting start-up problems with a new variable-speed turbine that makes the conversion of wind to energy more efficient.
The combination of the start-up problems and the Federal ruling has sent Kenetech stock into a tailspin. The stock, which traded as high as $29.50 a share last year, closed yesterday at $11.75, up 50 cents.
"They basically made a regulatory bet, not a market bet, and they lost," said Lawrence D. Gilson, the president of Venture Associates, a consulting group that follows the utility industry for Arthur Andersen.
Kenetech is now looking overseas. It recently signed agreements to ship 92 turbines to India and is building plants in Spain and the Netherlands.
At this point in the United States, "no other fuel source can compete with spot market gas pricing," said David Sokol, chairman and chief executive of California Energy, the Omaha-based geothermal company.
But while gas prices are now low, there are no guarantees for the future, said Mr. Karas of Zond Systems, the wind power developer.
"Gas prices are at a historical low," Mr. Karas said. "Will they stay that way forever? I don't think so." And when they go up, he said, wind and geothermal plants built now to produce at 5 cents a kilowatt-hour will look pretty good, he said.
"To burn gas to save a few cents per kilowatt-hour and not do anything to support renewables is absurd," Mr. Karas said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With natural gas so plentiful, there is little incentive for utilities to support wind-generated power projects like these windmills in the Tehachapi Pass of California. (Robert Reinhold)(pg. D1); High costs and increased competition in the utility industry threaten future projects using so-called renewable sources: wind, solar and geothermal power. One project that has been producing electricity from solar power for 13 years is Southern California Edison's Solar One, near Barstow, Calif. (Southern California Edison)(pg. D2)
 
Chart: "What Energy Costs to Produce" shows kilowatt per hour costs for various renewable energies. (Source: Utility Data Institute, Department of Energy)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: KENETECH CORP; CALIFORNIA ENERGY CO VALUEACT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (70%); MIDAMERICAN ENERGY HOLDINGS CO (69%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KENETECH CORP; CALIFORNIA ENERGY CO ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; GEOTHERMAL POWER; COAL; GAS (FUEL) RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



259 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Mets Ready to Make an Offer to Butler

BYLINE: By JENNIFER FREY 

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla., April 11

 BODY:
Fewer than 24 hours after saying Brett Butler was "not a guy we are targeting," the Mets stepped up their interest today in the free-agent outfielder. Fred Wilpon, a team owner, called Butler at home with a personal appeal and club executives were poised to make his agent, Richard Moss, an offer.
According to Gerry Hunsicker, the Mets' assistant vice president of baseball operations, the Mets have completed meetings to determine how much they can offer Butler and stay within their budget. They expected to make an offer as soon as they were able to contact Moss, who was traveling today. 
 "We should find out in the near future if we have any chance of getting a deal done," Hunsicker said. "I don't think this thing is going to last very long. If he's swept off his feet by someone else, so be it."
To become the Mets' leadoff batter and center fielder, Butler would have to be willing to take a substantial cut from the 1994 salary of $3.5 million he would have earned with the Los Angeles Dodgers without a strike.
The Mets' salary limits, determined after discussions that included Wilpon, apparently do not stretch substantially above $1.5 million. Because those figures do not represent a starting point for contract negotiations, but rather an outline of the Mets' limits, the club does not expect its discussions with Butler to last for more than a day or so.
Reached at his home in Atlanta tonight, Butler said he was well aware of the economic situation in baseball and its effect on salaries. But he would not discuss how low an offer he'd be willing to accept. While emphasizing his interest in the Mets, Butler also said his pride would prompt him to walk away from baseball before he played for a figure that he found an insult.
"When an offer comes in -- whether it's from the Mets or whomever -- I'll go from there and make a decision whether it's in my best interests to stay in this game or not," said Butler, who turns 38 years old on June 15. "I'm not antsy, I'm tired. I'm tired of all the stuff that's been going on this winter and all the stuff that's going on now."
Butler, a visible and vocal supporter of the union's position, said he believed his role in the labor dispute was "being used against me" in his pursuit of a free-agent contract. But he also said the call from Wilpon, a moderate among owners in the labor dispute who is popular with his players, certainly weighed in the Mets' favor.
With the season barely more than two weeks away, Butler said he has had some interest from other clubs. One apparantly is the Baltimore Orioles, who reportedly have offered him a one-year deal of $1.2-$1.3 million.
"To me, it doesn't look like anybody is in any hurry to sign Brett Butler," he said.
Despite an obvious hole at the top of their lineup, the Mets did not pursue Butler earlier this spring because they felt he was out of their financial reach. The Mets have consistently said that, in the aftermath of signing both John Franco and Pete Harnisch to substantial contracts, they cannot sign any big-ticket free agents.
If Butler is to sign with the Mets, he will have to do what two of his former Dodger teammates -- Orel Hershiser and Tim Wallach -- have done this spring. Both signed contracts that involved salary cuts of nearly $2 million from their 1994 levels.
"If I'm going to float my boat, last year I hit .314 and I had 8 home runs on Aug. 12, when my best is 9 home runs for a full season," said Butler, disputing comparisons to the Hershiser and Wallach situations. "I haven't shown any signs of slipping. I don't expect to be paid $3.5 million, but I expect it to be within reason."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fans lining up yesterday morning in Port St. Lucie, Fla., to purchase tickets to Mets exhibition games. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (89%); FLORIDA, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) BASEBALL (93%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); SPORTS BUSINESS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: FREY, JENNIFER; BUTLER, BRETT BRETT BUTLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



260 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Mexico Environment Needs Bailout

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Mexico, after having imposed tough austerity measures at home and set aside oil revenues to secure loans that make up the United States portion of the peso rescue package, must be discouraged by efforts in the United States Congress to back out of the commitment altogether (front page, April 2). 
 Rather than simply add to Mexico's economic woes, Congress might pursue opportunities for the two countries to move ahead together. There are many such opportunities, but the border region is a good place to start.
Here neighbors can take advantage of opportunities that arise from mutual self-interest, that depend on community-based initiatives, and that do not require increases in government spending from either country. However, the federal governments must act together to give border residents the management institutions they need.
For example, air pollution that moves back and forth across the border between the sister cities of El Paso, Tex., and Juarez, Chihuahua, causes illness, higher medical costs, lower productivity and reduced quality of life. This problem -- like the degradation of other common air basins, acquifers and watersheds along the border -- can be fixed.
The best way to clean up El Paso-Juarez's air is for the two federal governments to establish a binational air-quality management district and delegate responsibility to the people who live and work in the region. If local businesses are given flexibility to achieve targets, they will make the most cost-effective reductions first, and new or expanding polluters in El Paso might decide to offset their emissions by investing in low-cost pollution abatement activities in Juarez.
Political bashing doesn't make sense. It would be better to tackle tasks that will benefit both Mexico and the United States and link sustainable economic growth with environmental protection in the years ahead.
 
PETER M. EMERSON
Senior Economist
Environmental Defense Fund
Austin, Tex., April 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; ENVIRONMENT BAILOUTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); AIR QUALITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); 

PERSON: EMERSON, PETER M

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



261 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Stottlemyre Goes to A's Without Anger for Jays

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla., April 10

 BODY:
Some tiny part of Todd Stottlemyre would like to say something nasty about the Toronto Blue Jays, would like to express anger and frustration that he has been at a camp for jobless men in Homestead instead of the Blue Jays' camp across the state.
But no part of him, however tiny, can do that, however agonizing the pangs of separation are as he puts the Blue Jays in his past and heads for Oakland, where he will pitch for the Athletics with a $1.8 million salary, $520,000 less than his 1994 salary. 
 "It would be tough for me to sit here and say bad things about the Jays because there were nothing but good times for me there," the pitcher said at the Players Association's spring camp for unsigned free agents, before learning that he had a job with the A's. "That's a great organization over there."
So great that playing for the Blue Jays, Stottlemyre said, "was as good as going fishing with Thurman Munson. I get goose bumps when I think about it. They were great people to be with. The last couple days haven't been easy. I'm leaving where I lived."
Stottlemyre was a child when his father, Mel, pitched for the Yankees, and the fringe benefits included fishing trips with his father's catcher, Munson. The fringe benefits of playing for the Blue Jays included first-class treatment and first-place finishes.
Stottlemyre grew up in the Toronto organization, spending all nine years of his professional career in it. He could have remained with the team had he accepted a three-year, $7 million offer early last December, but personal negotiations ran into faltering labor negotiations and signing-freeze strike strategy.
When normalcy returned to baseball last week, the Blue Jays began looking elsewhere for a fifth starter to bolster their pitching rotation, and today they reached agreement with another free-agent right-hander, Danny Darwin. At 39, he is 10 years older than Stottlemyre, but at $300,000, much cheaper.
"To have signed Todd now would put us way beyond our payroll budget," Gord Ash, the Blue Jays' new general manager, said from Dunedin, explaining that his payroll limit was $44 million. "This has been one of the more difficult situations we've been involved in because Todd has been a Blue Jay since the beginning of his career."
Last December, the Blue Jays offered Stottlemyre arbitration to retain negotiating rights to him, but since then, the system changed and changed back, and clubs had until last Friday to offer arbitration to their free agents. The day before, though, the Blue Jays acquired David Cone in a trade.
That deal effectively ended Stottlemyre's chances of returning.
"It's a little different than I expected because of the circumstances surrounding the game," Stottlemyre said. "You get six years in, and you know you're going to be a free agent with the thought you'll find out what the people around the league think about you. Then we get to this circumstance and here I am in Homestead."
On one hand, Stottlemyre said, he was "a little disappointed" that the Blue Jays, in effect, said to him, "It's time to go." On the other, he quickly added: "I don't blame them. They got David Cone. Anyone who had a chance to get David Cone would do that. He's one of the best pitchers in the league. You have to give credit to the organization for going out and trying to get the best people to put the best product on the field. Toronto's always done that. I was a part of that and this time I fell on the short end."
Stottlemyre several times said he was "over" the disappointment of being banished from the family, but it was evident he still had some work to do.
"On the first day of camp each spring," he related, "I'd say jokingly -- but I meant it, too -- 'Welcome to the first day of camp. Get on your hands and knees and say thanks for putting this uniform on.' It was that good. There's always ups and downs, bad times and good times, but I see nothing but good. I guess that's what makes it hard knowing I'm not going back.
"It wasn't good for me; it was great for me. I had a manager who went to bat for me. I got two World Series rings. What else can a player ask for?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: OAKLAND ATHLETICS TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND ATHLETICS TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); STRIKES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); SPORT FISHING (72%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; STOTTLEMYRE, TODD TODD STOTTLEMYRE (96%); DAVID CONE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



262 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Computer Chip Ratio Was Up for March

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., April 10

 BODY:
The book-to-bill ratio compiled by the Semiconductor Industry Association rose to 1.14 last month from a revised 1.11 for February, the group said today.
The ratio, which measures the demand for computer chips in North America, was the second highest for March during the last nine years. In March 1987 the ratio was 1.15. The number for February was revised down from 1.12. 
 A ratio of 1.14 means that for every $100 of goods shipped, semiconductor makers took in $114 in new orders. A ratio higher than 1 indicates that the market is expanding.
The ratio is computed using a three-month moving average and is seasonally adjusted using the same method used by the Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMPUTER CHIPS ELECTRONICS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NEW ORDERS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



263 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 6; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Aid Cutoff Feared By Some In Arts

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
Many of New York's smaller arts organizations were scrambling yesterday to organize a response to what they believed was a new city proposal to eliminate their grants from the Department of Cultural Affairs.
The organizations, more than 400 that make up what is known as the program group, were allotted $12.5 million in grants in the 1995 fiscal year. 
 Administrators of some of the groups, which include such disparate organizations as Dance Theater of Harlem, Performance Space 122, the Alvin Ailey Dance Company and the Metropolitan Opera, said that all direct grants from the city would be eliminated in 1996 under a plan proposed by John S. Dyson, the deputy mayor for finance and economic development. The total budget for the cultural affairs department this year is $96.1 million.
A spokesman for Mr. Dyson would neither confirm nor deny the proposal. "Many scenarios have emanated from within the administration concerning all city agencies," said the spokesman, Forrest Taylor. "It is too early to comment on what direction the Mayor is headed."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's final budget will not be submitted for approval by the City Council for another month.
In December 1993, just before he took office, Mr. Dyson touched off a furor by suggesting that the city channel its cultural grant money primarily, if not exclusively, to the city's premier cultural organizations, which he said pulled in most of the tourist dollars. He expressed deep skepticism about the program groups, describing them as recipients of "clubhouse type political handouts." His remarks provoked a barrage of criticism by arts administrators and local politicians.
The arts administrators expressed the fear that Mr. Dyson remained dubious about the program groups, and that the proposed cuts reflected his belief that the city should invest in proven winners, while smaller organizations should demonstrate their worth by showing an ability to raise money.
The main recipients of money from the Department of Cultural Affairs are the 31 organizations that make up the "cultural institutions group," most of them larger organizations, like the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Brooklyn Museum. Those groups received $74 million in 1995 and, arts administrators said yesterday, will face an additional cut of $9 million beyond the $11 million proposed in the Mayor's preliminary budget.
Although the $173,000 that the Metropolitan Opera receives from the city accounts for only a tiny fraction of its annual budget, city grants represent a much larger slice of the budget pie for most of the program groups. Their administrators say it is also the hardest kind of money to raise: general operating expenses.
Schuyler G. Chapin, the Cultural Affairs Commissioner, proposed in a March 23 memo to Mr. Dyson that the cuts should be administered equally to the cultural institutions group and the program group. Mr. Chapin was out of town and all questions about the department's budget were referred to Mr. Dyson's office.
The proposed cuts in direct grants would be partly offset by a dollar-for-dollar program of matching or challenge grants under which the city would provide $7.8 million to organizations able to raise money on their own. The matching grants program was first proposed in mid-February in the Mayor's preliminary budget. In essence, this would be a smaller version of the $10 million matching-grants program that was put into operation by the city and state last year. That plan provided grants to organizations that raised money to create new programs or expand existing programs with the goal of increasing and diversifying their audiences.
The program-group administrators say, however, that the matching grants will not offset the direct cuts. "A challenge program in a year when base funding is being cut is meaningless," said Steven Tennen, the executive director of Arts Connection, which brings visual and performing artists to schools in the five boroughs. "I have to replace the base funding from private sources. I couldn't conceivably think about expanding, which is what the challenge grant is for." Arts Connection receives $300,000 from the city and last year received an additional $30,000 in matching-grant money.
Mark Russell, the artistic director of Performance Space 122, said: "We've just gone through a cultural challenge. It's been a push all year to make that work. I don't think I could stand it another year."
Mr. Russell said his organization received $16,121 from the city in 1995 from its regular services contract. Under the city's portion of the city-state challenge grant, it received $20,000 to expand its audience by offering a late-night series and student passes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC) ARTS CONNECTION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC) ARTS CONNECTION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); OPERA (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICS (70%); TOURISM (51%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



264 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Former President With a Difference

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
If "Jimmy Carter: To the White House and Beyond" is any measure of the former President's stock these days, the market is definitely bullish. As Jack Perkins, the host of Arts & Entertainment's "Biography" series, puts it, the man has gone from "political loser to national asset."
This affectionate hourlong portrait covers the career that began with a down-home boyhood in Plains, Ga. (the toothy smile is already aflash in photographs of the young Jimmy), where he fished, hunted, read "War and Peace," sold peanuts from the family farm and played mainly with black friends until segregated schools divided them. As Mr. Carter tells it, his promising career in the Navy was ended when his daddy (described by others as a racist) died and the son returned to Georgia to take over the peanut warehouse and do some politicking. 
 After a few rebuffs, he made it to the governor's mansion in 1970. Candidate Carter had been careful not to offend the white-supremacy crowd, but given the times, the place and his position, Governor Carter was forthrightly anti-segregationist.
And before long, without anything resembling a national reputation, he was tramping around New Hampshire and Iowa: "My name is Jimmy Carter and I'm running for President." With the help of his volunteer "peanut brigade" and his image as an outsider ("I will never lie to you"), he won the nomination and then, benefiting from President Gerald R. Ford's famous debate goof about the independence of Eastern Europe, won a close election.
No opinion is rendered here on whether the troubled Carter Presidency -- beset by a fuel shortage, inflation, the rise of fundamentalism in the Middle East and, disastrously, the taking of American hostages by Iranian militants -- was the consequence of incompetence, inexperience or just bad luck.
The accomplishments -- notably the Panama Canal treaty and the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel -- did not help Mr. Carter much in the 1980 campaign. Where he had spoken to the nation about "a crisis of confidence," Ronald Reagan made a straightforward appeal to voters' self-interest: "Are you better off than you were four years ago?" The answer was a decisive no.
Ejected from the White House, Mr. Carter seemed free again to be himself, principled, conscientious, hard-working and unconstrained by political pressures. Whether it was building homes for the poor in this country or fighting disease in Africa and Asia, he seemed to have gained new purpose and effectiveness.
In recent years, he has become an officially unofficial negotiator in North Korea, Bosnia, Nicaragua, Panama and Haiti. His accomplishments are disputed, and you will find no assessment tonight. But at the very least, he is occupying himself in more interesting ways than playing golf, the profession of choice for other former Presidents.
The program ends with a wry summing-up: the narrator, ABC's Jack Smith, calls Mr. Carter "one of the greatest ex-Presidents America has had."
 
BIOGRAPHY
Jimmy Carter
Arts & Entertainment, tonight at 8 and midnight.
Produced by ABC News Productions in association with Arts & Entertainment. Jack Perkins, host.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BIOGRAPHY (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT PROGRAMMING LTD (70%); WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; CARTER, JIMMY JIMMY CARTER (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



265 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2191 words

HEADLINE: Haiti Murder Investigation: Avenues With Few Answers

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, April 10

 BODY:
Two weeks after the assassination of a prominent right-wing critic of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide caused strains with Washington over accusations that the Interior Minister may have been involved, investigators say they are still in the dark about who did it.
This much is certain: The white Subaru in which the victim, Mireille Durocher Bertin, was riding was blocked on a busy street in broad daylight. Gunmen in a red Mitsubishi jeep shot up the front tire on the driver's side, got out and raked the windshield with automatic weapons, firing from both sides of the car. Then they disappeared. 
 And that, despite a Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry ordered by President Clinton, is probably all that will be known for sure about the killing of Mrs. Durocher Bertin, a 35-year-old lawyer who became familiar to American television audiences last fall defending the former military Government. It is not even clear that Mrs. Durocher Bertin was the killers' target; her driver, a reputed drug trafficker, was reportedly shot many more times than she was.
"I suspect we're not going to get anywhere," said an official familiar with the F.B.I. investigation. "We have no information that will explain the killing."
The shooting, on March 28, opened a tiny, clouded window into this tormented land.
"There is no doubt that President Aristide's reputation has been severely blemished," said a prominent intellectual critical of the old order. "The killing is a major blow to President Aristide -- and to President Clinton."
The killing has become a rallying point for members of the old ruling elite, who flocked to Mrs. Durocher Bertin's funeral, attributing the shooting to President Aristide's supporters, saying it proved how dangerous they are.
For the Aristide Government, which denies involvement, the killing was a profound embarrassment, coming on the eve of a visit by President Clinton, and a source of friction with the United States over reports linking the Haitian Interior Minister, Brig. Gen. Mondesir Beaubrun, to the slaying.
With the approach of parliamentary elections, which were delayed today from June 4 until June 25, tension, disorder and intrigue are growing here. Crime is on the rise, with killings nearly nightly, many the work of unemployed soldiers and gunmen, some in robberies, others possibly political.
Prominent figures of the old order, like former Mayor Franck Romain of Port-au-Prince, are regularly on the radio, vowing to return to power. While the imposing white National Palace was polished to a sparkle for Mr. Clinton's visit, which marked the turnover of the American military presence to the United Nations, there is discord between President Aristide and the Cabinet of Prime Minister Smarck Michel and little change in the overwhelming poverty and misery afflicting some 95 percent of Haiti's seven million people.
The shooting came after the American military thought it had uncovered and foiled a plot to kill Mrs. Durocher Bertin, reportedly at the behest of General Beaubrun, by arresting six people.
American officials warned the Haitian Government of the suspected plot, but President Aristide has since resisted American pressure to suspend or dismiss General Beaubrun while the investigations continue. The initial six accused plotters were in custody at the time of the shooting, Haitian and American officials said.
One of the accused plotters has now told Haitian police and prosecutors that the next target was to come from the other end of the political spectrum: Leslie Delatour, the new governor of the Central Bank, who has angered the small group of mulatto families who run the economy by threatening to make them pay taxes and break up their Government-allotted monopolies.
 
The Attack
Killers' Target Open to Question
 Not only is it not known who ordered the shooting and why, it is not even certain that Mrs. Durocher Bertin was the primary or actual target. The driver, Eugene (Junior) Baillergeau -- a private pilot, reputed drug trafficker and a client of Mrs. Durocher Bertin -- was shot many more times than she was, said an official familiar with the autopsy, which has not yet been released.
The bullet-riddled Subaru indicates the ferocity of the assault, particularly on Mr. Baillergeau, and its efficiency. There were two spaced single shots fired from each side of the hood into the motor, presumably to disable the car.
Maj. Dany Toussaint, who heads the small interim Haitian Police Force and has detailed his own investigative team to the case, outlined the half dozen or more possibilities that, singly or in some combination, American and Haitian officials are examining as possible motives.
He said these would include whether there was one plot, with a second crew of gunmen not among those arrested, or an entirely separate operation, possibly taking advantage of the widespread knowledge of the arrests in the first plot. Was the first plot really what it seemed? If it was a settling of old scores, what were they? If it was political, was it to rid Mr. Aristide of an enemy, or to embarrass him? Could it have involved infighting among the right?
There could be other hidden factors, he said, even domestic discord. Not to be ignored, he emphasized, were possible connections with the drug trade, in which Colombian operatives have gained a strong foothold here during the period of military rule and the embargo.
Given Mr. Baillergeau's reputation for drug involvement and known association with illicit business circles close to the former military Government, many of whose members have themselves become deeply involved in drugs and smuggling, and the brutal efficiency of the shooting, several Government officials suggested that some kind of internal drug conflict played a role.
"To tell you frankly, I underestimated the extent of drugs and drug money in Haiti," said Patrick Elie, a member of Mr. Aristide's inner cabinet who concentrates on drug matters. "Coming back here after three years of exile, I'm just scared of what I see. There's not enough in this country to steal to explain the wealth in certain quarters."
 
The Detained
Two Brothers, Many Theories
 The chain of events began on March 19 when, American officials say, Claude Douge, an interpreter for the United States Army, told them of a plot, involving two brothers, Patrick and Eddy Moise, to assassinate Mrs. Durocher Bertin and produced Uzi assault rifles he said they had been given.
The Moise brothers were arrested along with two other men in a gray Isuzu Trooper registered to the Interior Ministry, carrying General Beaubrun's phone number; a business card of Gen. Joseph Cherubin, President Aristide's military adviser who is Mr. Beaubrun's patron, and a list of eight anti-Aristide lawyers, including Mrs. Durocher Bertin, American investigators said.
Mr. Douge and his wife, both being held as suspects in the plot, told investigators they understood Patrick Moise was being "tested" by the Interior Ministry and could be rewarded with a post as an intelligence department head and leader of a "popular movement." Investigators said one of those arrested, Michelet Nicholas, said he saw the Interior Minister give Mr. Moise the keys to the Isuzu.
The Moise brothers, along with the others, are ostensibly members of a far-left, pro-Libyan, anti-American group called the United Militant Front. But Major Toussaint and other Haitian officials said that in fact they were violent gangsters who acted in the past as provocateurs on behalf of the military.
They pointed out that the brothers walked away without punishment from an occupation of the Canadian Embassy in 1992, at a time when Aristide backers were being shot and left in the street.
 
The General
A Military Man With a Temper
 General Beaubrun is said to owe his appointment as Interior Minister, which used to control the army but is now largely vestigial, primarily to his military academy classmate, General Cherubin. A hot-tempered gambler, he had run afoul of one of the powerful coup leaders, Col. Michel Francois, people knowledgeable about the military said, when he tried to finish a fight he had gotten into with a man at El Rancho Casino by ordering the man released from the Petionville jail, controlled by Colonel Francois, into his own custody.
Pushed out of his command, he was thus regarded as relatively unconnected to corruption. After Mr. Aristide was returned to power last fall, General Beaubrun became one of the five colonels who vetted the army and police force to see who could stay on. He has produced lists of security threats, many of whom seem to have crossed him in the past, including the former Petionville commander, Maj. Patrick Bastien, whom he has sent to jail.
Last December, when soldiers were protesting for back pay, General Beaubrun opened fire through his office door, killing two guards.
"He was very nasty, unnecessarily so," Raymond W. Kelly, the former New York City Police Commissioner, who tried to mediate the dispute, said of the Minister.
Six days before Mrs. Durocher Bertin was killed, Maj. Gen. George Fisher of the United States Army wrote to Justice Minister Jean-Joseph Exume, informing him of the suspected plot, the arrests and the reported involvement of the Interior Minister. Mr. Exume says he warned Mrs. Durocher Bertin and offered protection, but she declined.
An attractive woman, so energetic and vivacious that she often seemed to eclipse her husband, John, a tall, handsome pilot, Mrs. Durocher Bertin did not seem particularly worried, Mr. Exume recalled in an interview. Indeed, she dropped by his office on Friday, March 24, with papers to register her new opposition political party.
In the couple's massive stone house in the hills high above the city, John Bertin recalled it differently. "I, as head of the family, was not notified," he said stiffly, and added that a phone call from the Justice Minister to his wife told her only not to worry and did not warn of the plot.
Nevertheless, he said, he was sufficiently worried in general to plan to take the family to the Dominican Republic on Tuesday, March 28, the day his wife was killed.
He said he also fretted that his wife was driving with Mr. Baillergeau, an old friend and sometime colleague since their days at flight school near Miami, whom she was representing in a dispute over damages to his plane by American soldiers at the airport. He feared that Mr. Baillergeau was not always alert, he said, and he kept calling on the radio and rushing through errands to try to catch up with them.
 
The Husband
At the Scene, Apparent Calm
 Eddy Pierre, a Bronx-raised Vietnam veteran, was standing in front of his mother's house on Avenue Martin Luther King, about 3:45 that afternoon when he noticed a white taxi with several rifle-carrying men in it parked jutting into the street. A white Subaru headed toward the airport suddenly spun around, turning back toward town, but was cut off by the red jeep and the men who piled out shooting. At that point, Mr. Pierre dived for cover.
"The daylight aspect of this was most brazen," said Mr. Kelly, whose international police monitors had turned over control of the area to the United Nations at noon. "It was so skillfully planned."
Mr. Bertin recalled that he was one of the first people to arrive on the scene. As a huge crowd gathered, many were struck by his apparent calm under the circumstances. The initial United Nations police report, a person who has seen it said, noted that one of the first things he did was to reach in the back of the car, saying he was looking for a radio or cellular phone.
The difficulty for the F.B.I. is that the ballistic and forensic tests will show, essentially, that a lot of bullets were pumped into the car and its passengers. But solving such crimes, experienced officers say, usually depends on criminal informants and canvassing of the neighborhood.
"Technically, these guys are the best in the world; they can tell you if a shooter is left-handed," said an official involved in the case. "But unless we find somebody who says, 'I saw the killers, they are these people,' we won't get to the bottom of it."
The killings have left Haiti fearful. In the Presidential Palace the mood is grim, and a close aide to Mr. Aristide said: "The very killers operating under the dictatorship are back at it. Why? They stand to gain both politically and materially if they are able to destabilize the country."
In well-to-do Petionville, hundreds of people lined up outside St. Pierre's Church for the funeral last week and the heavy four-wheel-drive cars favored by the wealthy blocked the streets. There were three former heads of state in the flower-filled church, along with a host of members of the old Parliament, military officers and lawyers in black robes.
The Haitian national anthem rang out and two Roman Catholic bishops, Louis Kebreau and Joseph Lafontant, officiated at the Mass, declaring that Mrs. Durocher Bertin had been "crucified like Christ."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mireille Durocher Bertin, a critic of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, was slain last month.; Mourners grieved at Mireille Durocher Bertin's coffin at her funeral in Port-au-Prince on April 3. (Photographs by Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (94%); 

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ASSASSINATION (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CRIME RATES (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); 

PERSON: DUROCHER BERTIN, MIREILLE; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); BEAUBRUN, MONDESIR (MIN); KIFNER, JOHN; MOISE, EDDY ; MOISE, PATRICK BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



266 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Chen Yun, a Chinese Communist Patriarch Who Helped Slow Reforms, Is Dead at 89

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

 BODY:
Chen Yun, a conservative Communist Party patriarch whose revulsion to Western capitalism was an important brake on the pace of economic reform in China during the last 16 years, died yesterday afternoon, a spokesman for the State Council, or cabinet, announced early today.
The cause of death was not disclosed, but the spokesman said China's official media would report details later today. Mr. Chen was 89. 
 Due to his seniority and influence in the party, Mr. Chen and the conservative central planners and Marxist ideologues whom he led were the principal counterweight to the economic opening by Deng Xiaoping that is transforming China.
Although Mr. Deng established himself as paramount leader in 1978, he was only first among equals with the revolutionary elders who founded the People's Republic of China in 1949 and who survived Mao Zedong, who died in 1976.
Thus Mr. Chen was once a formidable political obstacle with whom Mr. Deng was forced to compromise over policy and the structure of the next generation of leaders. Those leaders remain divided over how to carry out China's long-delayed modernization.
After a bout with an upper respiratory ailment last spring, Mr. Chen was thought to be near death. In June a number of top leaders rushed to his bedside in Shanghai, as did his family members, at least one of whom was in the United States. But Mr. Chen recovered.
Seeing so many people gathered in his room, he is said to have rebuked them, saying, "I'm not going to die yet."
Several weeks ago Mr. Chen was admitted to an exclusive ward of Beijing Hospital reserved for party leaders, and reportedly received frequent dialysis for kidney failure.
Mr. Chen was last seen in public in February 1994, in a televised greeting from party leaders during the Lunar New Year celebration. He looked remarkably fit at the time, much more so than Mr. Deng, who also made his last television appearance at that time.
As politically powerful as he was, Mr. Chen was self-effacing, going to extremes to stay out of the limelight, and preferring to work quietly behind the scenes.
In the summer of 1989, for example, his nurse complimented him on a television series that was portraying him very favorably. Mr. Chen, who was unaware of the series, then asked the Communist Party leader, Jiang Zemin, to stop the series because he did not want his contributions to be singled out, according to a Chinese with direct knowledge of the incident.
Likewise, Mr. Chen resisted for many years proposals that he move to Zhongnanhai, the leaders' compound in the center of Beijing. He said that his home, in an alley just outside the compound, made it easier for him to mix with friends and ordinary Chinese. About a decade ago, Mr. Chen gave in and moved with his family to a villa in Zhongnanhai.
For all his reticence, he had enormous power and was at the center of decision-making for virtually the entire period of Communist Chinese history. He served on the Central Committee for 56 years, from 1931 to 1987, and on the Politburo for more than four decades -- in both cases, longer than Mr. Deng. Since semi-retiring in 1987, Mr. Chen had been chairman of the influential Central Advisory Commission.
Even though he was removed from the day-to-day challenges of running the country, and only met with other leaders on rare occasions, Mr. Chen exerted tremendous influence.
He was perhaps best known for his vision of a "bird-cage economy." He argued that the market in China should operate like a bird in a cage. The cage must not be too small, lest the bird suffocate, but there had to be a cage to contain the bird, otherwise it would fly away.
A native of what is now part of Shanghai, he was born on the 11th day of the 5th month of the lunar calendar in 1905, and in a sign of his traditionalism, he and his family always celebrated his birthday according to the lunar calendar, even when almost all Chinese were using the Western calendar.
Born with the name Liao Chenyun, he dropped his surname when he went into hiding as a union leader with the Communist underground in the late 1920's. Mr. Chen never had any formal education after elementary school, but as a teen-ager he held various jobs at a publishing company, according to an American biographer, David M. Bachman.
Unlike most Chinese leaders of his generation, Mr. Chen did not have much military experience. But he rose fast within the Communist Party, and just nine years after joining the party in 1925, he was elected to the Politburo.
In 1934 he joined the Long March, the epic journey from the revolutionary base in southeastern China to the caves of Yanan in north-central China. After traveling only as far as Zunyi, in the southern province Gui zhou, Mr. Chen was dispatched by the Communist leadership to Shanghai to help lead the underground.
Through his intimate involvement in those turbulent years -- and through his survival of them -- Mr. Chen joined the elite of the early revolutionaries.
Mr. Chen is known to have taken only one trip to a foreign country: in 1935 he traveled to Moscow with a Communist delegation. He remained extremely cautious, almost suspicious, in his approach to Western countries.
When the Communists came to power in 1949, Mr. Chen helped run the economy, ending runaway inflation and formulating policies by which the Chinese economy would operate for the years to come. Then in 1961 and 1962, after Mao began the Great Leap Forward, which devastated China and caused widespread famine, Mr. Chen led the team that put the economy back on its feet.
In those years Mr. Chen was regarded as a pragmatist and relative "reformer" who believed in a limited role for the market. Ironically, in the late 1980's he held much the same views, but he was then regarded as a "hard liner," indicating how much China's economic thinking had changed.
He always advocated balancing the budget, keeping a tight rein on currency and investing in construction. But in sharp contrast to how he was viewed in his later years, Mr. Chen was considered in the Maoist era to be the most outspoken proponent of the market and economic restructuring.
When the Cultural Revolution began in 1966, Mr. Chen was removed from all posts except membership on the Central Committee. But he is believed to have escaped the beatings and humiliations that were the fate of many other top leaders.
After Mao died in 1976 and Mr. Deng clawed his way back to power, Mr. Chen also resumed a major role. In 1978 he was elected to the standing committee of the politburo, the highest policy-making body.
In the 1980's he became feeble and conservative, and Mr. Deng persuaded him to retire from his formal posts on the Central Committee at the 13th Party Congress, in the fall of 1987.
Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party leader ousted after the military crackdown in June 1989, maintained an amicable relationship with Mr. Chen for most of the 1980's. They met monthly and spoke on the telephone each week, according to a Chinese close to the leadership. In the meantime, however, Prime Minister Li Peng had developed even friendlier relations with Mr. Chen and came to be known as one of Mr. Chen's followers.
After the June 1989 crackdown, Mr. Chen was one of several octogenarian leaders who immediately voiced support for the military.
In the aftermath of the crackdown, China intensified its austerity plan, clamping down on inflation and imports, focusing on exports and expanding central control.
Some Western scholars have said that China's retrenchment bore the mark of Mr. Chen, who had applied similar measures during previous economic crises.
Owing to his seniority and his competition for influence with Mr. Deng, every aspect of the memorial services for Mr. Chen will be watched for political meaning.
In recent years many Chinese have felt that the fate of China could rest on which of the two most senior leaders, Mr. Deng and Mr. Chen, would survive the other, perhaps leading to a purge of the other's proteges and supporters.
Mr. Chen is thought to be survived by his wife, Yu Ruomu, about whom little is known. He is also survived by two sons and three daughters.
For all Mr. Chen's apprehension about the West, one of his sons, Chen Yuan, has traveled extensively in the West as a senior official of the People's Bank of China. A daughter, Chen Weili, has also traveled frequently to the United States and Europe as a top executive of China Venturetech, an investment banking firm in China.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chen Yun (Associated Press, 1994)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FAMILY (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); DIALYSIS (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (54%); 

PERSON: CHEN YUN; WUDUNN, SHERYL DENG XIAOPING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



267 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Climate Talks Enter Harder Phase of Cutting Back Emissions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
WHEN 120 countries decided in Berlin last Friday to hold talks for the first time on reducing emissions of heat-trapping industrial waste gases like carbon dioxide, they opened a new and vastly more difficult phase in the world's continuing effort to cope with the uncertain threat of climate change.
Industrialized countries have been obligated under a treaty signed three years ago at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro to place a ceiling on emissions of the so-called greenhouse gases at 1990 levels by the year 2000. Now, in their first meeting, the parties to the treaty have agreed to undertake negotiations, to be completed within two years, on actual reductions in emissions after 2000. 
 The accord to begin talks, known as the Berlin mandate, heartened environmentalists and their governmental allies. "It's a solid agreement," said Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, a senior scientist with the Environmental Defense Fund.
Scientists advising parties to the treaty say reductions are necessary because the overall concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere would continue to grow at 1990 emission rates. Making the reductions is a very tall order, since the industrialized countries as a group are already having difficulty taking even the modest steps required by the Rio treaty, the long-term objective of which is to prevent dangerous changes in the global climate system.
The scientists predict that a doubling of carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere, expected some time in the next century at current rates of emission, would cause the average global temperature to rise by 3 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit. This, they fear, could disrupt the climate system with largely unpredictable but possibly catastrophic consequences.
Evidence that the world's climate is warming has continued to accumulate since the Rio gathering. But despite some tantalizing and controversial findings that have recently emerged, it is still far from clear whether the rising emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases are responsible for the warming; and if so, whether the warming will have a mild impact or a seriously disruptive one.
Given this uncertainty and the lack of urgency it fosters, economic and regional divisions are expected to dominate the coming negotiations just as they always have, only more so given the higher stakes: since the burning of coal, oil and natural gas generates carbon dioxide, and the world economy runs on those fossil fuels, future cuts in energy use could exact economic pain. How much of this can be politically tolerated is uncertain at best. Any form of energy tax in the United States, for instance, seems a dead issue for the foreseeable future.
For poorer countries, the stakes are especially high; they need fossil fuels to develop their economies and raise their standards of living. These countries have steadfastly and so far successfully resisted having specific emission reduction targets and timetables imposed on them. The planned talks on reducing greenhouse gases after the year 2000 will apply only to industrialized countries and the former Soviet bloc, but the door was left open in Berlin for more explicit measures by developing countries after 1997. Environmentalists had feared that the developing countries might close the door, but they did not.
In fact, the developing countries softened what had been their implacable opposition to allowing rich countries to get credit toward meeting their reduction targets by providing technology or money to help poor countries reduce theirs -- for example, by investing in an energy-efficiency project. Pilot projects in this "joint implementation" arrangement will now be allowed on a voluntary basis, but no credit will be assigned during the pilot phase. Tim Wirth, the Under Secretary of State who headed an American delegation, called this breakthrough Berlin's "signature item."
Developing countries make essentially a moral argument for requiring more of the richer nations, and sooner. They point out that the richer nations are responsible for most of the carbon dioxide emitted so far and that their emissions per person far outweigh those of third world countries. The United States, for example, is the world's largest source of emissions. As of 1991, the nation's per capita emissions of nearly 20 metric tons a year were almost 10 times those of China.
But that is expected to change dramatically. China, with its huge coal reserves, could well become the world's largest source of emissions in 25 years, according to a new study by Yale University's Center for Environmental Law and Policy. Other developing countries are also expected to increase their share of global emissions, and the United Nations projects that without further controls, they will far surpass the richer nations' combined total some time in the next century.
The Yale study "shows that the impacts from the developing countries can no longer be ignored as they have been to date and were at Rio," said Daniel C. Esty, the director of the Yale center and a former Environmental Protection Agency official who was a member of the American negotiating team when the climate treaty was forged.
Representatives of fossil fuel and related industries, whose clients in the rich countries stand to benefit if the responsibility for reducing emissions is spread more widely, have long argued for including the developing countries. They were not thrilled at the outcome in Berlin.
The agreement reached there "gives the developing countries like China, India and Mexico a free ride," said John Shlaes, executive director of the Global Climate Coalition, an industry group. "Without substantial commitments by these emerging large emitters of greenhouse gases, there can be no meaningful climate treaty," he said.
The United States, which has taken a moderate and deliberate position on what to do about emissions after 2000, has been roundly criticized by environmentalists for what they see as a lack of leadership on the question. After Berlin, Mr. Wirth quipped, "We can come back and say, 'Ich bin ein reducer.' "
Behind everything lurks the uncertainty about what is really happening to the global climate. Scientists generally agree there is little doubt that the world is warming. The average global temperature increased by about one degree Fahrenheit in the last century, and the rise has become steeper in the last two decades. After a two-year hiatus brought about by the cooling effects of the volcanic eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines in 1991, the global average in 1994 again approached the record high of 1990, just as scientists had predicted. The trend continued in the first two months of 1995. Rising temperatures of sea surfaces and an increase in atmospheric water vapor, expected in a warming world, have also been reported lately.
But whether the warming results from rising greenhouse-gas emissions is an open question. As the Berlin meeting approached, the German Government reported that a computer modeling study by the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology in Hamburg had found a 95 percent probability that the warming had been caused by greenhouse gases. And the British delegation in Berlin circulated a similar study by that country's meteorological office which, the delegation said, "must add to our confidence" that the warming has been caused by humans at least in part.
The two studies got wide attention, but specialists in detecting the greenhouse signal amid the noise of the climate's natural variability expressed skepticism, noting among other things that the two studies had not yet been reviewed by outside scientists for publication in scientific journals.
And Dr. David J. Thomson, a mathematician at AT&T Bell Labs in Murray Hill, N.J., reported in the current issue of the journal Science that on the basis of statistical studies of the earth's annual cycle, it appeared that variation in the sun's energy output "is at most a minor factor in the increase in average temperature observed over the last century." He also found that the degree of variation between the seasons had lessened in recent decades, an effect predicted by computer models in the event of greenhouse warming.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the group of scientists advising the signers of the treaty, is reassessing the state of knowledge about global warming and plans to issue a report later this year. The climate treaty was designed to allow leeway for new action in the light of advancing scientific knowledge. So while the coming negotiations pose a new order of difficulty, they can shift into a higher gear at any time if scientists turn up clear evidence that humans are indeed changing the climate.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Projecting Carbon Emissions" shows amount of carbon emissions in millions of metric tons from 1990-2010. (Source: Department of Energy)
 
Table: "Comparing Emissions" shows amount of carbon dioxide emissions per capita in metric tons, 1991. (Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, United Nations)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); INTER-AMERICAN TREATY OF RECIPROCAL ASSISTANCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); INTER-AMERICAN TREATY OF RECIPROCAL ASSISTANCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN (GERMANY); GERMANY (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EARTH (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; TREATIES; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES EMISSIONS (94%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); MILLENNIUM (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995



268 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Asks Congress for Money to Rein In Iraq and Iran

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency has asked Congress for $19 million next year to continue covert operations to destabilize Iraq and to curb what the Administration calls Iran's expansionist ambitions, Administration officials say.
The operations -- with about $15 million to be spent against Iraq and about $4 million against Iran -- are intended to support the Clinton Administration's stated policy goal of "dual containment." 
 The policy is aimed at weakening but not specifically overthrowing Iraq's President, Saddam Hussein; keeping together an anti-Iraq coalition at the United Nations, and strangling Iran's economy as it tries to rebuild its military muscle.
But the limits of the intelligence operations in pursuing those goals is raising questions about whether the United States can accomplish some of those objectives in overt ways.
The very existence of the secret operations are a reminder that 16 years after Iran's revolution and more than four years after Iraq's defeat in the Persian Gulf war, the United States is still unable to moderate the policies of what Secretary of State Warren Christopher calls "those two rogue states."
In Iraq, for example, the United States is still struggling to win the release of two American citizens who were jailed last month after they crossed into Iraq from Kuwait.
Administration officials familiar with the secret operations against Iran and Iraq were reluctant to discuss them in detail. But they defended the programs as a way to try to influence events in countries that the United States has branded outlaw states and where it has no diplomatic presence.
"It's a risk-versus-gain calculation," said one Adminstration official familiar with the programs. "You want to be prepared to shape events if the opportunity arises."
Mark Mansfield, a spokesman for the C.I.A., declined to discuss the covert operations, saying, "As a matter of policy we do not comment on such matters."
The $4 million for Iran is to be used mainly to spread propaganda against its Islamic Government, about the same amount the C.I.A. received for anti-Iranian activities last year, officials said.
An intelligence order signed by Mr. Clinton last year defined the purpose of future covert action as "enhanced containment" through an aggressive anti-Iranian information campaign led mainly by Iranian exiles, American officials said. The operation also includes a propaganda effort to promote the American approach to Iran's trading partners.
The operation is not intended to destabilize or overthrow Iran's Government, officials said. And they said it does not finance the Iranian armed opposition group known as the People's Mujahedeen, which is based in Baghdad and receives the bulk of its money from Iraq.
"In our judgment the Iranians have not changed their policies, and so our strategy had to be strengthened," said one senior Administration official. "The pressure is there and hopefully we can build on that pressure to show that the lofty goals of their regime are not coming out in practice. We feel the money is well spent."
But it is unclear what a secret propaganda program administered by the C.I.A. can accomplish that open programs do not. The Clinton Administration's national security advisers are completing a list of options for strengthening Washington's policy toward Iran, including the introduction of a near-total trade ban against the country.
Although Iran's Government is authoritarian, the country also has a popularly elected Parliament in which lawmakers regularly accuse the Government of inefficiency, corruption and failing to fulfill its revolutionary promises.
The Iranian people have long had access to foreign news reports, especially through shortwave radios, and a new law banning satellite dishes is expected to be difficult to enforce.
Perhaps more important, even the most pro-American Iranians retain a deep distrust of the C.I.A., which fomented the 1953 coup that eventually brought Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi to power. The intelligence agency was compromised when Iranian militants seized the American Embassy in 1979 and found thousands of pages of documents about the C.I.A.'s activities in the country.
It is not known how long the C.I.A. has conducted its current operation in Iran. The C.I.A. began its covert program against Iraq in 1991 after the country was defeated in the Persian Gulf war. But the Clinton Administration scaled back the program from a high of $40 million in 1992 to less than $20 million a year after it concluded that the program had failed to weaken the Iraqi leader.
Among the opposition groups financed by the C.I.A. is the London-based Iraqi National Congress, Administration officials said.
In the past year the C.I.A. has claimed modest success in Iraq, including the hiring of Iraqi agents inside the country, the shifting of more of its money to groups inside Iraq and a number of operations in the Kurdish-controlled north.
The C.I.A.'s financing request for the Iran and Iraq operations was recently presented to the Congressional committees overseeing intelligence as part of the agency's budget request for all covert operations in 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); UNITED NATIONS (UN) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAN; UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); DESERT STORM (78%); TRENDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



269 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Some of Rich Find A Passport Lost Is A Fortune Gained

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
Each had a reason for giving up American citizenship, and each says it had nothing to do with taxes.
One man wanted to be a citizen of Israel, the land of his birth. Another was a global marketer who could live anywhere and now calls Belize his home. Still another so loved the balmy Bahamas that he preferred a Bahamian passport to an American one. 
 But each of these expatriate Americans also avoided paying millions of dollars in United States taxes.
A loophole in the tax law, one that Congressional Democrats have been trying to close, allows non-citizens to avoid taxes on capital gains and estates. That, critics point out, has permitted a handful of very wealthy Americans who have renounced their citizenship to save millions -- some say billions -- in taxes.
Reached in Nassau, Michael D. Dingman, chairman of Abex, a New Hampshire-based maker of aerospace and industrial products, said his expatriation had nothing to do with taxes.
"I decided to become a Bahamian, and you can't be a Bahamian and a U.S. citizen at the same time," Mr. Dingman said. "It's an honor to be a Bahamian citizen. They have to want you. You can't buy your way in. This is not St. Kitts. The change had nothing to do with taxes."
A half-dozen or so of the super-rich, including Mr. Dingman, have been identified over the last six months by The Wall Street Journal and Forbes magazine as among the tax expatriates: Ted Arison, founder of Carnival Cruise Lines, who now lives in Israel; John Dorrance 3d, Campbell Soup heir, who has Irish citizenship: Kenneth Dart, president of the foam cup company Dart Container, now a citizen of Belize; J. Mark Mobius, a leading international money manager, who has German citizenship and lives in Hong Kong and Singapore; Frederick Krieble, a director and former treasurer of the Hartford-based Loctite Corporation, a maker of sealants, who has moved on to the Caribbean, taking up residence in the Turks and Caicos Islands.
"Expatriation is the ultimate estate plan," said William Zabel, senior partner at Schulte, Roth & Zabel of New York, who is one of the nation's foremost authorities on trusts and estates and is author of "The Rich Die Richer -- And You Can, Too" (William Morrow, 1995). "It's not a complete solution. But if you structure it right, the very few people it affects can save a bundle."
Fewer than a thousand Americans a year give up their citizenship, most for reasons that have nothing to do with taxes. But a dozen or more of those who leave are multimillionaires. Aiming at them, President Clinton proposed an expatriation tax in his 1996 budget; the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the tax would raise $3.6 billion over the next decade.
But Republicans opposed the provision and succeeded in killing it before Congress began its spring recess last weekend. Now Democrats are eager to revive the issue, and one of them, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, introduced a revised version of the proposal last Thursday and vowed to work for its passage.
"A genuine abuse exists in this area," said Mr. Moynihan, who noted that some wealthy expatriates, while avoiding taxes, maintained families and homes in the United States by staying within a 120-day-a-year limit on vists here.
"If you've gotten your riches from America, you should pay your fair share of taxes," said Leslie B. Samuels, Assistant Secretary for tax policy at the Treasury Department. "These expatriates are really like economic Benedict Arnolds. They shouldn't have an unfair advantage over other citizens because they're super-rich."
Unlike other countries, which tax on the basis of residence, the United States taxes on the basis of citizenship. Thus, Americans are subject to United States taxation on their worldwide income. In addition, the estate of an American pays taxes at a marginal rate of up to 55 percent of the assets that the citizen owned at death.
"If you have $50 million, you could certainly potentially save a lot of their estate taxes if you aren't U.S. citizens," said Rich Kohan, director of the personal financial services group of Price Waterhouse. "That's not small change when you're talking in the neighborhood of an estate tax of 55 percent."
But Mr. Kohan said that although he had received many queries about the tax benefits of expatriation, none of his clients had decided to divest themselves of their citizenship as a way of avoiding taxes.
"It's pretty dramatic to give up your citizenship," he said. "First you have to leave the country, and then there is pretty intensive questioning about the purpose of the expatriation."
Under current law, a citizen who is even suspected of expatriating for tax reasons can still be taxed for up to 10 years. But the law is like a sieve and has "proven largely ineffective, because departing taxpayers have found ways to restructure their activities to avoid those rules, and compliance is difficult to monitor," a recent Treasury report said.
"In my case," said Mr. Dingman, who gave up his citizenship last June to live in the Bahamas, "I've been living here in one form or the other since 1964, and that's a long, long time. This is a beautiful place, it doesn't have big social problems, and you don't have big taxes. My wife and I moved here to live a little bit over five years ago, because we wanted a gentle, thoughtful, pleasant place to raise our three children."
His wife and children retained their American citizenship, which allows Mr. Dingman to travel freely into and out of the United States.
While Mr. Dingman insisted that taxes had played no role in his decision, he said he was sympathetic to those opposed to an expatriation tax.
"I'm investing money in China and the Czech Republic now," he said. "Why would I want to pay U.S. taxes on money if I invest in China? Other countries don't do that. And when I die, America says if you die within 10 years of the date you give up citizenship, you have to pay estate taxes. Since I've already paid taxes to get that money, why should my heirs pay taxes on it again?"
Tim Gallagher, director of public relations for Carnival Cruise Lines, said its founder, Mr. Arison, had given up American citizenship because he had simply wanted to re-establish citizenship in Israel, where he was born. When it was pointed out that Israel allowed for dual citizenship, Mr. Gallagher could offer no particular reason why Mr. Arison had given up his American passport.
The expatriation tax would treat departees as if they had sold all their assets at fair market value just before renouncing citizenship. Only net gain in excess of $600,000 would be taxed, and so just one or two dozen people a year would be affected. Real estate and certain pension benefits would be exempted.
After intense and acrimonious debate, the proposal died this year in a House-Senate conference on a tax bill. The Senate had passed the expatriate tax but agreed to drop it at the insistence of the House tax-writers, led by Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the Ways and Means Committee.
Now the Joint Committee on Taxation will study the issue over the next two months. After it reports in June, the issue is likely to be revived by Congress in the context of hammering out a Federal budget for the next fiscal year.
Meanwhile, Democrats and Republicans have continued squabbling over it. Some Republicans compare the tax to the kind of exorbitant exit fees that the old Soviet Union imposed on departing Jews; Democrats accuse Republicans of looking out for the rich even as they slash benefits for the poor.
Proponents and critics of the measure marshaled a slew of legal experts to testify on it this winter. They raised issues as varied as constitutional concerns, conflicts with international treaties, double taxation and the question of Cuban-Americans who wished to return to Cuba once Fidel Castro was gone.
High-priced lawyers lobbied against the expatriate tax, including former Representaive Guy Vander Jagt, a longtime Republican member of the Ways and Means Committee, who was acting on behalf of an unidentified wealthy expatriate now living in England.
The State Department held that none of the concerns were enough to bar an expatriation tax, and the minority Democrats agreed.
"This proposal," said Representative Sam M. Gibbons of Florida, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, "taxes individuals who are not fleeing economic or political repression but are attempting to shed the normal obligations of citizenship in the developed world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Dingman, chairman of a United States corporation, is among a number of wealthy Americans who have renounced their citizenship. (Andrew Aitkin for The New York Times) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (66%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (96%); BELIZE (93%); ISRAEL (91%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCHULTE ROTH & ZABEL LLP (83%); CARNIVAL CORP (66%); LOCTITE CORP (64%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (96%); BELIZE (93%); ISRAEL (91%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CITIZENSHIP; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (89%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); CRUISES (69%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (68%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (68%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



270 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Kemper Agrees To $2 Billion Takeover Led by Zurich Group

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
The Kemper Corporation, ending a yearlong effort to sell itself, said yesterday that it had agreed to be acquired by the Zurich Insurance Group and a group of American investors for $2 billion.
As an independent company, Kemper failed to produce the profit that investors hoped would result from the combination in the 1980's of a large mutual fund business, insurance companies and securities brokers. None of its businesses was stellar in its field, however, and by the 90's, Kemper was in trouble from outsized investments in junk bonds and real estate. 
 In the Zurich Insurance Group, Kemper found a buyer that could afford to pay a higher price than American suitors; the value of the Swiss franc has increased about 13 percent against the dollar since the beginning of the year.
The Swiss-led offer of $47.50 a share in cash and $2 a share in preferred stock follows the announcement last week that Kemper would sell its securities-brokerage business to management for cash and securities worth about $1.50 a share. The total price of $51 a share is considerably more than many analysts had expected Kemper could collect, but less than the offers of $55 and $60 a share made a year ago by the GE Capital Corporation, a unit of the General Electric Company.
Kemper's managers turned down GE Capital and accepted a bid last June estimated at $67 a share, or $2.96 billion, from Conseco, a Carmel, Ind., insurance holding company that was eager to expand into the mutual fund business. But the Conseco offer collapsed in November after rising interest rates reduced the attractiveness of Kemper's insurance companies and made it more expensive for Conseco to sell the junk bonds it needed to pay for the acquisition.
Shares of Kemper jumped more than 10 percent after yesterday's announcement, closing at $45.75, up $4.375, on the New York Stock Exchange. Zurich Insurance's stock, which trades in Switzerland, fell about 2 percent.
Zurich Insurance, one of the world's largest companies in its field, expects to gain expertise from Kemper in the mutual fund and life insurance businesses. The company also expects that its own financial strength will help the Kemper life insurance companies grow more rapidly.
"We want to bring our customers more advanced products," said Rolf Hueppi, chief executive of Zurich Insurance, "and the U.S. market is the most advanced in product design." He noted that banks had dominated European sales of mutual funds, and that Kemper's mutual fund business, with $42 billion in assets, was much larger than the equivalent businesses already owned by Zurich Insurance in Europe and Australia.
The mutual fund business of Kemper has lagged behind many of its competitors in growth, but with $42 billion of assets, it is the 11th-largest fund group in the country. Its asset-management group, which includes the mutual funds, earned about $50 million in 1994, down from $99 million in 1993.
The Kemper acquisition also furthers Zurich's goal of diversifying its business away from increasingly risky property and liability insurance, and toward life insurance, particularly life insurance policies and annuities that are sold as investments. Zurich will be a 51 percent owner of the two insurers, which collected more than $768 million of premiums last year and made $90 million.
The remaining 49 percent of the life insurance companies will be owned by Insurance Partners, Zurich's partner in the Kemper purchase. Members of the investment group include Keystone Inc., formerly known as the Robert M. Bass Group, the Chase Manhattan Corporation and Centre Reinsurance Holdings, a subsidiary of Zurich.
Insurance Partners is also Zurich's partner in the proposed purchase of Home Holdings, a property and liability insurance company controlled by Trygg Hansa, a Swedish insurance company.
Kemper's life insurance group is more than 30 times the size of the fledgling Zurich Life Insurance Company, whose business will be folded into the Kemper companies. Kemper Investors Life Insurance, with assets of $6.9 billion, sells annuities and life insurance through securities firms like Merrill Lynch and Raymond James, while the Federal Kemper Life Assurance Company sells through insurance agents.
Analysts at rating agencies agreed that the acquisition by Zurich was likely to make the Kemper insurance companies stronger, but could weaken Zurich. Officials at Zurich declined to say how the purchase price would be divided between Zurich and Insurance Partners, but said Zurich's share would be paid from internal funds, without borrowing or issuing new securities.
Standard & Poor's analysts said Zurich's top-notch claims-paying rating of AAA was under review because the Kemper and Home acquisitions "may indicate a more aggressive growth strategy as well as a greater propensity to use acquisitions as its vehicle for growth." But at worst, S.& P. said, it did not expect Zurich's rating to fall more than one notch, to AA+.
Larry Mayewski, a senior vice president at the A. M. Best Company, a rating firm in Oldwick, N.J., said that "barring unforeseen problems our view is that the merger has positive implications" for the ratings of the Kemper companies. Best now rates those companies A-, the third highest of its 15 ratings, but one notch below the rating that Mr. Hueppi said the companies needed to compete with other insurers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (93%); GEC (LSE) (93%); GE (SWX) (93%); GE (NYSE) (93%); KMPR (NYSE) (93%); ZURN (SWX) (84%); CNO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: KEMPER CORP; ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP; INSURANCE PARTNERS LP GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (93%); KEMPER CORP (93%); ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (84%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: KEMPER CORP; ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP; INSURANCE PARTNERS LP ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); UNITED STATES (54%); INDIANA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES INSURANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BUSINESS OWNERS INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



271 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: New Prisons Cast Shadow Over Higher Education

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif.

 BODY:
The hulking shape of San Quentin is not quite visible from the heights of the University of California campus on the other side of San Francisco Bay. But the prison has begun to loom ominously in the minds of professors and students here as they have come to believe that California's binge of prison building is being financed at the expense of the state's proud public university system.
This year, for the first time, California will spend more on prisons than for its two university systems, the University of California and the California state universities, according to Geoffrey Long, the chief consultant to the State Assembly's Budget Committee. 
 It is the culmination of a trend that has seen spending on prisons climb to 9.9 percent of the budget this year, from 2 percent in 1980, while spending on higher education has shrunk to 9.5 percent from 12.6 percent in 1980. In the last 15 years, the number of inmates in California prisons has increased from 23,511 to 126,140, and the state has built 17 new prisons, the largest prison construction program in the nation's history, said Franklin Zimring, director of the Earl Warren Legal Institute at Berkeley.
With California's tough new "three strikes and you're out" law beginning to take effect, spending on prisons is expected to increase even more rapidly. The state estimates that with the three-strikes law it will need 15 more prisons by the year 2000, at a cost of $4.5 billion, just to stay at the current 182 percent of capacity, said Craig Brown, the under secretary of the Youth and Adult Correctional Agency.
A Rand Corporation study has projected that if the three-strikes law is fully implemented, by the year 2002 the Department of Corrections will consume 18 percent of the state budget, with only 1 percent left for universities. The new law mandates a prison sentence of 25 years to life for third-time offenders.
A spokesman for Gov. Pete Wilson, an ardent supporter of prison construction and the three-strikes law, blamed California's economic slump, which has lowered state revenue, for the drop in spending on higher education. But the spokesman, Paul Kranhold, said that within budgetary limits "the Governor makes no apologies for making public safety a top priority."
The clash between spending for prisons and education is taking place in many states around the country.
"Higher education is the prime cash cow for state budgets," said Steven D. Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States, an Albany-based research arm of the State University of New York that studies state programs and finances. "There are few patterns that are universal, but this comes as close to being universal as any in the 1990's."
In a survey of spending from 1990 to 1993 in six states, including California, Mr. Gold found the same "shift in resources, from the loser, higher education, to the winner, corrections." The other states were Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, Michigan and Minnesota. The results are to be published this month in "The Fiscal Crisis of the States" (Georgetown University Press).
Under Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed new budget for New York, spending for higher education will be cut; spending for prisons is the only part of the budget that is being spared, Mr. Gold said.
"The governors are making a choice, corrections uber alles," Mr. Gold said. "They think that's what the public wants. But the public doesn't understand the fiscal price tag that is hidden," which is less higher education and, ultimately, a less highly trained work force.
Public universities are a particularly convenient target, he said, because "if you substitute tuition increases for state tax dollars, it cushions the blow."
Malcolm Feeley, a professor of law and associate dean of the Boalt Hall School of Law at Berkeley, called the tradeoff shortsighted. "Silicon Valley and California's big defense industry didn't just happen because of the warm weather," he said. "They were supported by a world-class public education system that was practically free."
Many of Berkeley's faculty members believe there is a direct connection between the increase in spending for prisons and the decrease in support for the state's universities because of California's tightly restricted budgetary system. Proposition 13, established by a referendum approved by the state's voters in 1978, requires that state income taxes cannot be raised without a two-thirds vote of the Legislature.
Another referendum, passed in 1988, fixed the amount the state must spend for public education from kindergarten through community college. And Federal mandates have set spending levels for other programs, including Medicare.
These laws have resulted in prisons and higher education competing for an ever-shrinking piece of the budget pie.
Mr. Kranhold, the spokesman for Governor Wilson, said that as California's economy improved, the Governor would put more money into the universities. He added that while annual student fees to attend the University of California have risen several hundred percent in the last decade, they are still only $4,111, a bargain price for an education at a great university.
Mr. Kranhold also said that the budgetary process is too complex to trace the cutbacks in California's funds for higher education directly to the increase in spending for prisons. "The correlation is just not that direct," he said. "I don't think there is a relationship."
But Mr. Gold, of the Center for the Study of the States, said, "In this case, where one has been shrinking and the other has been growing and the overall state budget has not grown, the arithmetic tells the tale."
A few states have started trying to control prison construction costs. Last October, for example, North Carolina began an experiment under which judges balance prison sentences with available cells, making the punishment fit the state budget.
According to Rob Lubitz, the executive director of the North Carolina Sentencing Commission, the state acted after finding that even though it had spent $550 million on building new prisons since 1985, it still had to release many inmates early because legislators kept introducing tough sentencing bills.
There has been relatively little public debate about the cost of tougher sentencing in California. The state's legislators, spurred by a wave of widely publicized murders, have approved 1,100 new anti-crime laws in the last 15 years, topped by the three-strikes law last year.
But the same voters who have demanded tougher justice have repeatedly turned down Governor Wilson's requests for billions of dollars in state bonds for new prisons over the last two years.
In his budget for the next fiscal year, Mr. Wilson is asking the Legislature to approve the sale of $2 billion in lease revenue bonds for prison construction. Unlike general obligation bonds, lease revenue bonds are not subject to voter approval and carry a higher interest rate.
The legislators rejected a similar request last year. But even if they now agreed to the bonds, it is unlikely that the corrections agency could build all the prisons in the time needed, according to an estimate by Elizabeth Hill, head of the Legislative Analyst's Office, the Legislature's nonpartisan research arm. It takes four years to plan and build a new prison, she said.
As an emergency measure, the Governor is asking for $167 million to provide new beds in some older prisons, including San Quentin.
In the long run, Mr. Long said, overcrowding in the state's prisons may become so bad that the Federal courts will take them over. Other experts predict that the three-strikes law is so costly it will never be put into effect completely.
That may be the good news in a state where, according to corrections agency predictions, there will be 401,000 convicts by the year 2027, when the prison population peaks --more than there are now in all of Western Europe, Australia, Canada, Japan and New Zealand combined.
Tom Hayden, a Democratic State Senator from Santa Monica, said he believed California's prison-building binge was "another Vietnam moral quagmire in the making, only worse." In Vietnam, he said, "at least you could withdraw."

GRAPHIC: Photo: San Quentin Prison, with the Berkeley Hills in the distance. Some people say California is in the midst of a prison-building binge that is being financed at the expense of the state's university system. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "LEDGER: Comparing Corrections and Education"
 Gov. Pete Wilson's proposed budget for 1995-96 would allocate $4 billion for spending on the University of Califonia and the Califonia State University systems. Geoffrey Long, chief consultant to the Assembly Budget Committee, said that for the first time, spending on prisons exceeds that on higher education. Graph tracks spending on higher education (excluding spending on community colleges) and correcctions for the fiscal years running from 1980-81 through 1995-96. (Source: California Governor's office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA RAND CORP (65%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES PRISONS (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); BUDGETS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); TRENDS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); HISTORY (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (69%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX BEN NELSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



272 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gives Up Right to Control Drug Prices

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
The National Institutes of Health today relinquished its right to require "reasonable pricing" on drugs and other products developed in cooperation between the Government and industry. The pricing policy had been opposed by business interests since it was imposed six years ago.
Dr. Harold Varmus, director of the institutes, said the research agency would give up the option to review the introductory price of products developed from basic research sponsored by the Government. The policy was adopted in 1989 in response to criticism that drugs developed with substantial Government help were being marketed at excessive prices. 
 Dr. Varmus said reviews of the policy indicated that the pricing clause had driven industry away from many collaborations with N.I.H. scientists that could have benefited the public. "Eliminating the clause will promote research that can enhance the health of the American people," he said.
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, which campaigned against the pricing clause, praised the decision and said it removed a significant stumbling block for cooperation between industry and the institutes, the main Federal agency conducting and sponsoring biomedical research.
Carl B. Feldbaum, president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, called the decision "a clear victory for patients awaiting new treatments and cures, and a major step forward for biomedical progress."
James Love, an economist with the Center for Study of Responsive Law, a group founded by the consumer advocate Ralph Nader, said the decision abandoned efforts to protect consumers and taxpayers, and opened the door to high prices for pharmaceuticals developed through substantial Government investment.
"Under today's actions, a drug company will be able to charge any conceivable price for any drug, no matter how small the private sector's role in the development of the drug," Mr. Love said, "and no matter how comprehensive and complete the Government's role in the drug's development."
Dr. Varmus said the pricing clause would be discontinued for Cooperative Research and Development Agreements, as well as Exclusive Licensing Agreements, because it discouraged industry participation in these programs. Not having more cooperative work with industry denied Government scientists access to research materials and the scientific expertise of researchers working for private companies, he said.
Under the first agreement, a Creda, a company or another organization may provide equipment, staff, services and money to support research with Government scientists in return for an exclusive license option to rights on a resulting invention. Under the second, alternatively, the Government can enter exclusive license agreements with a company to commercialize new technology developed solely at Federal laboratories.
The Public Health Service, the parent agency of the N.I.H., adopted the pricing policy because of Congressional and public criticism of the pricing of the anti-AIDS drug AZT in 1987. Although scientists of the National Cancer Institute did much of the work to develop the drug, the pharmaceutical company, Burroughs Wellcome, that marketed the product initially priced AZT so that it would cost each patient $8,000 to $10,000 a year.
Representative Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who held several hearings on the prices of drugs developed with Government help, said taxpayers spend more than $10 billion annually on medical research and deserve a fair return on that investment. Mr. Wyden has criticized the high prices charged by industry for a number of drugs developed after substantial Government work, asserting that taxpayers were forced to pay twice for their medicines -- through their taxes and again at the pharmacy.
But Mr. Wyden struck a more conciliatory tone about the policy change today, saying he had been briefed on it last week by Dr. Varmus. Mr. Wyden said in an interview that it was important for the taxpayers to benefit from their investment in research, and that he would wait and see if the lack of price controls would benefit consumers through the development of numerous new products, as industry has promised.
He said he had suggested that the N.I.H. develop a set of rules for negotiating with industry on new agreements that would assure the public retained its rights to co-ownership and royalties from the product of government-backed research.
"There's a chance the taxpayers will get fleeced, but we will see what happens," Mr. Wyden said. "If I see that these new partnerships between the Government and private companies are taking consumers for a ride, we'll fight hard to turn it around. The burden of proof has shifted to the Government and industry."
Asked if the change in policy reflected the anti-regulatory mood of the new Republican Congress, Mr. Wyden said everyone was trying to be more flexible these days. "No one is oblivious to the political climate," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (55%); CENTER FOR STUDY OF RESPONSIVE LAW (54%); CENTER FOR STUDY OF RESPONSIVE LAW (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (55%); CENTER FOR STUDY OF RESPONSIVE LAW (54%); CENTER FOR STUDY OF RESPONSIVE LAW (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (88%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); AIDS & HIV (73%); CANCER (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E RALPH NADER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



273 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
2 Paper Companies' Profits Get Cool Investor Response

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Strong earnings from the International Paper Company and the Weyerhaeuser Company received a cool response yesterday from investors worried that the good times will soon be over.
On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of International Paper fell 37.5 cents, to $75.75, and shares of Weyerhaeuser fell 25 cents, to $39.75. The strong earnings may be making investors nervous that the industry's three-quarter-old surge is ending, said Kathryn McAuley, a forest products analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman. "I get the sense that some portfolio managers are looking for the door," she said. 
 For five years, paper industry earnings fell or were unchanged as manufacturing capacity exceeded demand for paper products. Last year's third-quarter earnings started to benefit from higher paper prices as demand outstripped manufacturing capacity.
Wood products represent the only weak link in forest products companies' earnings so far, analysts said.
International Paper said yesterday that it earned $246 million, or $1.95 a share, in the first quarter, compared with $1 million, or 1 cent a share, in the comparable quarter a year earlier, when the company took a charge of $75 million for an accounting change. Without the charge, the earnings a year earlier would have been $76 million, or 61 cents a share. For the most recent quarter, which ended on March 31, revenues rose 32 percent, to $4.49 billion from $3.41 billion.
The earnings surpassed Wall Street expectations of $1.77 a share, according to a survey of analysts by Zacks Investment Research.
"I believe we're in the beginning stages of what should be a sustained period of favorable markets worldwide," said John A. Georges, the chairman and chief executive of International Paper, which is based in Purchase, N.Y.
Continued growth in economies around the world and limited additions to manufacturing capacity should add up to "a very optimistic view of the supply-and-demand balance this industry should experience for several years to come," he said.
Weyerhaeuser, based in Tacoma, Wash., reported first-quarter earnings of $1 a share yesterday, matching Wall Street's expectations.
Revenue rose 15 percent, to $2.75 billion from $2.39 billion.
"The results clearly show the strength of the balance of our business portfolio," said the company's president, John Creighton Jr. "We are confident that a record quarter will be followed by a record year."
The company's operating profit from pulp, paper and packaging division jumped to $210 million, from $5 million a year earlier, as prices continued to rise.
Operating profit from Weyerhaeuser's timberlands and wood products business fell 16 percent, to $239 million from $283 million, amid lower domestic wood prices. "Overall performance remains strong due to continued strength in export markets," the company said.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY,N)"

Qtr. to Mar. 26	1995	1994	%Ch	Sales	2,745,032,000	2,385,764,000	+15	Net inc.	206,623,000	126,561,000	+63	Sh. earn	1.00	.62	 	Sh. out.	205,628,000	205,430,000	 	
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$39.75
Down 25
 
"International Paper (IP,N)"

Qtr. to Mar. 31	1995	1994	%Ch	Sales	4,500,000,000	3,400,000,000	+32.4	Net inc.	246,000,000	b1,000,000	 	Sh. earn	1.95	.01	 	Sh. out.	126,400,000	124,200,000	 	
 
b-Reflected the income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change of $76 million, or 61 cents a share, which included an after-tax gain of $4 million, or 3 cents a share, of additional earnings for the current-year effect of a change in accounting for start-up costs.
Regarding the year-ago first quarter, effective Jan. 1, 1994, a pretax charge of $125 million ($75 million after taxes, or 60 cents a share) was recorded as the cumulative effect of the change in accounting for start-up costs. The accounting change for start-up costs also resulted in additional operating earnings for the 1994 full year of $17 million ($10 million after taxes, or 8 cents a share) for a net after-tax impact of $65 million, or 52 cents a share. Quarterly earnings were restated to reflect the cumulative effect charge and the additional current-year earnings.
Sales are net sales.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$75.75
Down 37.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: WY (NYSE) (96%); IP (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (96%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (96%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (96%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (96%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (52%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: WEYERHAEUSER CO; INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO WEYERHAEUSER CO (96%); INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEYERHAEUSER CO; INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); WASHINGTON, USA (52%); TACOMA, WA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); PAPER & PACKAGING (92%); PAPER MFG (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



274 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IS SEEKING TO PAY PAKISTANIS FOR BLOCKED ARMS

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
President Clinton vowed today to work with Congress to find a way to compensate Pakistan for the purchase of more than $1 billion of military equipment that it has paid for but that has been held up by law for five years in a dispute over that country's nuclear program.
"I don't think it's right for us to keep the money and the equipment," Mr. Clinton said after a meeting at the White House with the Pakistani Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto, who has demanded that the United States refund the money or deliver the equipment, including 28 F-16 jet fighters. "That is not right, and I am going to try to find a resolution to it." 
 "Your country has been a good partner, and more importantly, has stood for democracy and opportunity and moderation," Mr. Clinton said in a news conference with Ms. Bhutto in the White House foyer. "The future of the entire part of the world where Pakistan is depends in some large measure on Pakistan's success, so we want to make progress on this."
In her first working visit to Washington since her return to power in 1993, and the first by a Pakistani leader since the end of the cold war, Ms. Bhutto tried to emphasize her country's long alliance with the United States, its willingness to help fight international terrorism and its place as a mainstream Islamic state in the face of more militant alternatives.
Mr. Clinton's strong language about the disputed equipment was an acknowledgment that his Administration values Ms. Bhutto's efforts. But he also made clear that he did not intend to seek outright repeal of the Pressler Amendment. The measure, named after its Republican sponsor, Senator Larry Pressler of South Dakota, has barred direct economic aid and sales of military equipment to Pakistan since 1990, when the Bush Administration was unable to certify that Pakistan did not have a nuclear device.
Instead, Mr. Clinton said, "I intend to ask Congress to show some flexibility in the Pressler Amendment so that we can have some economic and military cooperation."
Senior Administration officials said later that the options could range from new support for international peacekeeping and efforts against terrorism and drug trafficking, to United States training for Pakistani troops, to seeking a waiver of the $50,000 annual storage fee that Pakistan now pays for each of the jets, which are now in Arizona.
Other possibilities include the return of spare parts and equipment sent to the United States for repair before the sanctions were invoked, or sale of the planes to a third country. But that last option is tricky, because the planes' technology is already outdated enough that they would be unlikely to bring the full price.
"Now under the law, we can't give up the equipment," Mr. Clinton said. "So I intend to consult with the Congress on that and see what we can do."
In essence, officials said, Mr. Clinton wants to find a way to preserve the aims of the Pressler Amendment -- curbing the spread of nuclear weapons in the region -- while softening what he believes have been its unfair effects on a longtime ally, effects that have left the United States with even less leverage over Pakistan's nuclear program.
But prospects on Capitol Hill for any changes are mixed. The United States has long since dispensed the money for the planes to the contractors that built them, and a new appropriation of such magnitude is highly unlikely in a climate in which calls for cutbacks in foreign aid are the order of the day.
Some Republicans support a one-time exemption that would allow resolution of the equipment dispute, but Senator Pressler himself opposes any change.
"If the Administration wanted to lead the charge, I think they could probably repeal the amendment," Mr. Pressler said in a telephone interview. "I wouldn't be with them, but if that's what they feel, that's what they should do, though it would fly in the face of everything they've said about nuclear proliferation."
In the meantime, Mr. Pressler said, he would oppose half measures, like waiving storage fees or new training assistance. "I think anything like that is going to be misleading the Pakistanis and just make them madder in the end," he said. "I support keeping it the way it is and waiting for the Pakistanis to make a move."
Ms. Bhutto, who is under considerable political pressure at home to show results from her generally friendly posture toward Washington, and who has pressed the question of the planes aggressively on Capitol Hill during her weeklong visit, seized on Mr. Clinton's words.
"I am encouraged by my discussions with the President this morning and the understanding that he has shown for Pakistan's position," the Prime Minister said. "I welcome the Clinton Administration's decision to work with Congress to revise the Pressler Amendment."
She denied that Pakistan had any nuclear weapons, but acknowledged the official United States position that it would quickly be able to assemble one. Pakistan refuses to scrap its nuclear program unless India does, and the issue has bedeviled the region for years.
Both leaders said they had also discussed the long-running dispute between India and Pakistan over control of the Kashmir territory along their borders, and Mr. Clinton repeated the United States's willingness to help mediate the dispute, but only if welcomed by India.
"But the fact of the matter is right now, while Pakistan would like that, India would not," said Robin Raphel, the Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian affairs. "And so in a practical sense, there's nothing further we can do in that way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and President Clinton answered questions on Pakistan's arms purchase. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (96%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (60%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (60%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (96%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); PEACEKEEPING (69%); RELIGION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: BHUTTO, BENAZIR (PRIME MIN); PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



275 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Training Found a Big Factor in Child Care

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
The quality of care that preschool children receive both in day-care centers and in family day care can be significantly improved with training and tighter limits on the number of children each adult looks after, according to two new studies made public yesterday.
The studies, by the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit research group in New York, examined 150 licensed care centers in Florida and 130 family care homes in three states. 
 "Parents have been concerned about several recent studies showing that the quality of early care that children receive is uneven at best and, for really young children, frightening," said Ellen Galinsky, co-president of the Families and Work Institute. "So we wanted to address the question of what can be done to quality. When you do this kind of research, you never know what, if anything, you'll find. We weren't sure that a modest effort, like 16 hours of training, would have noticeable effects on kids' development. We were pleasantly surprised that it did."
The study was based on visits to care centers before and after Florida passed legislation tightening staffing requirements. As of October 1992, the state required 1 adult for every 4 babies under a year old, as against 1 for every 6 previously. Moreover, the new standard required 1 adult for every 6 toddlers aged 1 to 2, as against 1 for every 8 toddlers previously.
The study found that with the new standards, children engaged in more complex play, both with objects and with one another, had better language skills, were more securely attached to their teachers and had fewer behavior problems.
The study also found that, with the smaller groups, teachers were less likely to respond to a child's misbehavior with such "negative management styles" as yelling, scolding, threatening, being sarcastic, smacking or hitting. In some programs, such responses were reduced by 75 percent.
Florida legislation that goes into effect in July also requires that day-care centers have 1 staff person with formal child development training for every 20 children. The Families and Work researchers plan to revisit the centers they studied after that requirement is in place.
The new child-care studies come at a time when Congress is considering legislation that would eliminate money for improving the quality of child care and insuring that all providers receiving public dollars meet minimum health and safety standards. Florida used some of that money to support its laws, offering scholarships for child care workers to receive training.
For some Democrats in the Senate, the studies' findings provided an opportunity to protest the legislation the House of Representatives passed last month to cut off such financing.
"The reports demonstrate that the funds made available through the Child Care and Development Block Grant for improving the quality of child care are making a positive difference in children's lives," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. "Unfortunately, the welfare reform bill passed by the House of Representatives eliminates these quality improvement funds as well as the minimal health and safety requirements."
While day-care centers are becoming an increasingly popular form of care for preschool children, the most common arrangement for young children whose mothers are employed is being looked after in someone's home.
According to the Urban Institute's 1990 National Child Care Study, 33 percent of preschool children with employed mothers are in such family day care -- 13 percent with a relative and 20 percent with a non-relative. Usually, family day care costs less than a formal day-care center.
The study on family day care examined the effects of at least 16 hours of training on 130 family day-care workers in Dallas, Charlotte, N.C., and the San Fernando Valley in California. They were visited before and after the training, and compared with 112 workers in the same communities who did not take part in training.
The report found that after the workers were trained in skills like discipline and safety, the children in their care became more engaged in activities and spent less time wandering aimlessly. It also found that the children behaved in ways indicating that they felt more securely attached to those caring for them.
The study also found that after the training, 97 percent of the care workers said they reported the income they made from giving care on their tax returns, as against only 70 percent who said they did before the training.
The quality of care at two of the three sites increased after the training, the study found, but at the third site, which had the highest quality rating before training, there was no statistically significant change. The study did not identify which sites improved and which one did not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FAMILIES AND WORK INSTITUTE CHILD CARE&DEVELOPMENT (72%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (91%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES AND WORK INSTITUTE FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (91%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE; RESEARCH; DAY CARE CENTERS CHILDREN (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR TED KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



276 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler and Ford Lower '92 Expectations

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 11

 BODY:
Disappointed by the slow pace of sales in the first quarter, the Chrysler Corporation and the Ford Motor Company said today that they had lowered their expectations and were forecasting only modest growth in industry sales in the United States this year.
Citing higher interest rates as a cause, both companies brought their estimates in line with that of the General Motors Corporation, which projected sales of 15.6 million cars and light and heavy trucks this year, up narrowly from 1994 sales of 15.4 million. 
 Robert J. Eaton, Chrysler's chairman and chief executive, told a group of auto stock analysts in New York today that the company had cut its forecast for 1995 by 300,000 vehicles, to 15.5 million. It reduced its 1996 estimate by 500,000 vehicles, to 15.8 million from 16.3 million vehicles.
It was the third time in three months that Chrysler had cut its estimates, which had been far higher than the other companies'.
Joel Pitcoff, Ford's market analysis manager, said Ford had also recently reduced its 1995 sales projection, estimating sales of 15.5 million to 15.6 million vehicles, from 15.8 million to 15.9 million vehicles. Ford expects sales of trucks to set a record this year, but sales of cars to slip below last year's level.
Mr. Pitcoff said that interest rates were deterring some buyers, and others appeared to be postponing purchases in hopes that auto makers would add rebates and other incentives. Incentives have risen steadily this quarter.
During the first quarter of 1994, cars and trucks sold at an annualized rate of 15.8 million, well ahead of sales for the year as a whole. During the first quarter of 1995, the sales rate was 15.2 million. Mr. Pitcoff predicted that the new incentives would raise the selling rate for each of the next three quarters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES ROBERT J EATON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



277 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: A String of Disasters Leaves Japanese on Edge

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 11

 BODY:
The most shocking drama to reach Japan in years has its audience riveted, in part because of the possibility of an even scarier sequel coming soon.
It began last month with the nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway system, which killed 11 people and injured more than 5,000, and it is unfolding on streets and television screens around Japan. The case has become the national obsession. 
 A lawyer found out just how preoccupied the police were when she went to a police station the other day to report the date rape of a client. "They said they were too busy with the nerve gas incident," said the lawyer, Kazue Akita.
In American terms, it is as if the search of O. J. Simpson's estate had turned up not just a bloody glove but also biological warfare supplies, a suspected machine-gun factory, hundreds of tons of chemicals to make nerve gas and nitroglycerine, and a huge Russian military helicopter that would fit nicely in any air force.
The daily searches of Aum Shinrikyo, the religious sect suspected of involvement in the nerve gas attack, have turned up all of these things. And there is the titillation of what the authorities did not find: the sect's leaders, two small helicopters that the group also owns and quantities of sarin nerve gas that the police suspect may have already been prepared.
Mainichi Shimbun, a major Japanese newspaper, reported today that the police had examined the quantities of chemicals purchased by Aum and the quantities recovered in the raids of its warehouses. Unaccounted for are enough chemicals to make 5.6 tons of sarin, theoretically enough nerve gas to kill many millions of people.
Aum leaders vigorously deny that they did anything wrong, asserting that it is they who are the victims of nerve gas poisoning by the United States military. They deny that they were manufacturing guns and say they were stockpiling chemicals mainly to help agriculture recover from an apocalypse that they expect within the next few years.
The drama of the nerve gas attack, and the possibility of others, dominates the nation's newspapers and television shows, not to mention conversations in offices, bars and communal baths.
Kazuyoshi Nishikura, an editor at Kyodo News Service, said the public fascination with the news about Aum was even greater than the interest in the slow death of Emperor Hirohito six years ago. The nerve gas attack and its aftermath constitute one of the dominant news stories of the postwar era, he said.
"All the premises that we used to work on are now falling apart," Mr. Nishikura said.
The nerve gas attack, as Mr. Nishikura noted, was a particularly serious blow to the Japanese psyche because it came as part of a string of events that collectively created fundamental new uncertainties about the future.
In January an earthquake devastated the western city of Kobe, killing more than 5,000 people and reminding Japanese of their vulnerability to natural disaster. Then in the last few weeks the yen has been surging to new postwar highs, making Japanese products less competitive abroad and threatening companies and jobs in the export sector.
Now, with the nerve gas attack, people no longer feel safe in the streets that were once famed for their safety day or night.
A senior newspaper editor found that when he went out on the street with sunglasses and a baseball cap that obscured his face, taxis refused to stop for him. Subways are now halted for emergency examinations when someone finds a liquid spilled on the floor.
When two Japanese women met at a shop and found that they were both artists, they exchanged phone numbers and decided to get together. But one woman asked the other, "You're not a member of a religious cult, are you?"
Even among foreigners, there are special apprehensions these days. Americans are on edge because the guru of Aum, Shoko Asahara, has denounced the United States with special ferocity.
A few days ago, a 20-year-old American woman, the daughter of an American Embassy employee, was suddenly assaulted by three men in a nice neighborhood of Tokyo. There is no evidence that the attack was connected with the nerve gas incident or with any religious cult, but it prompted a round of nervous cable traffic and some jitters among diplomats.
"There's all kinds of speculation," a diplomat said. "We don't know who did it or what it means."
Hiroyoshi Ishikawa, a social psychologist at Seijo University in Tokyo, said, "In the depths of this, we can find some basic anxieties of the Japanese people."
Professor Ishikawa said the anxiety had originated with the collapse of the "bubble economy" several years ago and was particularly pronounced among young people, who often have no clear image of what the future holds for them.
The public fascination with Aum is partly a function of its professionalism and boldness in challenging the authorities. The cult was organized in Government ministries, and news reports suggest that it was trying to acquire not just nerve gas and biological weapons, but also precision equipment to manufacture AK-47 submachine guns.
Even the skill with which Aum's executives have evaded police raids is startling. Today the police found a bungalow that they say they believe was used by Takeshi Matsumoto, an Aum leader who is wanted in the kidnapping of a public notary this year.
In the bungalow, the police found medical equipment used to perform plastic surgery, along with a woman's wig and a pair of very large women's shoes. The police reportedly also found fingerprints of an Aum doctor who trained at one of the country's best medical schools and later worked at a hospital in Detroit.
So now there is widespread speculation that Mr. Matsumoto may have a new face and women's clothing, making him harder than ever to find.
There has also been amazement at the skill involved in the shooting of Japan's top law enforcement official on March 30. Aum has denied involvement in that shooting, and organized crime groups are also under suspicion, but in any case the gunman was apparently a first-rate marksman.
There is speculation that the gunman was a professional hit man, perhaps a Russian. Japanese news organizations reported tonight that the bullets were unusual American-made hollow-points with a special coating to increase the damage they cause.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police checked bags at a baseball game at the Tokyo Dome last week as a security measure after the nerve gas attack in the subway. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (78%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: AUM SHINRIKYO (RELIGIOUS CULT) AUM SHINRIKYO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AUM SHINRIKYO (RELIGIOUS CULT) AUM SHINRIKYO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOBE (JAPAN); JAPAN; TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); KINKI, JAPAN (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; EARTHQUAKES; POISON GASES; SARIN (NERVE GAS); SUBWAYS CULTS & SECTS (91%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); EARTHQUAKES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); POISONINGS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); AIR FORCES (73%); SMALL ARMS MFG (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); HELICOPTERS (67%); BASEBALL (59%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D ORENTHAL JAMES 'O J' SIMPSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



278 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Hold the Line, Calming Jitters About Inflation

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
In an unexpectedly benign report, Government figures showed today that inflation vanished at the producer level in March, as both energy and food prices turned down.
Not only was the price of finished products unchanged for the month, constituting the best performance since October, but goods at earlier stages of production also settled back to a pace that calmed jitters that had been developing from sharp price increases since late last year. March marked the end of the fourth year of economic recovery and expansion following the 1990-91 recession. 
 "The United States still does not have any serious inflationary problem," said Lacy Hunt, chief economist at HSBC Holdings in New York. "There's an ample supply of goods and services and companies keep finding ways to make productivity gains."
With the erratic energy and food components removed, the Producer Price Index for finished goods edged up just one-tenth of 1 percent in March, also the skimpiest rise in five months.
Today's figures, if followed on Wednesday by similarly restrained consumer prices, which also reflect the price of services, would seem to further reduce the possibility that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates any time soon, analysts said. Indeed, a growing number of economists are coming to believe that in light of the significant slowing of the economy that has become evident in recent weeks, the Fed's next move might as likely be to cut rates as to raise them.
Yet the economy still shows signs of vigor, with store sales last week climbing 10 percent above those of the comparable 1994 week, which followed Easter, according to the Johnson Redbook tabulation. The gain was adjusted for one less shopping day last year.
The Labor Department's price figures showed finished goods unchanged in March despite flooding in California that curbed production of fruit and vegetables and despite the dollar's decline against the Japanese yen and the German mark, which might have allowed competing American producers to raise prices. Imported goods themselves are not included in the index.
In fact, the price of passenger cars fell four-tenths of 1 percent, the report showed, the second straight decline. Analysts noted that car sales had softened here and that Detroit had suffered also from the economic crisis in Mexico, where peso customers face huge price increases and where dealers are having great difficulty financing inventories.
In all, according to analysts at S. G. Warburg, 31 finished goods rose by more than one-tenth of 1 percent last month, while 20 fell that much and 23 were essentially unchanged. In February, 50 items rose significantly and only 12 declined.
In addition to cars, the March report showed prices fell 2.1 percent for gasoline, 4.8 percent for roasted coffee, 4.3 percent for pork and nine-tenths of 1 percent for computers. Capital equipment, which accounts for nearly one-quarter of the index, edged down one-tenth of 1 percent.
Moving higher were fresh and dry vegetables (5.7 percent), light trucks (three-tenths of 1 percent), cosmetics (2.5 percent), tires and tubes (2.1 percent) and home heating oil (seven-tenths of 1 percent, following a 6.5 percent February jump).
But at least as impressive as the tabluation of zero inflation for finished goods was a rise of just three- tenths of 1 percent for items at the intermediate stage of production, such as lumber and copper and brass mill shapes.
"The best news is that intermediate goods prices seemed to have given us a break," said L. Douglas Lee, an economist at NatWest Washington Analysis here. Intermediate items had risen an average of eight-tenths of 1 percent a month for November through February.
Without food and energy, the intermediate "core" rose four-tenths of 1 percent in March after 1 percent surges in both January and February, the department also said.
Similarly, crude materials sank 1.3 percent last month after increases of that size in the preceding two months as prices of raw foods and feeds fell 2.4 percent and crude energy fell 1.6 percent.
"There's a lot more moving through the pipeline than materials," said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Bank in Pittsburgh. "Goods get blended with labor costs," which have been restrained.
But basic industrial materials, though slowing, climbed five-tenths of 1 percent in March to bring the first quarter's rise to an annual pace of 21.1 percent, not much below the 26.7 percent pace from September through December.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Producer Prices" shows the core index, which excludes food and energy, and the index of crude goods excluding food and energy from '93-'95. (Soruce: Datastream) (pg. D1); "Producer Prices" shows index of finished goods prices from Oct. '93-March '95. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 0005 (HKSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; INTEREST RATES; PRICES; CREDIT PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; HUNT, LACY

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



279 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Police Squad Pursues North Bergen Graffiti Vandals

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: NORTH BERGEN, N.J., April 11

 BODY:
The undercover anti-graffiti police have already caught "SET2," age 11; "AMOS," age 17, and "MYSTAFO," age 12.
Now the police patrol is looking hard, day and night, for "FLEX," "EVE" and "PYRO," as well as the people behind scores of illegible and illegal scrawls that have popped up on businesses, homes and playground structures since last fall. 
 If they are caught and they are over age 18, they face 10 days in jail or 80 hours of community service and a fine of at least $250, no exceptions or excuses. Penalties for a second offense are at least 10 days in jail and a fine of at least $500. A third offense: up to 90 days in jail and a fine up to $1,000.
The penalties are part of what Mayor Nicholas J. Sacco calls the toughest anti-graffiti law in New Jersey.
Besides the stiff sentences, the crackdown here includes widely advertised rewards of $250, anti-graffiti lessons for schoolchildren from kindergarten through 12th grade, and some vigorous lobbying in Trenton for passage of a state law that would go after one of a teen-ager's most cherished possessions: the driver's license. Under the legislation, which awaits a vote in the Senate, a licensed driver convicted of writing graffiti would have the license suspended for one year. Those too young to drive would not be able to receive a license until age 18, instead of 17.
North Bergen is a tidy, no-nonsense working-class community on the banks of the Hudson River, just north of Jersey City, long a canvas of graffiti. Some here see the sudden spurt of graffiti as a sign of urban creep that, they say, tarnishes North Bergen's well-ordered image.
Mr. Sacco wants none of it and has taken a leading role in shaping the crackdown. He brings more influence to the campaign than most mayors. He has put up the $250 reward money from his political club, the North Bergen Democratic Municipal Committee, which is privately financed. He is the principal at Lincoln School and thus can help shape the anti-graffiti lessons in the classrooms. He is also a State Senator and a co-sponsor of the bill that goes after driving licenses.
He says the graffiti proliferated about six months ago and was starting to get out of hand.
"We were unable to keep up with it," he said. "We have our graffiti machines out constantly. There was no deterrent. So we decided to get a law that is extremely strict but fair. I hope surrounding towns do what we're doing or go further, so we have a united front and kids can't go across town lines and scrawl."
Newspaper ads announcing the $250 reward said the graffiti was beginning to tarnish North Bergen's image and destroy neighborhood pride. Promise of money for information leading to arrests and convictions has won the town some allies. One resident spotted a man spray-painting a telephone booth outside the Coach House restaurant just north of the Jersey City border and snapped some photographs as the painter applied his logo.
The anti-graffiti patrol is now trying to identify him.
"I've even had students call from their principal's office asking if they could get the money or if their parents could," he said.
Six boys have been arrested since the new law took effect March 30. All were caught in the act by the new anti-graffiti patrol: seven undercover officers who keep an eye out for scrawlers, in addition to their regular police duties.
Those arrested are 11 to 17 years old. Legally, all are classified as juveniles, making them too young to face the new law's jail time and stiff fines. Their cases go automatically to Hudson County juvenile court. Conviction will probably result in some form of community service, Mayor Sacco said.
The best deterrent, he said, would be passage of the bill requiring a year's delay in the granting of a license. Also, he said, the new town law makes their parents liable for damages from spray painting.
"I feel parents will be our best offense against this, because they'll be responsible economically," he said.
One member of the undercover patrol, Officer Debra Cummings, said some graffiti suggest groups of boys staking out turf. Many symbols and logos belong to individuals. But other markings, Officer Cummings said, contain three-letter logos: JAO for "Jersey All Out"; AFO, for "All for One," and AFK, for "Artists Forever Known." The logos suggest gang membership, she said.
One inviting target is the north wall of a car dealership, North Hudson Dodge, at 65th Street and Kennedy Boulevard. Each spring, the manager, David Sciorsci, had the brick wall, 120 feet long and 30 feet high, painted white. Just as soon as it was painted, it was filled with scrawls in red and black, he said.
"Every year, it's the same thing," he said. "They call it art and everything, but I think it's ugly. I don't want kids doing any hard jail time. I'd just have them paint my wall white."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Penalties being considered against youthful graffiti vandals in North Bergen include postponement of the right to receive a driver's license. Graffiti on a wall at 63d Street and Kennedy Boulevard. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH BERGEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GRAFFITI; VANDALISM; CHILDREN AND YOUTH VANDALISM (94%); GRAFFITI (94%); CHILDREN (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); DRIVERS LICENSES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); MAYORS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LICENSES & PERMITS (87%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); SENTENCING (75%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



280 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Administration and Judiciary Accused of Bias

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: TRENTON. April 11

 BODY:
A Hispanic organization today filed a complaint with the State Division on Civil Rights, charging that all departments of the Whitman Administration as well as the judiciary have been practicing "institutionalized discrimination" against Spanish-speaking job seekers.
The organization, the Hispanic Council of New Jersey, which calls itself Hispac, says it represents 1,500 people who have been systematically denied employment with the state. The council said that, based on its examination of state affirmative-action reports, not one department is meeting hiring goals set by the State Department of Personnel and the State Department of Labor. 
 Although the complaint seeks damages for economic loss, humiliation, mental pain and suffering, John Fuentes, first vice chairman of the council, said the group really just wanted someone to listen. "We want someone to examine our position and that of the administration and tell who is right," he said.
The council also forwarded a copy of the complaint to the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The state Department of Law and Public Safety, which is named in the complaint, includes a Civil Rights Division; the relationship between the two may create a conflict of interest, because the division is being asked to investigate its own department.
Mr. Fuentes said figures provided by the personnel department show that 4.7 percent of the state's 76,692 employees are Hispanic, compared with the 9 percent representation they should have, based on state labor pool figures.
Mr. Fuentes also repeated allegations made last December that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman is not paying enough attention to the problems of Hispanic residents. At that time the Governor made a speech announcing a new racial tolerance campaign and failed to mention Hispanic residents. Among those who criticized her oversight were Representative Robert Menendez and State Assemblyman Raul Garcia, both Union City Democrats.
And in October 1994, leaders of the Hispanic Bar Association of New Jersey accused Governor Whitman of falling short in her appointments of Hispanic residents to her Cabinet and to the bench.
More recently, Mr. Fuentes said, efforts to sit down with some Cabinet-level officials of the administration were unsuccessful. Instead, he said, his group was able to talk only with an aide in the Office of Policy and Planning. Mr. Fuentes said it is possible that someone in her administration is misleading Governor Whitman and "misrepresenting reality" concerning the treatment of Hispanic residents by the administration.
Carl Golden, Governor Whitman's spokesman, said the administration was prepared to defend itself against the civil rights complaint. "We believe our record in terms of reaching out to minority groups, including Hispanic residents, and our record on hiring ultimately will prevail."
Mr. Golden said it was difficult to make major changes in employment patterns "when there hasn't been much hiring in the last year and four months, and there has been a job freeze as of April 1."
He also said he was surprised at the allegation that Hispanic leaders have been unable to talk any top level administration officials.
"There recently was a roundtable meeting of the Governor and Gil Medina, the commissioner of commerce and economic development, with some people who represented Hispanic groups," Mr. Golden said. "There have been lines of communication opened."
Guillermo Beytagh-Maldonado, another Hispac leader who has joined seven others in signing the civil rights complaint, said the organization not only wants to see more people hired but also more promotions to administrative and professional positions. He said many Hispanic residents with college degrees have submitted resumes and applications for positions as they were advertised in civil service publications and never received the courtesy of a reply.
With the stack of affirmative action reports on the table in front of him, Mr. Fuentes quoted from a report of the Attorney General's Office for the current year that said that while black and white employees, both male and female, were represented in the category of those earning more than $75,000, there was not one Hispanic employee in that category. And Hispanic workers were the only group not represented in the category of those who received raises during the current fiscal year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITMAN ADMINISTRATION (88%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; DISCRIMINATION; COURTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); DAMAGES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLITICS (64%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) BOB MENENDEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



281 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Are Higher; Inflation Pressures Steady

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher yesterday, as a Government report showed inflation pressures holding steady at the wholesale level.
But comments by a Federal Reserve official and early rumors in the market that the retail sales reports by Johnson Redbook and Mitsubishi/Wertheim Schroder would be strong helped to touch off selling that pared early gains. A weak dollar provided a negative backdrop to trading. 
 The 30-year bond rose 8/32 , to a price of 1032/32to yield 7.37 percent, down from 7.39 percent on Monday.
Bonds initially opened morning trading on the upside after the Labor Department said its Producer Price Index, which measures the rate of inflation at the wholesale level, was unchanged in March. The report eased investor concern that inflation might accelerate and cause their fixed-income investments to lose value, and as a result brought more buyers into the market.
The report, which showed the overall index number unchanged at three-tenths of 1 percent for March, also showed the core, less food and energy, up one-tenth of 1 percent compared with three-tenths of 1 percent the previous month. Analysts said this was good for the market because it suggested that rising interest rates had slowed the economy and made it less likely that inflation would accelerate.
The early Mitsubishi/ Wertheim Schroeder index on weekly chain-store sales rose a hefty 3.3 percent for the week ending April 8, compared with the fall of 1.3 percent for the week ended April 1. It fueled speculation that the Redbook report would also come in strong and it did, coming in up 3.9 percent in the first week of April.
Rising price pressures were also noted in another report yesterday, this one by the Federal Reserve of Richmond. In its latest survey of regional manufacturing and service sector activity, the Richmond Fed said that price pressures were being led by sharp increases in wages and retail prices.
Elsewhere, Janet Yellen, a Federal Reserve governor, told Market News, a financial wire service, the financial markets should not assume monetary policy is definitely on hold. But she was careful not to give any hint about the likelihood of a rate increase or easing, saying only that the Fed has made no decision to leave policy unchanged and that it is continuing to examine incoming economic and financial data carefully.
Carl Palash, the chief economist at MCM Moneywatch, a market analysis firm, said the producer price numbers showed that moderation in manufacturing and consumer spending had taken the edge off inflation. "We should see something like that in the March Consumer Price Index," he said. "But I think, given that the economy is still operating at full capacity, the market still has to be weary of inflation risks in the outlook.
"That was the thrust of the Yellen comments this morning that took the wind out of the market."
Mr. Palash went on to say that the market's negative reaction to the Richmond Fed regional survey was a result of its focusing on the headline numbers, which reflected retail prices and raw materials. "But I have to be cautious about that report because it's a local survey and I'm not sure it's truly representative of the economy," he said.
Mr. Palash noted that while the Johnson Redbook survey was strong, "this week is difficult, because of the adjustments for the holiday effect." He added, "I would view today's Redbook with a lot of caution." He believes the market will have to wait until the end of the month to draw any conclusions.
And while the headline numbers were bearish for bonds, there were some soft spots in the report, which suggest that apparel was below retailers' expectations for sales because of cold weather. This was similar to the Mitsubishi report.
Mr. Palash attributed the afternoon pickup in bond prices to some short-covering that started when the Redbook report showed retail sales up 3.9 percent, below market rumors of a 5 percent gain.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JOHNSON REDBOOK (90%); CARL PALASH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



282 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Jobless In Bay Ridge

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
The "Dear Employee" letters were signed by First Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers. Many of them were sent out. The one that I saw was delivered to a man who lives with his family in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn, a stable middle- and working-class enclave about five miles from City Hall and several light years from the seat of Federal power in Washington.
Consisting of four short, devastating paragraphs, the letter is the kind that can leave the recipient disoriented, afraid, sometimes even ashamed. It begins, "Despite every effort to achieve savings through attrition . . ." 
 By the end of the third paragraph, the cold, gray bureaucratic language is set in darker type and underlined, as if some emphasis were needed. "I strongly encourage you," the letter says, "to avail yourself of this final severance opportunity."
On Monday the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, announced officially that he was running for President. Like most politicians, Mr. Dole feels compelled to portray himself as a champion of the middle class, a partisan of hard-working folks like those in Bay Ridge. The preferred way of doing this is to indulge in fantasy. And so Mr. Dole looked out at his audience in Topeka, Kan., and said, to tremendous cheers: "Let me make one fundamental belief crystal clear. We can cut taxes and balance the budget all at the same time."
This, of course, would be a shock to any schoolchild who has recently mastered arithmetic. Mr. Dole seemed serious -- as serious as a grown man can be while trying to assure us that down is up, up is down, and the sky is no longer blue. What Mr. Dole managed to prove is that he, like most politicians from both parties, is clueless about the one issue that would help the middle class (and everyone else) the most -- employment.
Bay Ridge is, for the most part, conservative in its politics. It voted for Rudolph Giuliani over David Dinkins, and George Pataki over Mario Cuomo. But the issue in Bay Ridge is no different from the issue in Bedford-Stuyvesant or the issue across most of America.
"My constituents are concerned about unemployment and underemployment," said Sal F. Albanese, a Democrat who represents Bay Ridge on the City Council. He noted that the official unemployment rate in New York City is 8.5 percent, and the real rate is much higher.
"I held a hearing on employment about a week and a half ago," Mr. Albanese said. "Two men from Bay Ridge were among those who testified. Both were white males and seemed very conservative. One had been laid off by Nynex, which was downsizing last year. He was 47 years old and he actually broke down and cried. The other had worked at Taystee Bread for 22 years, and he'd been out of work for more than a year. He cried, too."
Neither the Republicans nor the Democrats know what to do about this. In fact, the fundamental approach of both parties is to take the downsizing mindset of corporate America and apply it to government. When the current budget-cutting frenzy really takes hold, a staggering number of government employees across the country will be forced out of work.
"There are a tremendous number of civil servants who live in my district," said Mr. Albanese, "but that area of opportunity is basically being choked off."
It is estimated that in the New York area there are at least eight applicants for every available job. On March 16, nearly 1,000 men and women showed up at a Labor Department office in White Plains to apply for temporary jobs with no benefits at a General Motors plant in Tarrytown.
Bereft of ideas, yet faced with constituents increasingly anxious about their economic prospects, the politicians have turned to scapegoating and demagoguery. Instead of figuring out how to put America back to work, our so-called leaders are spinning deceptive and destructive yarns about the twin evils of affirmative action and immigration, the miraculous effects of the death penalty and the everlasting benefits of assault weapons.
Mr. Dole was in New York Monday evening. He picked up a couple of million at fund-raisers and hobnobbed with Boss D'Amato. Not much was said about Bay Ridge. Not much was said about ordinary New Yorkers walking the unemployment plank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BRBC (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY RIDGE BANCORP INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); POLITICS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MEN (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); BUDGETS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); HERBERT, BOB RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



283 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Retains Some of Its Gains Despite Data on Producer Prices

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar held onto some short-term gains yesterday after rebounding on Monday from a postwar low against the Japanese yen.
Callum Henderson, an analyst with the consulting firm MMS International, said: "The dollar is indeed consolidating after the recent yen turmoil. In the very near term, we may have found a floor. But further out, there is some potential for further dollar-yen decline." 
 The dollar had touched a low of 80.15 yen in Tokyo trading early Monday, rebounding to settle in New York trading at 84.02 yen late that afternoon. Yesterday, it slipped to 83.82 yen.
On Monday, the dollar made its biggest one-day gain against the German mark since August. Yesterday, it slipped here, too, to 1.4015 marks from 1.4100.
Currency dealers said the dollar had declined against the mark after the Labor Department reported that inflation at the producer level was flat in March.
Subdued inflation relieves pressure on the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. Higher rates tend to make a currency more attractive, and dealers had hoped for a coordinated round of interest-rate changes to support the dollar.
The German central bank lowered its discount rate on March 30, and the Japanese are expected to soon cut their discount rate. But yesterday's producer-price report confirmed the expecations of some that the Fed would not raise rates soon.
Mr. Henderson of MMS International said the essential problem in foreign-exchange markets remained the strength of the yen, "which can only be halted by structural reforms in the Japanese economy."
"Further efforts are needed to stimulate domestic demand in Japan through fiscal or monetary policy," he added. "That's what Japan needs if it wants to see its economy pick up and import more U.S. products."
The low dollar has so far done little to correct the huge American trade deficit with Japan because of barriers to foreign goods in the Japanese market, analysts and Government officials reiterated.
"We have been told for a long time that changes in yen-dollar valuations would have a dramatic, positive impact on our trade deficit with Japan," Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown said yesterday. "That has not been the case." Mr. Brown said negotiations with Japan were the only way to reduce the two nations' $60 billion trade imbalance.
In other currency trading in New York yesterday, the British pound fell to $1.5920 from $1.5930 on Monday. The dollar fell to 1.545 Swiss francs from 1.600 francs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (63%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) H BROWN LTD (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); BRITISH POUND (68%); 

PERSON: RONALD H BROWN (63%); CALLUM HENDERSON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



284 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Those mortgage-backed derivative securities are about dead in the water.

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
TAKE big losses. Mix in a lot of bad publicity. What do you get? A market that is almost dead.
The creators of mortgage-backed derivative securities, who were churning out more than $1 billion a day of new merchandise early last year, managed to sell just $5.1 billion of such securities in the first quarter of this year. That was down an immodest 94 percent from the $82.5 billion sold in the first quarter of 1994. 
 "Nobody wants to buy them," said Guy Cecela, the editor and publisher of Inside Mortgage Securities, a newsletter in Bethesda, Md., that compiled the figures.
The figure was down even from the fourth quarter of 1994, which had looked like about the worst possible, when $6.1 billion in such securities were issued, and was the lowest since the last quarter of 1985, when $5 billion were issued. At the peak, in the third quarter of 1993, issuance came to $100.5 billion.
Mortgage-backed derivative securities take pools of mortgages and cut up the cash flows into several different securities. Those securities can have a wide variety of characteristics, including some fairly exotic ones, and since such securities were invented in 1983, the number of ways a pool could be cut up grew as investment bankers vied with each other in creativity.
Such derivative securities can range from amazingly safe and conservative to wildly speculative. Some parts can benefit if interest rates rise; others can suffer. Over all, however, mortgage-backed securities generally suffer if rates rise, as they did last year.
So far this year, mortgage rates have slipped. The failure of the mortgage-backed derivatives market to revive reflects the fact that investors in such securities suffered steep losses last year. The Securities Industry Association called what happened "a liquidity crisis in the secondary markets" as buyers vanished. Some owners of the securities turned out not to have understood the risks of the more exotic securities.
To create such securities, the underwriter must find buyers for all of the pieces. That has proved difficult this year. No doubt bad publicity about money managers who bought derivatives has scared some of them away from the market.
New mortgage derivatives can be created only from pools of mortgage-backed securities, and those are down sharply as well, in large part because fewer mortgages are being issued now that the refinancing boom has ended. But the issuance of derivatives is off far more.
In the first quarter of this year, only $41.6 billion in new mortgage-backed securities were issued, down 77 percent from the $178.6 billion issued in the same period of 1994 and off 28 percent from $57.8 billion in last year's fourth quarter.
One way of looking at the populariry of mortgage derivatives is to look at their total volume as a percentage of new mortgage securities. At the peak in 1993, more than half of new mortgage securities were cut up into derivatives; now the figure is 12 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Melting Away" shows quarterly volume of new mortgage erivative securities issued from '83-'95. (Source: Inside Mortgage Securities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MORTGAGE SECURITIES (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); MARYLAND, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); MORTGAGES DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (94%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); BONDS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



285 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Investments

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HANOI, April 11

 BODY:
The Vietnamese Government approved $1.9 billion in foreign investments during the first quarter of the year, almost triple the value of the ventures and projects licensed in the corresponding period of 1994. The increase, reported today by the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment, can be partly attributed to American investment after the United States ended its 19-year economic embargo against Vietnam in February 1994. The United States became Vietnam's eighth-largest investor last month, with 33 licensed ventures worth $525 million, the report said. Taiwan remained the largest source of foreign investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (78%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); 

COMPANY: COOPERATION&INVESTMENT (55%); STATE COMMITTEE FOR TELEVISION & RADIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (78%); HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; EMBARGOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); TRENDS (87%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



286 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
AS anyone who has climbed the Matterhorn or sped through the St. Gotthard Tunnel knows, the Swiss thrive on challenges. Even as we speak, they are here in New York for a go at a tough obstacle, the American wine market.
Swiss wine? Yes, the Swiss have made wine for probably as long as the French next door. Maybe longer; there are grapes in Switzerland, like the petite arvine, that supposedly trace their lineage back to the Roman legions. 
 Wine is not a major industry in Switzerland. All the Swiss vineyards together don't add up to the grape plantings in Sonoma County. Not much there, but as Spencer Tracy said of Katharine Hepburn in "Pat and Mike," "What's there is cherce."
The Swiss like to say that the rest of us don't know much about their wines because they, the wines, are so good that they, the Swiss, drink them all up. That's a good story, but it's not quite on the mark. The Swiss do drink lots of wine: per-person consumption is about 20 liters of their own each year plus 30 liters of imports. Beaujolais, made nearby, has been called the Swiss national drink.
Even so, the Swiss would be happy to export more of their wine than they do now -- virtually none -- which is the idea behind the current promotion in New York restaurants. The problem has long been price. Most of the vineyards are tiny, and most of them cling like mountain goats to south-facing Alpine slopes. Even under ideal economic conditions, production costs would be high. But added to this is the fact that Swiss vineyard workers are among the highest paid agricultural workers in the world.
More than half of all Swiss wine is white -- made from the chasselas grape. In skilled hands, chasselas produces a fresh, lively wine, often slightly petillant -- influenced by the soil from which it springs.
Chasselas predominates in three of the French-speaking cantons -- Geneva, Valais and Vaud. In the Valais, it is known as fendant, and so is the wine made from it. Pinot gris, chardonnay, marsanne, petite arvine and another singularly Swiss grape, the amigne, all find their way into white Swiss wines.
The Vaud is divided into five districts. The wines are generally known by the villages within the districts. Among the better known ones are Nyon, Morges, Dezaley, Epesses, St. Saphorin and Aigle. There are subtle, often intriguing differences among them, but they are all made from the chasselas grape.
The most popular red wine in French-speaking Switzerland is called Dole and is a blend of pinot noir and gamay. Dole is light and fruity and should be drunk young. Some pinot noir is produced as a very light red or rose called Oeil de Perdrix, or Eye of the Partridge.
In the German-speaking areas, the main white grape is a cross between sylvaner and riesling called Muller-Thurgau, a grape the Germans developed. The German-speaking cantons also make wine from pinot noir, which they, like the Germans, call blauburgunder or klevner.
Like the reds from the Vaud and Valais, the blauburgunder can be fruity and pleasant. And like them, it will never cause any French Burgundy or Beaujolais producers to lose a night's sleep.
In the Ticino region, around Locarno and Lugano, where Italian is the principal tongue, the main grape is merlot and, of course, the wine is red.
The best place to drink Swiss wines is in Switzerland, whether at an elegant restaurant like Girardet, near Lausanne; the Chat Botte at the Beau Rivage in Geneva or at any one of the rustic, lakeside inns along the shore of Lake Neuchatel. A cold, young Aigle les Murailles, with a freshly caught and simply prepared lake fish, in a setting of Swiss tranquillity, is one of life's true pleasures.
For the next few weeks, New Yorkers can enjoy the wines, and possibly the fish, at the following restaurants: Adrienne, the Four Seasons, Gramercy Park Cafe, Montrachet, Tse Yang, Lespinasse, Michael's, March, La Reserve, La Colombe d'Or, Daniel, Le Perigord, La Caravelle, Zut!, Colors, the Drake Bar, Picholine, Chanterelle, Aureole and Chiam. As part of the promotion, these restaurants will be offering a variety of Swiss wines by the glass during the month of April.
Retail prices for Swiss wines have never been more attractive. For example, a 1993 Aigle les Murailles from Henri Badoux is $24 at Morrell & Company in Manhattan. A 1993 Les Murettes, Fendant de Sion, is $16, and a rare Petite Arvine 1993, from Pierre Ollaire, is $20. For merlot devotees interested in seeing how the Swiss do it, a Ticinese version called Rubro can be found for around $28.
In addition to Morrell & Company, retailers participating in the Swiss wine promotion include Acker, Merrall & Condit and Beekman Liquors in New York City, and Wine and Spirit World in Fort Lee and Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.
You may already have a Swatch and a Swiss Army knife. Are they not sufficient proof that the Swiss can do remarkable things when they put their minds to it?

TASTINGS
Fortant de France Kosher Chardonnay 1993. Vin de Pays d'Oc. About $8.
 
This varietal from the Languedoc-Roussillon region of France, whose introduction is timed to coincide with Passover, typifies the drier kosher wines replacing the traditionally heavy, sweet ones that dominated the market not long ago. Fortant de France is a leader in the effort to bring reasonably priced varietal wines from the South of France to the American market. A kosher merlot is scheduled for release here next autumn. While drier than old-style kosher wines, this chardonnay is hardly austere. On the contrary, it is a full-flavored, rounded wine that reflects the warm sun and generous soils of the Mediterranean vineyards that produced it. Obviously fashioned with a contemporary palate in mind, it is still soft enough and tasty enough to appeal even to old Concord hard-liners, although God forbid they should admit it.

GRAPHIC: Cartoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VALAIS, SWITZERLAND (92%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); VALAIS, SWITZERLAND (92%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES WINE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); WINERIES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J KATHARINE HOUGHTON HEPBURN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



287 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
Warm but Unhappy Look at Farming

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
Paul Zehrer's moody family drama "Blessing" captures the rhythms and rituals of Midwestern farming life in such acute detail that you can almost feel the bite of the damp morning air at milking time and smell the pungency of the barn. Regularly throughout the film, the camera draws back to gauge the weather and survey the austere beauty of the countryside.
This atmosphere seeps under the skin of the film's four main characters, all members of dairy-farming family in Wisconsin. Jack (Guy Griffis), the flinty, autocratic head of the household, is an embittered eccentric barely able to make ends meet with his herd of dairy cattle. In fits of frustration, he beats his beloved cows. Lately he has acquired the habit of climbing to the top of his silo and taking snapshots. 
 His frightened wife, Arlene (Carlin Glynn), fends off despair by entering newspaper lotteries and tending her collection of small religious statues. Each time her husband climbs the silo, she is convinced he is spying on a woman from a neighboring farm. When she voices her suspicion of his roving eye, he flies into a rage, digs a gaping hole in the backyard and orders her to fill it up just to give her something to do.
Of the couple's three children, an older son has already fled the nest. Remaining are a younger son, 10-year-old Clovis (Clovis Siemon), and a 23-year-old daughter, Randi (Melora Griffis, Mr. Griffis's daughter), who is the movie's central character. Randi, who has vague dreams of becoming a marine biologist, plans to leave the farm, but her tugging sense of responsibility keeps delaying her departure.
"Blessing," which opens today at the Angelika 57, suggests a softened, contemporary echo of "Wisconsin Death Trip," Michael Lesy's celebrated collection of grim photographs, news stories and obituaries from the 1890's. Instead of telling a story, the film is a minutely drawn portrait of a troubled family that suggests the devastating impact of social and economic change on a 19th-century way of life. That life, the movie suggests, is painfully out of step with the beat of the modern world, which beckons by satellite dish and radio.
The family's state of frozen embattlement begins to thaw when Randi becomes involved with Lyle (Gareth Williams), a milk deliverer and freelance astrologer. They meet at the general store and form a friendship that quickly deepens into a romance. The fact that Lyle has a wife and child back East doesn't seem to faze them.
"Blessing," Mr. Zehrer's first feature film as a writer and director, presents a pointedly anti-romantic view of the heartland. All the characters except Clovis are gripped by boredom and a lurking claustrophobia.
If the screenplay has moments when the characters begin to sound like authorial mouthpieces, the director and his fine cast have pulled off the difficult task of portraying a family whose deep strains don't obscure their equally deep and helpless love.

BLESSING 1
 
Written and directed by Paul Zehrer; director of photography, Stephen Kazmierski; edited by Andrew Morreale and Mr. Zehrer; music by Joseph S. DeBeasi; production designer, Steve Rosenzweig; produced by Melissa Powell and Mr. Zehrer; released by Starr Valley Films. At the Angelika 57, 225 West 57th Street, Manhattan. Running time: 94 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Melora Griffis (Randi), Carlin Glynn (Arlene), Guy Griffis (Jack), Clovis Siemon (Clovis) and Gareth Williams (Lyle)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlin Glynn. (Starr Valley Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLESSING (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS DAIRY FARMING (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FILM (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS (73%); RELIGION (73%); MARINE BIOLOGY (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: ZEHRER, PAUL; HOLDEN, STEPHEN PAUL ZEHRER (92%); GUY GRIFFIS (70%); CLOVIS SIEMON (69%); GARETH WILLIAMS (56%); MELORA GRIFFIS (56%); CARLIN GLYNN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



288 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Dole Works on Expansion Of a Conservative Resume

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, April 11

 BODY:
The day after signing a no-new-taxes pledge to reaffirm his credentials as a fiscal conservative, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas plunged into the Midwest today to present himself as a dedicated social conservative.
Making a weeklong tour to announce his candidacy for the Republican Presidential nomination, Mr. Dole unleashed scornful attacks on the entertainment industry, drug dealers and welfare mothers and put forth a forceful endorsement of voluntary prayer in schools. 
 "Our music and movies and advertising regularly push the limits of decency, bombarding our children with destructive messages of casual violence and even more casual sex," Mr. Dole, the Senate majority leader, told a crowd packed into a pavilion at the Iowa State Fairgrounds. "Nowhere is it more evident than in what we see on television. Prime-time programming once was for families. No more."
Mr. Dole's remarks here and at an earlier stop at the Capitol in Columbus, Ohio, were notable because in his 34-year career in the House and Senate, he has shied away from touchy social issues and been more closely identified with a pragmatic brand of conservatism geared toward economics.
But Mr. Dole is mounting his third bid for the Republican nomination against rivals who are generally to his right, and he must try to win over the party's primary voters, who tend to be more conservative than the rest of the party and the country as a whole. In particular, Mr. Dole must gain the support of the cultural and religious conservatives who more and more are making themselves heard in the Republican Party.
Thus, his sharp oratory today, as well as his call today and Monday for cutting Federal funding of the arts, was more reminiscent of former Vice President Dan Quayle's campaign against Hollywood and of Ralph Reed, the chairman of the Christian Coalition, than of the Bob Dole familiar to those who watch Congress.
Most surprising, perhaps, was Mr. Dole's outspokenness on prayer in schools. Although his aides noted that in 1984 Mr. Dole backed an amendment supporting school prayer, until today he had stayed largely silent on the issue.
"We must guarantee that every American has the right to enjoy religious liberty and freedom of conscience," he said. "If students can discuss sports, music or drama at school, they should also be allowed to voluntarily pray." Mr. Dole said he would favor legislating school prayer rather than a constitutional amendment, adding that the Senate probably would not have time to take up the matter this year.
"One of the most alarming aspects of Government intrusiveness has been the assault it has waged on our values," Mr. Dole said. "Today we find that voluntary prayer is forbidden in our classrooms, that the moral code we nurture in our churches and synagogues is under attack from our Government."
He dived into a litany of other red-eat issues for social conservatives:
* "We must hold Hollywood accountable for putting profit ahead of common decency."
* "We must stop cash payments to children having children and find another way to care for their babies."
*"Drugs are evil and the drug dealers must be punished and should be punished. They ought to throw the book at them."
*"No President should ever, ever appoint a Surgeon General who believes the best way to fight illegal drugs is to legalize them," referring to Dr. Joycelyn Elders, the former Surgeon General and a favorite target of social conservatives.
Mr. Dole's comments today were the latest example of his trying to avoid the mistakes that sunk his Presidential campaign in 1988.
In New Hampshire on Monday, his aides made public a pledge that Mr. Dole signed promising not to raise marginal tax rates. He refused to go along with a similar pledge in 1988, a move that helped cost him the primary, and he has in the past supported some tax increases to try to control the Federal deficit.
But signing the pledge this time may prove politically risky over time. The man who did make the no-new-tax promise in 1988, George Bush, learned in his failed re-election campaign in 1992 that voters do not take well to broken promises.
Mr. Dole explained to reporters traveling on a chartered plane with him here today that he did not think raising taxes was nearly as heated an issue as it was in 1988. But he said he went with the pledge after he was satisfied that this year's version would allow for the closing of loopholes. "That was my objection last time," he said.
Robert Teeter, Mr. Bush's pollster in the 1988 campaign, said in a telephone interview that it was only natural for Mr. Dole to sign the pledge. " '88 and '95 are different times," he said. "Public opinion has changed. It would surprise me if any candidate did not take a pretty strong anti-tax position."
Jack Abramoff, a partner in Americans for Tax Reform, the group that devised the pledge, said members would hold Mr. Dole to the pledge for years, whether he stays as majority leader or is elected President. If Mr. Dole were to break the pledge, Mr. Abramoff warned, "I'm sure he would probably enjoy some of the same public scrutiny that President Bush enjoyed."
"But I don't think it's on the horizon this time," he added.
In Mr. Dole's speeches today, the one important social issue conspicuously absent was abortion. While Mr. Dole and some of his rivals have studiously avoided raising the divisive issue, the Senator shrugged off the omission, telling reporters, "My views are consistently pro-life."
Mr. Dole also said he was not pandering to the right wing. He said that he had long held the views he enunciated this week but that most people were more aware of his record of forging compromises as the Republican leader.
Still, in a glimpse of the old Dole, at one point today he seemed eager to temper his uncharacteristically strong words by telling the audience in Columbus that he was no extremist. Asked later to explain, he said voters were "looking for someone with stability, with experience."
Mr. Dole's campaign manager, Scott Reed, was blunt when asked about the Senator's comments on social issues: "Any survey research you or I have seen shows that these are issues that primary voters care about or are motivated by." As for his reversal on the tax pledge, Mr. Reed said, "It's called getting off the defense."
The Senator's comments today seemed intended to protect him from being outflanked on the right by competitors like Senator Phil Gramm of Texas. Mr. Dole rejected the notion that his colleague was getting under his skin -- though he did note that he was headed for the Texan's turf for a fund-raising event. "I'm going to get under his skin -- and his wallet -- tomorrow," he said with a sly smile. "I'm going to Dallas."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Dole, on the first full day of his campaign for the Presidency, met with World War II veterans yesterday in Columbus, Ohio. The men served with Mr. Dole in the 10th Mountain Division in Italy. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES (IOWA); COLUMBUS (OHIO); UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CONSERVATISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); FAMILY (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); MUSIC (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (54%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); BERKE, RICHARD L BOB DOLE (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



289 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Trump Is Selling Plaza Hotel To Saudi and Asian Investors

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT with KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The Plaza Hotel, long a symbol of luxury and grandeur in New York and more recently the crown jewel in Donald J. Trump's shaky business empire, is being sold to two of the world's richest men: a Saudi Arabian Prince and one of Singapore's leading entrepreneurs.
The buyers said yesterday that the deal put a total value of $325 million on the landmark hotel at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue near Central Park. 
 In essence, the buyers are taking over the Plaza by assuming most of its debts. None of the money from the deal will go to Mr. Trump, who acquired the hotel for about $400 million in 1988. Rather, it will go to banks in the United States that had lent money to Mr. Trump and to banks in Japan that hold a mortgage on the hotel property.
While Mr. Trump will retain a say in the hotel's operations as a minority partner, his surrender of control is a defeat for the real estate developer, who in the heady days of the late 1980's proclaimed the Plaza "the ultimate trophy in the world." But the world has drastically changed for Mr. Trump since then, as real estate prices collapsed.
The complexity of the sale announced yesterday, and the international scope of the transaction, illustrated how the arenas of real estate and finance have grown beyond national boundaries, and how the business world has shrunk, in ways even the most visionary people could have hardly imagined when the Plaza opened in 1907.
The sale, rumored for weeks, was announced in Singapore by CDL Hotels International Ltd. The company, which owns 35 hotels around the world including the Hotel Macklowe the Millenium in Manhattan, said it had formed a venture with an entity controlled by Prince Walid bin Talal, a 40-year-old nephew of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia who has been buying into the luxury hotel business.
The prince first came to prominence several years ago when he invested heavily in Citicorp as that banking company was struggling with big losses. He has since invested in the Four Seasons Hotels chain, Saks Fifth Avenue and Euro Disney.
CDL is part of the Singapore Hong Leong Group, a corporate empire controlled by the developer Kewk Hong Png, which also has interests in real estate, machine tools and energy. His son, Kwek Leng Beng, runs CDL.
The purchase of the hotel is a complex deal but in its simplest terms the new investors will take control of the property and manage the hotel, and Mr. Trump, who once had near total control of it, will have a substantially reduced role.
He will, however, develop plans with the new owners to build luxury condominiums on the Plaza's top floors and additional retail space. The new owners also plan to spend $28 million for renovations.
As part of the deal, CDL and the Prince will pay down the outstanding debt on the hotel owed to the banks, reducing it to about $25 million from more than $300 million. According to people familiar with the transaction, that remaining $25 million will be converted into equity held by a bank consortium led by Citibank.
Under terms of an agreement reached late in 1992, that consortium agreed to forgive overdue interest payments on some $300 million in loans in return for a 49 percent stake in the Plaza.
"There will be four partners," said Abraham Wallach, a spokesman for Mr. Trump. "The banks, primarily Citibank, who will get a preferred return on their equity; Prince Walid; CDL Hotels and Mr. Trump."
Mr. Wallach declined to specify what percentage of the Plaza each partner would own. But at a news conference in Singapore yesterday, a CDL spokesman told The Associated Press that the Prince and CDL "eventually" would hold up to 80 percent of the hotel.
In addition to paying down the debt, the new partners have agreed to pay $25 million in each of the next three years to reduce a $300 million first mortgage on the property held by a consortium of Japanese banks.
The mortgage, which is held by the Industrial Bank of Japan, comes due in December. If the Japanese group does not want to refinance the loan, CDL and the Prince have agreed to pay off the mortgage in its entirety.
Mr. Trump currently owns 51 percent of the Plaza. The rest is owned by the banks, which obtained their interest from Mr. Trump three years ago in exchange for a substantial reduction in his bank debt. Mr. Wallach said those involved hoped to complete the deal by summer.
Mr. Trump bought the Plaza during the real estate boom of the 1980's, using borrowed money. Additional debt was piled on the property over the next couple of years as he leveraged the landmark to buy the Eastern Airlines shuttle and to help pay the construction cost of his Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City.
By 1992, the weight of the recession that hit New York City after the stock market crash in 1987 and the collapse in real estate prices had taken a heavy toll on Mr. Trump's finances. Negotiations began to rework some $560 million in debt.
After the Citibank consortium agreed to forgive the past interest payments on debt, Mr. Trump still retained the 51 percent interest on paper, but since he had no equity in the hotel -- having put up no cash when he bought it -- the banks effectively owned the property. The banks have been trying to find a buyer for the last three years.
Negotiations between CDL and Mr. Trump began last fall. In February, the Prince visited the hotel and expressed an interest.
Along with Mr. Kwek and the Prince, Mr. Trump will be a member of a management committee and "will have responsibility for setting policy at the hotel," the announcement in Singapore said. But day-to-day operations will be handled by Fairmont Hotel Management, the San Francisco-based concern in which the Prince is half-owner.
Designed by Henry Janeway Hardenbergh, the architect whose works include the Dakota apartment building on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the Plaza has long been as much institution as hotel. Overlooking Grand Army Plaza and Central Park South, the 19-story French Renaissance structure has played host to billionaires, heads of state, artists and dreams.
When it opened for business on Oct. 1, 1907, Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt was the first to sign the guest register. Jay Gould and other turn-of-the-century high-rollers kept suites there. So did Frank Lloyd Wright, who according to legend grudgingly conceded that the Plaza was one of the few buildings he liked that he had not designed himself.
Films celebrating the Plaza include "Plaza Suite," "North by Northwest," "Network," "The Way We Were," and "Home Alone 2."
Mr. Trump may not have known every chapter in the hotel's history, but he no doubt knew some of it when he said, after he bought it: "This isn't just a building, it's the ultimate work of art. I was in love with it. I tore myself up to get the Plaza."
Rates at the Plaza vary by season and availability. A reservations assistant said yesterday that typical rates range from $225 to $495 for a room and $650 to $12,000 for a suite.
Ivana Trump, Mr. Trump's wife at the time he bought the hotel, managed the Plaza for a while but no longer has a role there.
Regardless of his financial troubles, Mr. Trump and his organization have run the Plaza quite well, said Thomas McConnell, a hotel expert with the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Company.
Before Mr. Trump acquired the Plaza, "it was more a three-star," Mr. McConnell said, "and he kicked it up to a four-star."
The Plaza has had a consistent occupancy percentage in the high 70's or low 80's, which exceeds the city average, Mr. McConnell said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 1995, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday about the history of the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan misspelled the surname of the man who bought it in 1958. It was Lawrence A. Wien, not Wein.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Trump is selling the Plaza Hotel, on 59th Street and Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, to two of the world's richest men: a Saudi prince and a Singapore developer who owns a worldwide hotel chain. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0557 (HKSE) (66%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); EDL (PAR) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (66%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PLAZA HOTEL (NYC); CDL HOTELS INTERNATIONAL LTD CITY E-SOLUTIONS LTD (66%); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); HONG LEONG GROUP MALAYSIA (52%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (52%); EURO DISNEY SCA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLAZA HOTEL (NYC); CDL HOTELS INTERNATIONAL LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (91%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (68%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; GILPIN, KENNETH N; TRUMP, DONALD; WALID BIN TALAL (PRINCE); KWEK LENG BENG DONALD TRUMP (94%); PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



290 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1996 words

HEADLINE: Other Party to the Contract Isn't Impressed

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich., April 8

 BODY:
"How many of you watched Newt?" asked Peter Fletcher, presiding at the Ypsilanti Republicans' regular Saturday breakfast at Max's Deli the morning after the House Speaker was on national television to celebrate his Contract With America.
There were 16 Republicans drinking coffee around a long table. One person, Bob Kilpatrick, raised his hand. Sheepish glances were exchanged among the others. No one else had caught the speech. They had had other things to do, they said. 
 JoAnn Geer, a retired funeral director, had gone to dinner with a friend. Joe Lawrence, a property manager, had worked on his taxes. Mr. Fletcher, a former Republican national committeeman, announced without apology that he had taken in a particularly fine performance of "H.M.S. Pinafore" at the University of Michigan, in Ann Arbor.
The lack of excitement at Max's Deli was hardly unusual. From more than 100 conversations around the country -- in small North Carolina towns, in the wealthy desert outskirts of Phoenix, in the auto plant town of Ypsilanti outside Detroit and in suburban Massachusetts -- what emerged in recent days was a sense that those who had framed the Contract were far more enthusiastic about it than the people with whom they had supposedly contracted.
"It's just a political strategy," said Lonnie Parcell, a 50-year-old contractor eating at Stacy's Diner in Pittsboro, N.C.
Michael Marshner, a 43-year-old disabled truck driver now working as a massage therapist in Dearborn, Mich., who voted Libertarian in the last election, said: "They ought to call it the Contract out on America. How can you believe them? Everything they say falls through or doesn't come through. What happened to the Brady bill? What happened to the Gramm-Rudman Act? That was supposed to fix everything. The biggest thing that's out of control is the politicians."
Even Mr. Fletcher said Republican leaders and journalists were focusing on a political fad. "It's Contract, Contract, Contract, just like it was health care, health care, health care," at the start of the Clinton Administration, he said.
Despite such sentiments, plenty of people interviewed praised the Republicans' legislative agenda and the House's passage of it under the promised 100-day deadline. "For the first time in 40 years there's been a change in direction," said Jim Bruner, a tax lawyer and Republican from Scottsdale, Ariz.
And Bob Kilpatrick, the lone Republican at Max's Deli who watched Mr. Gingrich's speech, raved about the new Congress and the Contract. "Oh, I think it's great," he said. "They got it all the way through the House. It brings new hope."
But in Durham, N.C., the members of St. Joseph's A.M.E. Episcopal Church did not feel hopeful. Ed Stewart, a church elder said, "That Contract With American has placed black folks under siege."
While Democrats and registered independents, not surprisingly, disparaged the Contract, and Republicans were more favorable, most of those interviewed expressed similar views on three subjects. They said the House Republican proposal to balance the budget while giving the middle class a tax cut was unworkable. And while they enthusiastically support the Republican call for an overhaul of the welfare system, many said they thought that the House measure went too far. And they were disappointed that the proposed term limits were voted down.
In Shrewsbury, Mass., a suburb of Worcester, Virginia Berberian, a Republican, said: "How are you going to cut the taxes and balance the budget? Where's the money going to come from? You can't do it."
But while the Contract may be the talk of Washington, as well as a media focal point, out in the country it seemed almost incidental to people's lives. Some had not heard about it, or were barely familiar with it. Cindi Johnson, a 31-year-old mother of two small children, and a Republican, was racing from a gas station in Dearborn, to her waitress job at Lim's Garden the other evening. "Contract With America?" she said, in a hurry, but trying to respond politely to a reporter's question. "I don't pay too much attention. I'm working class. I go day by day. It has nothing to do with me."
"Life goes on no matter what happens in Congress," said Mrs. Johnson, who, with her husband laid off from his job laying asphalt, has been putting in extra hours at the restaurant.
At Max's Deli, Mr. Fletcher brought up the Contract only toward the end of an informal discussion that had ranged from the town's recent election of an independent as Mayor to the irritating necessity of downtown parking meters.
"If we were having a special Congressional election today," he asked, "how important would the Contract be?" No one said a word. "Nobody thinks it would be important," Mr. Fletcher said. "Then why is it getting so much attention?" No one answered, but he said later that the media and the politicians were talking to themselves.
At Stacy's Diner in Pittsboro, N.C., Mr. Parcell, Bill Burgess and John Goldston, grabbing lunch after a morning spent laying the foundation for a septic tank, were griping to a reporter that the Contract was just another done deal cooked up by a bunch of crooked millionaires.
"They're all a bunch of damn liars," said Mr. Parcell, an independent who, like his buddies, voted for Ross Perot in the last Presidential election. "It's the same thing on TV every week."
Digging into a plate of barbecue at the next booth, Mike Grinstead, who owns a commercial seeding business, broke in: "You must be talking about the O. J. trial."
Mr. Burgess, a 27-year-old Democrat, laughed. "Might as well be."
 
Chapel Hill, N.C.
Beneficial Side To Government
 Chapel Hill, a bucolic college town, is part of a Congressional district that, like so many others across the country, replaced a longtime Democratic incumbent representative last fall with a Republican.
Among the pockets of liberal sentiment, however, are the Chapel Hill retirees who belong to Arvin Kramish and Joe Kahl's "Readings in American History" discussion group. At their last meeting, the retirees, who overwhelmingly supported the Democrat last fall, were considering Franklin Delano Roosevelt's first and second inaugural addresses, speeches they had heard on the radio as children during the Depression.
The group, which had studied the House Republicans' 10-point Contract, disparaged Mr. Gingrich's efforts to compare the legislative achievements of his 100 days to the first 100 days of F.D.R. President Roosevelt had, among other things, closed the banks, established Federal banking insurance to protect depositors and created the Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate the stock market.
"All that's happened in the last 100 days is that the House has passed 8 of the 10 points," said Mr. Kramish, a retired economist, who spent much of his career with the State Department and the Pentagon.
The discussion group members said they had been struck anew by Mr. Roosevelt's emphasis on what government could do for people. In the second speech, Mr. Roosevelt spoke of "the need to find through government the instrument of our united purpose to solve for the individual the ever-rising problems of a complex civilization."
Mr. Kramish said: "What would be the reaction to that speech among the Republicans in Congress today? Nobody would dare read it on the floor."
The group also worried about what would happen to poor people. "This breed of Republican is a very dangerous animal," said Bernard Rosen, a retired pyschologist. "They're in some danger of rending the social fabric of society."
 
Scottsdale, Ariz.
Crossed Fingers For a Tax Break
 Scottsdale, a prosperous desert town where the landscape is dotted with golf courses and manicured gardens, is staunchly Republican. And while the first topic of conversation has been the return of the San Francisco Giants for spring training, many people there readily expressed satisfaction with the speedy passage through the House of the Republican agenda.
"It's the first time there's been an accounting," said Diana Smith, the president of the Scottsdale Chamber of Commerce. "They said, 'Score us after 100 days.' We haven't seen that in a politician."
Ms. Smith and nine other local civic and business leaders were lauding Mr. Gingrich and his Contract in an informal meeting the other day at the Chamber of Commerce, across from City Hall, which is ringed by a sculptured moat that is home to a group of swans.
"We're still not convinced that it's all going to happen," said Tim Bray, the president of a land development consulting company. "But this is the best opportunity we've seen."
The consensus was that the easing of Federal mandates and the proposed capital gains tax were among the most important items in the Contract. "Historically, when they have cut the capital gains tax rate, they have raised more money," said Jim Bruner, the tax lawyer.
But he and most of the others said they did not think that it was possible to cut taxes for the middle class and balance the budget. And balancing the budget, they said, was more important. They were also disappointed, they said, that the term-limits proposal had failed.
They became most animated when they turned to welfare and the Republicans' insistence on getting welfare recipients to work.
"There's a personal reward in earning something," Ms. Smith said.
Mr. Bruner, who as a boy worked in his father's hardware store in Iowa, said welfare recipients needed to assume more responsibility. "Why work when you get a check?" he asked. "They get food stamps, free medical, they don't pay taxes. Pardon the expression, but when you keep popping out more kids, you get more money."
Still, the group said that people should be gradually phased off welfare and that the disabled should continue to receive help. "We're not a third world country," Mr. Bruner said. "We're not going to throw people on the street who cannot help themselves."
 
Ypsilanti, Mich.
Bigger Worries Close to Home
 Americans are buying cars again. Outside the Motor City, in Ypsilanti, the men and women at the General Motors Powertrain plant are working overtime making transmissions for Cadillacs.
That is what James Bell, a welder operator, has been doing in the past 100 days, working, 12 hours a day, six days a week. "Yeah, we're making it," said Mr. Bell, 39, who has three children. "Making it on 12 hours a day."
But the auto workers do not expect it to last. Down the road is a reminder of how tenuous is their hold on the American Dream: the Willow Run Assembly Plant, where once 4,500 men and women had jobs making Chevrolet Caprices. General Motors shut the plant three years ago.
Mr. Bell, like many other auto workers, believes in the union and Democratic ideals. Michigan's conservative, tax-cutting Republican Governor, John Engler, may be a role model for the new Congress, but he is no hero on the assembly line.
"All they've talked about is what they can take away from poor people and give to the rich," Mr. Bell said. "They want welfare reform, but they're not providing jobs."
Ken Crane, 56, a machine repairman at Powertrain, is an independent, who supported Ross Perot for President. Asked about the last 100 days, Mr. Crane did not talk about the Contract.
"My father died last Friday," he said. "He was 87. My mother is in a nursing home. I visit her several times a week. My wife's mother has breast cancer. She's being operated on today. My son, who is 27, lives with us. He has a maintenance job at Big Boy. He was born brain damaged and can't drive. So my wife takes him to work and I bring him home."
There is some talk that the transmissions made now at Powertrain may eventually be moved to another plant. With mortgages to pay and families to feed, Mr. Crane and many of his co-workers were more concerned with their own contract, with General Motors, than with the Contract with America.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 1995, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday about reaction to the Contract With America transposed the names of two friends of Lonnie Parcell, a Pittsboro, N.C., man who called the contract a political ploy. Bill Burgess was to Mr. Parcell's left; John Goldston was on his right.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PITTSBORO, N.C. John Goldston, left, Lonnie Parcell, center, and Bill Bergis outside of Stacey's cafe. (Duane Hall for The New York Times); YPSILANTI, MICH. Peter B. Fletcher, standing, moderating a meeting of Republicans at Max's Deli. (Peter Yates for The New York Times); SCOTTSDALE, ARIZ. Tim Bray, left, Diana Smith and Jim Bruner on a sculpture in the Scottsdale Civic Plaza. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (70%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (70%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX CONSULTING (75%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); GUN CONTROL (62%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995



291 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Tears Shed 50 Years Ago Remain Frozen in Time

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: HYDE PARK, N.Y., April 12

 BODY:
For Donald Gross, now 63, it was the first time he had seen his grandfather cry. Albert Gore Sr. was on his way to the dry cleaners when he met a man weeping uncontrollably. When Millie Ashley heard the news, she stopped picking cotton in a field in Wabbaseka, Ark., and thought to herself, "Well, everything's gone now."
Fifty years ago, Franklin Delano Roosevelt died at 63 of a cerebral hemorrhage at Warm Springs, Ga., on a balmy Thursday afternoon. Just as the death of John F. Kennedy is a moment frozen in time to those old enough to remember 1963, so members of an older generation can still recall with photographic vividness where they were, what they were doing and what they felt on that day when F.D.R. complained of "a terrific headache" and then collapsed in a straight-backed chair. 
 Although the memories now date back half a century, many still remember the voices of the announcers who interrupted radio shows like Captain Midnight and Front Page Farrell to deliver the news. In the hour after Roosevelt's death was disclosed, the New York Telephone Company handled its heaviest traffic ever up to that point.
For many of those who remember the day, Roosevelt was the only President they had known. In his 12 years as President, Roosevelt was a heroic figure who had guided the country through the Depression and through a war that would end shortly after his death. Despite a vague awareness by some Americans that Roosevelt's health was failing, most considered him both physically and politically invincible.
The shock hit many the way it hit Roosevelt's Vice President and successor, Harry S. Truman, who said he "felt like the moon, the stars and all the planets had fallen on me."
"There was a feeling of devastation," said Edna Gurewitsch, a Manhattan woman who remembered the word spreading through her college library, whispered table to table.
"I'll tell you why," said Mrs. Gurewitsch, who became a friend of Eleanor Roosevelt after Franklin's death. "It's what we miss today. He was a President who spoke to everyone individually. So when he died, they felt they had lost a friend, not a President."
Today, hundreds of Roosevelt admirers, many of them students and soldiers in those days, streamed to the home here where the 32d President was born and where he was buried in a rose garden enclosed by a 15-foot hedge of hemlock. In a cool mist, they commemorated his death with a ceremony that bore many touches of the one 50 years ago, including a gray-uniformed honor guard from West Point and a 21-gun salute fired at 3:35 P.M., the minute that Roosevelt was declared dead.
Roosevelt's body traveled by train from Warm Springs to Washington, where a memorial service was held in the White House, and then to Hyde Park for burial. Because Roosevelt wanted no epitaph, a white marble stone marks the ivy-covered graves of Franklin and Eleanor.
Fifty years later, it is hard to imagine a public figure whose death would inspire such universal grief, and such searing memories.
William E. Leuchtenburg, a Roosevelt biographer and historian at the University of North Carolina, remembers hearing the news from a radio blaring from the Greenwich Village apartment of a woman he was picking up for a date. "I was silent for a few minutes and then I remember the first thing I said was, 'My God, Harry Truman is President,' " he said.
Mr. Gross, 63, a retired newspaper researcher from Franklin Square, L.I., said he would never forget the sight of his grandfather crying. "He took it very hard," he remembered. "I had never seen him cry, but he cried at that time. The whole family thought he was next to God, I guess."
Mrs. Ashley, an 83-year-old former sharecropper, also remembers weeping. "I was working in the cotton patch," she said. "After President Roosevelt got to be President it got to be pretty good because he did a minimum wage so people could live. When he started, we got 35 cents for a hundred pounds, working sun to sun when you were chopping. We was getting $2.35 when he died."
Mr. Gore, 87, the Vice President's father, was a Congressman at the time. "I was up the street from where we lived and I think I was en route to a laundry to get some shirts," he said. "I met a man who was weeping deeply and loudly and with tears flowing plentifully. He had just heard about the death of President Roosevelt. This, of course, was a shock to me. I did proceed to recover my shirts and then I returned and my dear wife and I together privately wept ourselves."
It is also hard to imagine a leader whose legacy would still play such a prominent role in public debate. The 50th anniversary of his death comes at a time when both President Clinton, a Democrat, and Speaker Newt Gingrich, a Republican, have laid claim to Roosevelt's durable symbolism, even as historians debate whether Mr. Gingrich is undermining the legacy of the New Deal.
"He must be turning over in his grave," said Thea D. Fry, 57, a first-grade teacher from Chappaqua, N.Y., as she visited Roosevelt's tomb. "What impresses me with him is he did not come from a working-class background and he did so much for the people who found themselves in those circumstances. Now it seems that things are going in reverse, that people who need help are being cut out, the school lunches, the aid to dependent children."
But other visitors argued that Roosevelt's legacy was more complex than simply a belief in big government and a controlled economy.
"In his era, the term workfare did not exist, but I think that's what he believed in, not just a handout," said Presley D. Holmes, a retired broadcast producer from Pensacola, Fla. "The principle behind what's being done he would find acceptable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mourners marked the 50th anniversary of the death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt yesterday at the place where it all began, and ended, with Roosevelt's burial. They gathered in Hyde Park, N.Y., at the home where the 32d President was born and where he is buried beside his wife, Eleanor. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON NEW YORK INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HYDE PARK (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (50%); TRAINS (50%); 

PERSON: ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945); SACK, KEVIN JOHN F KENNEDY (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



292 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: At Border, Mexican Migrants Wait and Worry

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Mexico

 BODY:
The years of hard labor that people from this desert town have done in San Diego restaurant kitchens and the lettuce fields of the Salinas Valley have crowded the streets here with pickup trucks and put satellite dishes on some of the adobe homes.
About one-quarter of the 13,000 residents of this town in north-central Mexico live mostly "on the other side," as they call the United States. 
 And with a small empire of Mexican restaurants scattered among the migrants in the United States, there are always jobs there to beckon the young men and women who come of age in Santo Domingo without much hope of finding work at home.
People here say they have been thinking harder about heading north in the three months since the devaluation of the peso sent inflation soaring, the economy into recession and thousands of workers to the unemployment lines. But many here also say the decision is not as easy as it once seemed.
"The dollar is the only thing that is going up now," said Agustin Chavez, a 22-year-old elementary school teacher. "But everyone says it is harder to get to the other side. It costs you much more. It is not like before."
Despite a sharp increase recently in the number of migrants caught sneaking into the United States, it is still far from clear that Mexico's economic turmoil will flood the United States with illegal job-seekers.
For poor Mexicans wanting to emigrate, the cost of getting to job markets in California, Chicago or New York has risen considerably, according to dozens of would-be immigrants interviewed along the border in Tijuana and in two central Mexican states, San Luis Potosi and Zacatecas.
Even in communities like Santo Domingo, where travel back and forth from the United States remains a way of life, there is anecdotal evidence that the United States Border Patrol's increased enforcement efforts around San Ysidro, Calif., and El Paso are beginning to discourage some Mexicans from even trying to cross the border.
The permanent settlement in the United States of many Mexicans who used to come and go seasonally has also reduced the pool of potential migrants.
And for those Mexicans with relatives sending money back from the United States, the value of those dollars has risen sharply with the peso's devaluation.
"People are still alive here thanks to the money that comes from the United States," said the Mayor of Santo Domingo, Alvaro Rodriguez Luna. "Things balance out. The prices go up, but the money that comes from the other side has also gone up."
Clinton Administration officials cited the threat of illegal immigration as a critical reason for the $20 billion United States contribution to a $50 billion international loan package for Mexico.
In mid-January, the Treasury Department estimated that "a protracted economic crisis" in Mexico could mean an increase of more than 30 percent in illegal immigration, or about half a million new economic refugees a year.
That Mexico faces a serious economic crisis is unquestioned; how long it will last remains to be seen. The Government of President Ernesto Zedillo has forecast a 2 percent shrinkage of the economy this year, and the loss of about a million of the country's 26 million jobs.
According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, arrests by Border Patrol officers along the United States-Mexican border were 9.6 percent higher in January than during January 1994. In February, the increase was 37.6 percent; in March, 40 percent.
But such figures may be deceptive. Most obviously, the numbers do not necessarily reflect the real flow of undocumented migrants because the Border Patrol has traditionally counted arrests rather than individuals, who are often apprehended more than once.
The jump in arrests is probably in part a consequence of a bigger and more effective Border Patrol: more agents, the redeployment of others and the addition of equipment like night-vision scopes, electronic sensors and better radios.
The migrant traffic is also shifting: more Mexicans are sneaking into the United States in less-patrolled areas like Nogales, Ariz., and Del Rio, Texas, and more are using forged identity documents to pass through checkpoints.
The young urban Mexicans who are increasingly supplanting the seasonal farm workers of past migrations may be more able to pay for such documents.
But looking ahead, a more effective Border Patrol and a growing hostility toward undocumented immigrants in California and other border states will likely discourage at least some Mexicans from leaving home.
Draped over a tree limb near the Tijuana airport as he peered over a metal fence at San Ysidro, Calif., Adrian Lopez Arana seemed a case in point.
Hoping to join a brother who was making $100 a day as a construction worker in Los Angeles, Mr. Lopez, a 23-year-old mason from Morelia, said he had been caught by the Border Patrol two days earlier and dumped back in Tijuana.
He had spent a good chunk of his savings on buses, hotels and food, he said, and the coyote, or smuggler, whom he had hired to lead him across had absconded with an advance that Mr. Lopez had given him.
"I'm going home," he moaned. "My brother said all I had to do was find a coyote at the bus station and I would be there the next day. He didn't tell me about this."
In the farming village of San Jose de Caliguey, near Santo Domingo, young men who had been back and forth to the United States before said that not only was the crossing more difficult, but the cost was becoming almost prohibitive.
"I would go tomorrow but I don't have the money," said Mario Loera, 22. "It used to cost you 300 pesos to get to Ciudad Juarez and $100 for the coyote. Now it is double. That is two or three cows, and I do not have any."
Whatever the Border Patrol's success, most experts believe that Mexico's economic troubles will inevitably bring some increase in the flow of migrants, and history suggests as much. In 1993, the year after the collapse of the Mexican economy led Latin American into its debt crisis, the arrests of undocumented immigrants in the United States rose about 35 percent.
Yet a study that compared the probability of immigration in the relatively prosperous period between 1975 and 1980 to the five years thereafter found a rise of only about 15 percent, according to the author, Manuel Garcia y Griego, a demographer at the University of California at Irvine.
"I think it would be foolish to assign all of the increase, or even most of it, to economic considerations," Dr. Garcia y Griego said of the rise in Border Patrol arrests. "I don't think we can ignore the impact of the devaluation, but that impact has not played out yet."
Part of what has changed since Mexico's economic troubles in the 1980's, noted another American immigration expert, Wayne A. Cornelius of the University of California at San Diego, is that many Mexicans who sought jobs in the United States in earlier times have stayed in the north under the amnesty of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.
Many of those Mexicans are no longer sending dollars back to their relatives, but a boom in the transfer of such remittances by others suggests that the stronger dollar may keep other potential migrants at home in Mexico.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Alvaro Rodriguez Luna of Santo Domingo meets with people in San Jose de Caliguey, where migrant workers say the crossing into the United States is becoming more difficult and more expensive. (Francisco Mata Rosas for The New York Times.)
 
Graph: "Halted by the Border" shows total detentions of illegal immigrants by the U.S. Border Patrol along border with Mexico during the months of Jan., Feb. and March in 1994 and 1995 (Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); DEVALUATION (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); RECESSION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); TRENDS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (52%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



293 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: THE SURPRISING BID FOR CHRYSLER: THE STRATEGY;
What's Kerkorian Up To, Anyway?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The turnaround of the Chrysler Corporation -- from an almost bankrupt also-ran to the most profitable car maker in America -- is one of the most impressive stories in American industry. But investors have been loath to believe that the good news will continue as the economy slows, and they fear losses when the next recession arrives. As a result, Chrysler's stock price has risen far less than its profits.
Kirk Kerkorian, the 77-year-old financier who owns 10 percent of Chrysler, thinks the stock is too cheap, and by all accounts is very frustrated that it has been getting cheaper. So far Mr. Kerkorian has spent about $676 million buying his stake, which was valued at $1.4 billion at Tuesday's trading price, and has collected $95 million in dividends from the company. 
 But that considerable profit is on paper only, and if he started selling his shares, the price would tumble. So his offer to buy the rest of the company -- assuming he can arrange the financing -- appears to be an effort to cash in one way or another:
Either another buyer will appear and top Mr. Kerkorian's bid, enabling him to walk away with a profit of at least $1.3 billion, or in a few years Mr. Kerkorian and his partners will sell Chrysler back to the public at a significant profit, having proved the company can withstand an economic downturn.
It's a bold strategy, and the risks for Mr. Kerkorian are twofold. If he does not follow through with a serious offer, his credibility in any future deals will be damaged. Cynics were quick to note that no financing had been lined up before Mr. Kerkorian went public, though he did hire Bear, Stearns & Company yesterday as his financial adviser.
And if Mr. Kerkorian should complete the acquisition, the risk is that Chrysler, financially weakened by his plan to use most of the company's huge cash reserves as partial financing for the deal, could stumble in an economic downturn. Mr. Kerkorian would then be stuck with a company that was posting big losses and was unattractive to buyers.
The price offered by Mr. Kerkorian appears very low -- if you believe that Chrysler's improvements are permanent. In 1994 Chrysler earned $3.7 billion, or $10.11 a share. Before Mr. Kerkorian's offer, the stock was trading at only 3.9 times those earnings; his bid of $55 a share amounts to 5.4 times those earnings. That is still a very low multiple; many companies trade at 20 or 30 times earnings, or even more. The software giant Microsoft, for example, is trading at 34 times its 1994 profit.
Why is Chrysler trading at such a low multiple of earnings? First, there is widespread doubt that it will come through the next recession without losing money, the expectations of its fans notwithstanding. John Neff, manager of the Windsor Fund, whose largest holding is Chrysler stock, said Chrysler had done such a great job of restructuring and cutting overhead that even in a recession it would earn about $2 a share.
That is, of course, not its history. Chrysler lost more than $2 a share as recently as 1991. And it appears that Chrysler's management has its own doubts. It has built a cash hoard of more than $7 billion, in part to give it the financial flexibility to withstand a downturn.
Mr. Kerkorian proposes to take $5.5 billion of that money and use it to purchase Chrysler shares, clearly betting that the company will not need the cash. But such a buyback could be dangerous if he is wrong and Chrysler finds that it needs cash it no longer has.
Another reason for Chrysler's low stock price is that investors have doubts about the company's new products. Its latest car models have not had huge success and have faced some criticism about product quality. Its durable, market-leading mini-vans, being redesigned for the next model year, face their first strong challenger in the successful Windstar from Ford. Chrysler's profitable four-wheel-drive vehicles also face increased competition.
But Chrysler is not alone in selling at a low multiple of earnings; so are General Motors and Ford, with multiples of seven and five, respectively. Wall Street learned long ago that a company whose profits are heavily influenced by the strength of the economy should not sell at a very large multiple of its earnings at a cyclical peak, which many people believe is now. In an acknowledgment that the future looks less bright, both Chrysler and General Motors this week cut back their forecasts of 1995 auto sales, citing higher interest rates as one area of concern.
The declining dollar has been a plus for American auto makers, by making Japanese and German imports more expensive in this country. But the share prices of the Big Three have shown no benefit: Chrysler had lost 20 percent of its value before yesterday, while Ford has produced a small gain and General Motors has been about even.
Mr. Kerkorian first bought Chrysler shares in 1990, during the last recession, when there was much hand-wringing about the future of the company. Big losses were expected for 1991 and Mr. Kerkorian was able to buy 22 million shares at an average price of $12.37. He added to his position in late 1991, paying an average of $10.13 a share, and bought more in 1993 at $38.75 a share.
Those purchases looked brilliant in early 1994, when Chrysler's stock peaked at $63.50. But share prices then fell steeply. Mr. Kerkorian paid $47 a share for his last purchase of stock, in December 1994, only to see the share price fall to $39.25 on Tuesday, before his offer of $55 a share. The stock closed yesterday at $48.75, up $9.50 on the day.
So while Mr. Kerkorian has a large paper profit on his Chrysler investment, he has been frustrated that the stock has not moved up in tandem with the company's profitability. In November, when the share price was about $45, he called on Chrysler to declare a stock split and raise its dividend. It increased the dividend, to $1.60 a share a year from $1.20, but the share price rallied only briefly.
The step he took yesterday is highly unusual in the annals of Wall Street. First, no one has yet committed even $1 to finance the bid. Mr. Kerkorian said he would put up $2 billion, while Lee A. Iacocca, the former chairman and chief executive of Chrysler, would invest $50 million. But those figures simply reflect the value of their current stakes in Chrysler, at a price of $55 a share. The money to buy out the other shareholders is supposed to come from other investors and lenders that have not even been approached.
In addition, the offer has absolutely no provisions to discourage other bidders. And strikingly, a spokesman for Mr. Kerkorian, Alex Yemenidjian, said other offers were welcome. He also talked of an "exit strategy" for Mr. Kerkorian to get out of his Chrysler investment within five years. Presumably, that would involve selling stock to the public again.
Mr. Kerkorian, having done his best to talk up the price of Chrysler stock, seems to be willing to take on the whole company at $55 a share. It is clear that -- if earnings stay up for a few years -- Chrysler would have no trouble paying back the huge borrowings needed to finance the transaction. And if they do not? Then paying back the debt could be much more difficult. Leveraged buyouts work best in companies that have dependable cash flows. Auto companies do not fit that description.
Wall Street remains dubious -- doubtful that another bidder will surface and suspicious that Mr. Kerkorian may not really want to do the deal. Even after the price of Chrysler's shares climbed yesterday, it was still 11 percent below the $55 that Mr. Kerkorian said he was prepared to offer.

GRAPHIC: Chronology/Graph: "Kerkorian and Chrysler: A Timeline"
 
1. Dec. 14, 1990 -- Kirk Kerkorian 's investment company, Tracinda, says it has acquired 22 million shares at an average price of $12.37 a share.
 
2. Oct. 10, 1991 -- Tracinda sayse it has bought 6 million more shares at an average price of $10.125 a share.
 
PUB-DATE: August 3, 1992
 
4. Feb. 5, 1993 -- Tracinda buys 4 million more shares, part of a 46-million-share secondary offering, at $38.75 a share, maintaining its stake in the company at about 10 percent.
 
5. Nov. 14, 1994 -- Mr. Kerkorian writes to the board outlinging steps he wants taken to benefit stockholders, including buying shares and increasing the dividend. The board later agrees to some of the requests.
 
6. Dec. 29, 1994 -- Tracinda buys 4 million more shares at about $47 a share.
 
7. Yesterday -- Tracinda says it intends to buy the 90 percent of Chrysler it does not already own at $55 a share.
 
Graph tracks daily closing stock prices for the Chrysler Corporation since 1990. (Sources: Chrysler Corporation; Tracinda Corporation; Datastream; Bloom berg Financial Markets) (pg. D1)
 
Graphs: "Wall Street Sours on Cars" tracks share price as a multiple of earnings for the previous four quarters. Lines begin when each company started to turn a profit. In general, a relatively high ratio is a sign that investors feel the company's earnings are likely to grow. (pg. D1)
 
"A Wild Day for Chrysler Stock"
 Mr. Kerkorian's plan to buy Chrysler was announced before trading began yesterday. Chrysler opened $13.25 above Tuesday's close, and after a day of heavy trading, it closed at $48.75, up $9.50. (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (65%); MICROSOFT CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUTOMOBILES; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES CHRONOLOGIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); RECESSION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: KERKORIAN, KIRK; NORRIS, FLOYD KIRK KERKORIAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



294 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Commemorating Roosevelt's Death, Democrats Praise His Legacy of Liberalism

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WARM SPRINGS, Ga., April 12

 BODY:
Fifty years ago today, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the visionary President who led the nation out of the shadow of the Great Depression to the brink of victory in history's first global war, died in this tiny spa southwest of Atlanta.
Roosevelt had come here, as he did more than 40 times in his Presidency, seeking relief from the effects of the polio that had left his legs paralyzed. When he succumbed to a cerebral hemorrhage in the first year of his fourth term, American troops under his command were crossing the Elbe River in Germany, 60 miles from Berlin, and fighting on Okinawa, the last stepping-stone to the home islands of Japan. 
 He was 63 years old. Hated as well as loved in his lifetime, Roosevelt has since come to be seen as the greatest President of this century and as one of the greatest of all.
Both President Clinton and Speaker Newt Gingrich, a Georgian, have claimed the mantle of the great New Dealer. But it was Mr. Clinton who came to Warm Springs today to celebrate Roosevelt and his works and to denounce public cynicism and disunity in contemporary America.
"I wish that President Roosevelt were here," Mr. Clinton said, "to deride those who are cynical, those who are negative, and most of all, those who seek to play on fears to divide us. This country did not get here by permitting itself to be divided at critical times -- by race, by religion, by region, by income, you name it."
Mr. Clinton said at commemorative ceremonies that "even though Roosevelt was the architect of grand designs, he touched Americans, millions of them, in a very personal way." His own maternal grandfather, the President recalled, "really thought Franklin Roosevelt cared about whether he had a job," though he was only a poor farmer.
"He showed us how to be a nation in a time of great stress," Mr. Clinton said of Roosevelt.
Mr. Gingrich has seized not upon Roosevelt's themes but his techniques, especially his proclivity for bold experimentation, even borrowing the phrase "100 Days" to describe the initial phase of the Republican takeover of Congress. But Mr. Gingrich's assertions were rejected today, sometimes angrily, by speaker after speaker, although none mentioned his name.
No Republican officials came here to state their case.
Indeed, the ceremony turned into a paean to Democratic liberalism, full of vows that its day would come again.
Roosevelt was remembered as the father of the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Securities and Exchange Commission and other Federal agencies that Mr. Gingrich and many of his followers disdain as bloated bureaucracies. He was lionized as a founder of the United Nations, another frequent target of the conservatives on Capitol Hill.
Fifty years ago, as today, the azaleas and the dogwoods were in riotous bloom here as Roosevelt spent a busy morning signing letters and documents. Then, before lunch, he posed, for the artist Elizabeth Shoumatoff.
With them in the living room of the Little White House, a low frame building where he spent holidays throughout his Presidency, were three other women, all close friends: Lucy Mercer Rutherfurd, who was at one time his mistress, Laura Delano, a cousin, and Margaret Suckley, a neighbor from the Hudson Valley who was one of his closest companions in the final years of his life. Eleanor Roosevelt was not here.
At 1 o'clock, the butler came in to set the table for lunch. Suddenly, Miss Shoumatoff later recalled, "he raised his right hand and passed it over his forehead several times in a strange, jerky way." Then the President's head slumped forward.
Miss Suckley went to his side. She described the scene in her journal, which, entitled "Closest Companion," has just been published by Houghton Mifflin.
"He looked at me with his forehead furrowed in pain and tried to smile. He put his left hand up to the back of his head and said, 'I have terrific pain in the back of my head.' "
Then he collapsed. Carried to his bedroom, he died about 3:15 P.M. without regaining consciousness.
In London, Churchill said, "I felt as if I had been struck a physical blow." He mourned the loss of "this shining personality." In Moscow, Stalin advised that an autopsy be performed to see if Roosevelt had been poisoned.
As the news poured from radios, many Americans learned for the first time what the words "cerebral hemorrhage" meant. All across the country, signs appeared in shops and restaurant windows saying, "Closed out of Reverence for F.D.R."
Today, former President Jimmy Carter, whose home in Plains, Ga., is only 90 miles from Warm Springs, and Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia joined Mr. Clinton and a crowd of several thousand for the memorial ceremony. Mr. Carter was one of five people honored with medals by the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute.
In a brief, pungent speech, Mr. Carter described as "a travesty" Republican claims to be carrying on the Roosevelt tradition. Roosevelt was interested in the poor, the former President said, and the Republicans are interested in the rich.
Two veterans of the New Deal traveled to Warm Springs to mark the occasion: John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard economist, now 86, who served in the Office of Price Administration, and David Ginsburg, 83, a Washington lawyer who served as a Presidential speech writer under Samuel I. Rosenman.
Also on hand were four of Roosevelt's two dozen grandchildren -- Christopher, whose father was Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr., and who lives in Chappaqua, N.Y., and Anne, of Chicago, Michael, of San Francisco, and James Roosevelt Jr., of Boston, all children of James Roosevelt. Four great-grandchildren were here.
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., one of the most noted of Roosevelt's biographers, who worked in the Kennedy White House, quoted from Roosevelt's second inaugural address to rebut the recent Republican claims to the Roosevelt political inheritance.
"The test of our progress," Roosevelt said then, in 1937, "is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have little."
William vanden Heuvel, president of the Roosevelt Institute, which helped organize today's event, said in an interview that Roosevelt "would have laughed at guys like Newt Gingrich and Jesse Helms; he wouldn't have taken them seriously." Mr. vanden Heuvel said he had nevertheless invited Mr. Gingrich to the ceremony last January but never received a response.
The institute's board issued a statement denouncing what it termed, "A partisan attempt to appropriate F.D.R.'s name by those who seek to dismantle his works and distort his legacy."
But Mr. Clinton argued, in a talk with reporters on board Air Force One as it flew from Washington to nearby Fort Benning, that Roosevelt would have supported certain aspects of the Republicans' Contract With America. The two he mentioned were the bills he signed into law: the effort to reduce Congressional mandates for which Federal money is not provided and the requirement that members of Congress live by the same laws as everyone else.
In the interview, Mr. Clinton said the nation's needs had radically changed since the New Deal, a point Mr. Gingrich makes, too.
"We don't need the kind of big, centralized, organized, top-down sort of projects that we had," the President said. "We can have smaller, less bureaucratic, more entrepreneurial, flexible Government because we're living in a totally different time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After President Franklin Delano Roosevelt died on April 12, 1945, in the Little White House at Warm Springs, Ga., his body was taken to Washington on a special train. Two days later, at Union Station, Roosevelt's coffin was loaded on a caisson for a procession to the White House. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARM SPRINGS (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); LIBERALISM (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (84%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); PARALYSIS (71%); CONSERVATISM (64%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945); APPLE, R W JR NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



295 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Warm Springs Journal;
A Town Still Feels Franklin Roosevelt's Presence

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: WARM SPRINGS, Ga., April 12

 BODY:
This tiny west Georgia town was decked out in ribbons and bunting today, and the predominant color was a funereal purple in memory of an adopted son. Even the pine trees were dressed in mourning, draped shawl-like with vines pendulous with sweet-smelling, purple wisteria blossoms just as they were 50 years ago when Franklin Delano Roosevelt's funeral cortege made its passage from the Little White House here through town to the train depot.
Year by year, the number of townsfolk who remember seeing and talking with the nation's 32d President during his twice-yearly visits dwindles. But while the once-vivid image of the wealthy Yankee who tooled about the area in his roadster is becoming more blurred for some, it remains indelible as myth for others. 
 "We all hesitate to tell Roosevelt stories because it has all blended into myth and legend, and nobody is sure whose memory it is," said Johnny Wilkes, 48. His father was director of the state park next to the Roosevelt property and often went horseback riding and raccoon hunting with the President. "I don't know where my parents' stories leave off and someone else's pick up."
What is clear is that this town of 400 can mark its life, its near death and its economic health by Roosevelt's comings and goings, his passing and his memorializing.
Roosevelt first came to Meriwether County in 1924, three years after he was stricken with polio, drawn here by the soothing powers of the warm, 88-degree mineral springs.
The specter of a polio sufferer in the city's spring-fed public pool at first drove away many who were, mistakenly, fearful of contagion. The local economy dipped for a time, but Roosevelt pumped it up by investing a part of his fortune. He bought 10,000 acres on nearby Pine Mountain and established the Warm Springs Foundation as a therapy center with private pools for polio patients, bringing in jobs and doctors.
Diane F. McInvale, whose grandfather Oscar Bulloch sold Roosevelt's Meriwether Reserve Inc. some 300 acres for $3,750, said the town thrived during Roosevelt's visits as Governor of New York and then President. The number of patients and families drawn by the rehabilitation institute grew. And the poor rural area around this Roosevelt retreat became a laboratory for some of the President's programs to end the Depression and improve rural life.
The Works Progress Administration built the city's fieldstone community building and the Civilian Conservation Corps paved roads, dug reservoirs and cleared park land here while the Rural Electrification Act brought cheap power.
"The town would be abuzz getting ready for his visits," Mrs. McInvale said, and townsfolk considered Roosevelt one of their own. Here his infirmity was at once lavishly indulged in the springs while local residents respected his privacy.
Tommie Grace Souter, 88, the Miss Georgia of 1925, recalled when the President and his wife, Eleanor, invited the Warm Springs Women's Civic Club to the Little White House.
"I was sitting next to him and he was getting up to address us," she said, "and, you know, he had these crutches and he couldn't get up too well, and he knocked a dish of ice cream into my lap and on my new green dress.
"Oh, but he was so charming and apologized profusely, so it was all O.K."
Jeff Hill, 72, remembered the time he missed the bus to the local Boy Scout camp and set out walking the three miles when a roadster stopped to pick him up. Roosevelt was driving with special hand controls, and Henry Ford was along for the ride. The President was the picture of power and control, speeding down the road in that gleaming machine, his head thrown back in a throaty laugh or raising his hand in his trademark, "Hiya, neighbor."
And through it all, Mr. Hill said, he never thought of Roosevelt's polio and withered legs.
"He introduced me to Henry Ford," Mr. Hill said. "I was impressed. I was in awe."
After Roosevelt's death in 1945 and the discovery of the vaccine for polio in 1954, the town and the foundation declined. But the center turned to other disabilities, reorganizing in 1980 as the state-financed Roosevelt Warm Springs Institute for Rehabilitation. About the same time, some businesswomen from Atlanta, about 60 miles to the northeast, bought the downtown block of Victorian buildings to create a clutch of 7 restaurants and 65 shops to attract visitors.
Now, this once solidly Democratic district gave the Republican candidate for governor in November 37 percent of the vote, the highest Republican total ever, said Probate Judge Idus Robertson of Meriwether County. One is as likely to find a Republican here applauding the current efforts to shrink the Roosevelt-inspired Government programs as a dyed-in-the-wool Democrat who condemns them as political apostasy.
But Mr. Roosevelt transcends politics in Warm Springs, and his 21-year relationship with the town and his effect on lives here is intact in fundamental ways. Take Mr. Robertson, who at 58 recalls not being much impressed by the President himself as an 8-year-old but being riveted by the Marine security detail that road the running boards of the President's car.
"Now they were something, and I always liked that," he said wistfully, adding matter-of-factly that when he grew up he joined the corps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WARM SPRINGS FOUNDATION (61%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARM SPRINGS FOUNDATION (61%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARM SPRINGS (GA); UNITED STATES (91%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (84%); FAMILY (78%); STATE PARKS (72%); HORSES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (69%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (60%); 

PERSON: ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945); SMOTHERS, RONALD FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



296 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
DOCUMENTS SUGGEST WAR CRIMES
A former member of the Serbian secret police has come forward with documents that could incriminate President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia as a war criminal. A1
An attack on Sarajevo reflects the stalemate in Bosnia. A12
U.S. TO WARN JAPAN ON TRADE
The Clinton Administration plans to warn Japan that it will move to impose several billion dollars in punitive tariffs unless significant progress is made soon in opening Japanese markets. A1
MEXICANS WAIT AND WORRY
It is far from clear that Mexico's economic turmoil will flood the U.S. with illegal job-seekers. Many Mexicans say the decision to go north is not as easy as it once seemed. A3
QUESTIONING GAZA'S NEW JUSTICE
Two trials of Islamic militants this week represent the first time that Palestinians have sentenced their own people to jail for violence against Israelis. But they have also raised questions about justice. A10
ISRAELI DEFENDS PEACE TALKS
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told critics that Israel would suffer more suicide attacks if it were to break off peace negotiations with the Palestinians. A10
A student killed in Gaza is buried in New Jersey. A10
EX-GENERAL ORDERED TO PAY NUN
A U.S. judge ordered a former Guatemalan general to pay $47.5 million to an American nun who was tortured and eight Guatemalans who were terrorized in the 1980's. A13
 
Britain said it would withdraw 400 troops from Ulster. A5
Nelson Mandela reinstated his wife to her Government job. A7
Europeans are trying to block a Congress move against Cuba. A9
Athens Journal: Greece falters as Pandandreou grows frail. A4
 
National A16-23, B8-9
 
EASING UP ON WELFARE
Republican governors submitted a welfare proposal to the Senate that is less harsh than the bill passed by House Republicans. A1
STUNNING BID FOR CHRYSLER
The billionaire Kirk Kerkorian stunned Wall Street and the auto industry by offering $22.8 billion for Chrysler, in a deal that would be the largest takeover since RJR Nabisco was acquired for $25 billion. A1
HEART-DISEASE FISH STORY
The more fish you eat, the better you will be protected against heart disease. That was the popular theory, but it may not be valid. A1
COLOR-BLIND ADOPTION
An unusual coalition of liberals and conservatives is pressing for adoption policies that do not take account of race. A16
HOMICIDE CHARGE AGAINST LAB
A laboratory was charged with reckless homicide for allegedly misreading Pap smears that could have saved the lives of two women. A16
BOY'S OVERWHELMING BURDENS
A teen-ager whose family was burdened by crushing medical bills apparently killed himself after getting a $154.50 ticket for speeding, the police said. A22
ENDANGERED-SPECIES CHANGES
Senator Slade Gorton of Washington, helped by lawyers from industries affected by the Endangered Species Act, unveiled a bill to make major revisions in the act. A20
MARKING F.D.R.'S DEATH
President Clinton denounced public cynicism and disunity on the 50th anniversary of the death of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. B8
PRESSING A CONSPIRACY THEORY
O. J. Simpson's lawyers suggested that the man who gathered blood evidence was part of a police conspiracy to frame their client. B9
 
A study offers promise for an Alzheimer's disease therapy. A19
 
 
Metro Digest B1
 
DESEGREGATION SUIT DEFEATED
Civil rights advocates were handed a sharp defeat in a school-desegregation lawsuit when a judge ruled that the isolation of poor minority children in Hartford's schools was not the state's fault. A1
Business Digest D1
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
On city financing and the arts. C11
Performing-arts library gets $12.5 million gift. C15
Theater: "Travels With My Aunt." C11
Dance: Puerto Rican troupe. C11
Music: Critic's Notebook. C14
The Pop Life. C12
Film: "Jury Duty." C14
Books: McNamara concedes. C16
TV: "A Rugrats Seder." C16
"The Ultimate Round Trip." C16The Home Section C1-8
At home with Gerre Hancock. C1
Sports B11-17
Baseball: Trading card makers hope busness will pick up. B11
No new commissioner in sight. B15
Mets' Butler tutors Thompson. B14
Football: Rams given approval to move to St. Louis. B11
Basketball: Anthony to get post-season playing time. B12
Columns: Anderson on the Mullen brothers B11
Hockey: Rangers notch victory over Sabres. B11
Devils turn back Capitals. B13
Islanders take the measure of Panthers. B13
Olympics: New status for surfing, ballroom dancing. B13
Obituaries B9-10
Paul Akst, colonel who led New York's Draft Boards. B9
Bonnie Bird, dancer. B9
Annie Fischer, pianist. B10
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials
Harvard's unseemly haste.
Making democracy safe for Dole.
The museum.
Ms. Bhutto's wish list.
Letters
Frank Rich: Tin cans and string.
William Safire: Iraq's ton of germs.
Andre Aciman: In a double exile.
Chronicle D26
Bridge C15
Crossword C9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (52%); A10 ISRAELI DEFENDS PEACE TALKS (65%); A3 QUESTIONING GAZA'S NEW (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: A10 ISRAELI DEFENDS PEACE TALKS (65%); A3 QUESTIONING GAZA'S NEW (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); SENTENCING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TORTURE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); JUDGES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); ADOPTION LAW (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); TAKEOVERS (66%); GOVERNORS (62%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (60%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



297 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Industries Affected by Endangered Species Act Help a Senator Rewrite Its Provisions

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: STEVENSON, Wash., April 12

 BODY:
Taking aim at what may be the nation's most powerful environmental law, Senator Slade Gorton of Washington today unveiled a bill that would scrap major provisions of the Endangered Species Act. The bill, likely to be the main effort in the Senate for Republicans who want to change the act, was written largely by the industries that will be most affected by its outcome.
In a speech before timber industry executives meeting in this resort town on the Columbia River, Mr. Gorton announced a plan to do away with most of the strict requirements to save plants and animals that biologists say are heading for extinction.In their place, he would allow a political appointee -- typically, the Secretary of Interior -- to decide when, how and whether to save a species. 
 Some changes would be retroactive, said Mr. Gorton, the Republican leading the efforts to overhaul the act in the Senate. "It doesn't undo everything that's been done. But I suspect it would end up having that effect."
Since passage of the Endangered Species Act 22 years ago with broad bipartisan support, the law has been responsible for saving hundreds of species. But it has also come under strong attack by industries and communities that say they have suffered economic hardship. The best-known fight of the species act, over whether to save the northern spotted owl, has led to reductions in logging on public land.
Under Mr. Gorton's bill, the Interior Secretary could ask, "Is this species so important that a single person should lose their job over it?" the Senator said. If the answer is no, then, he said, little or nothing would be done to save the species.
The draft of the bill, which Mr. Gorton plans to introduce after Congress returns from its spring recess, was written by a group of Washington, D.C., lawyers who represent timber, mining, ranching and utility interests that have been most critical of the law.
"Senator Gorton laid out his thoughts to us, he asked for help and we gave it to him," said Robert Szabo, a lawyer with the National Endangered Species Reform Coalition, which represents 185 groups and companies, including Chevron U.S.A. Inc. and Kaiser Aluminum and the Chemical Corporation.
When asked whether it posed a conflict of interest to have groups draft legislation in which they have an economic stake in the outcome, Mr. Gorton said, "I don't think that's how good public policy should be made, but I'm perfectly willing to get the free services of good lawyers in drafting my views."
Members of the coalition also contributed $34,000 to Mr. Gorton's re-election campaign last year, according to the Federal Election Commission. Mr. Gorton said the contributions, in money and in help drafting the law, are no different than the services environmental groups have offered other politicians in the past.
A memorandum, dated Feb. 28, 1995, to Mr. Gorton from his legislative aide Julie Kays, and made public by environmental groups, shows the extent of the involvement of the industry groups. "The bill takes some getting used to, however, I think that the coalitions did a tremendous job of adopting your ideas and putting them into the bill," Ms. Kays wrote.
In an interview today, Mr. Gorton said he did not consult with environmentalists.
"I already know what their views are, and they don't want any changes" in the law, he said. Mr. Gorton added they would be heard when the bill went through the various committees. The Senator also said that Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt had offered him a suggestion that ended up in the bill.
But businesses that benefit from Federal efforts to save salmon, wolves, owls, grizzly bears and other species that have come under Federal protection reacted strongly to the Gorton proposal.
"These environmental laws are what protect our industry," said Glenn Spain, president of the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations, which represents West Coast commercial fishermen. "To ignore and disable these laws is a monumental mistake that could result in the loss of thousands of salmon-dependent jobs."
The Northwest is in the middle of a $2 billion effort to save the once prodigious runs of salmon.
Environmentalists say the Gorton proposal reflects a pattern in the new Congress to allow members of industries under specific regulation to draft the bills affecting their companies' fortunes. Such criticism was leveled in the House rewriting of the Clean Water Act.
"The task of rewriting our nation's most important environmental laws," said Michael Bean of the Environmental Defense Fund, based in Washington, "is being done by the major corporate interests whose practices created much of the problem in the first place."
Although President Clinton has said he would veto major changes in environmental laws, he has not been specific on individual bills. Mr. Gorton said his bill would be co-sponsored by Senator J. Bennett Johnston, a Louisiana Democrat who has been a crucial swing vote on past environmental proposals.
Mr. Gorton said it was likely that he would need at least 60 votes in the Senate, or enough to overcome an expected Democratic filibuster. But the bill could also run into trouble with Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, a longtime ally of environmentalists and a chairman of the committee that will hold hearings on the bill.
By midsummer, the House is also expected to pass a bill scrapping much of the species act.
Members of the timber industry, gathered here in the Columbia Gorge National Scenic area, said they strongly supported Mr. Gorton's proposal. Although lumber prices have reached a 21-month low, because of slack demand due to a drop-off in new home construction, some mills are still running short of logs, industry officials said.
The Administration's top official on forestry issues, James R. Lyons, an Agriculture Department Under Secretary, said parts of the Gorton proposal would be welcomed by the Administration. Mr. Clinton has proposed that many aspects of the species act not apply to small landowners, a group that has complained about the act's regulatory impact.
"Common sense conservation is what we're all about," said Mr. Lyons, in an interview here, where he also spoke to the timber industry leaders. "There are clearly cases where over-zealous regulation has run counter to the intent of the laws."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON USA INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ANIMALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; FLOWERS AND PLANTS ENDANGERED SPECIES (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LAWYERS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ANIMALS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); 

PERSON: GORTON, SLADE (SEN); EGAN, TIMOTHY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



298 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: THE SURPRISING BID FOR CHRYSLER: THE OFFER;
Investor Plans Offer for Chrysler In a $22.8 Billion Takeover Deal

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 12

 BODY:
With the support of Lee A. Iacocca, Kirk Kerkorian, the secretive billionaire investor who is the biggest shareholder of Chrysler, astonished Wall Street and the automotive industry today by saying that he would bid for complete ownership of the auto maker.
The deal, valued at $22.8 billion, would be the largest takeover since RJR Nabisco was bought more than six years ago for $25 billion. Mr. Kerkorian said he would offer investors $55 for each of their shares, 40 percent higher than the closing price of $39.25 on Tuesday. At the proposed price, the 10 percent stake that Mr. Kerkorian holds in Chrysler would be valued at nearly $2 billion. 
 Mr. Kerkorian, who is 77, may be more interested in driving up the value of his shares than in running an auto company, some analysts said. Shares of Chrysler soared to more than $50 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange today, before falling to close at $48.75, up $9.50 on the day.
Chrysler said tonight that its board would review the proposal. But at a meeting today to consider a letter from Mr. Kerkorian outlining the deal, the board concluded that the company was not for sale, Chrysler said. The board noted that Mr. Kerkorian had lined up almost no financing and was threatening to drain the company's cash reserves.
"We don't want to put Chrysler at risk," said Robert J. Eaton, chairman and chief executive of Chrysler.
Some auto analysts and investors said they were skeptical that the takeover would help Chrysler, which has made one of the biggest corporate turnarounds of the 1990's. In three years Chrysler has gone from an industry disaster to the most profitable auto company in the United States. It has learned to produce stylish vehicles -- like Dodge Ram pickup trucks and Chrysler Cirrus sedans -- far faster than its domestic competitors. It has Dodge Ram pickup trucks and Chrysler Cirrus sedans -- far faster than its domestic competitors. It has reorganized, shedding thousands of jobs and selling nonessential businesses.
Further, the proposal by Mr. Kerkorian could hobble Chrysler with debt when the company most needs the freedom to maneuver. Industry sales have slowed and some competitors are gaining on the biggest Chrysler money-makers like the Jeep Grand Cherokee.
Associates of Mr. Kerkorian said it would not cost him or Mr. Iacocca, who as the retired chairman and chief executive of Chrysler holds $50 million of Chrysler stock, another penny to buy the company, the No. 3 auto maker in the United States. Instead, the two men plan a leveraged buyout reminiscent of the easy-money takeover deals of the 1980's. To buy the company, they hope to line up other investors, possibly including another auto company; borrow more than $10 billion and raid the cash reserves of Chrysler.
Mr. Kerkorian's lieutenants emphasized that he was delighted with Chrysler's management and performance. He offered none of the traditional reasons investors give to justify a buyout offer, like the need to improve efficiency, cash management or product strategy. Thus, many experts speculated that the takeover offer might simply be a grand attempt to increase the stock price of Chrysler and make more money for Mr. Kerkorian and the Chrysler stockholders.
"We believe the market continues to undervalue Chrysler stock," said Alex Yemenidjian, an executive with Tracinda, Mr. Kerkorian's company in Las Vegas, Nev., which holds his Chrysler stock.
Until today Mr. Kerkorian had a handsome profit in theory of about $737 million from first buying Chrysler shares five years ago, when the company was again in distress. But those profits exist only on paper, because Mr. Kerkorian could not sell his 10 percent stake without causing the stock price to plummet.
Like all auto stocks, shares of Chrysler have languished -- on Tuesday the shares were trading near their 52-week low -- because of the perception that the auto market is weakening. Last fall Mr. Kerkorian pushed the Chrysler board to raise the dividend and buy back shares. Chrysler capitulated and the stock price rose briefly, but then resumed its descent.
If he buys the company, Mr. Kerkorian could sell it to other investors or take it public again in two to three years and cash in on his investment, possibilities that Mr. Yemenidjian acknowledged today in a lengthy briefing for reporters.
Some auto stock analysts said they believed that the goal of Mr. Kerkorian was to force Chrysler to buy him out at a premium or draw other companies into the bidding, allowing Mr. Kerkorian to sell his stake at a substantial profit.
"I suppose there is a number at which we would be sellers rather than buyers," Mr. Yemenidjian said during the conference call with reporters today. But, he added, "We're not focused on an exit strategy."
Other analysts and investors said Mr. Kerkorian truly wanted to buy the company. "I think there's a 90 percent probability that it's a sincere offer," said Chet Needelman, chief executive of Palley-Needelman Asset Management, a firm in California with more than two million Chrysler shares.
Mr. Needelman said it would be difficult for the Chrysler board to turn down the offer. "If the board doesn't accept, and another bidder does not come forth, the price of the stock will fall," he said.
Mr. Kerkorian has retained Bear, Stearns & Company to advise him on his bid, according to Alan C. Greenberg, chairman of Bear, Stearns. Chrysler has retained CS First Boston, a unit of CS Holdings, as an adviser. Bear, Stearns has worked closely with Mr. Kerkorian in the past, handling his investments in Viacom, the entertainment company, as well as Chrysler.
Indeed, Mr. Kerkorian has a strong record for making money from his raids on companies. He has built and controlled many companies, but he has also pressed executives until they bought back stock from him at fancy premiums, as were the cases at Western Airlines and Columbia Pictures.
Shares of Chrysler, which soared in early trading today, fell as the news briefing by Mr. Yemenidjian continued and analysts and traders questioned the Kerkorian plan.
The Chrysler board could decide either to accept Mr. Kerkorian's offer or invoke the company's anti-takeover mechanism, which is activated when a hostile buyer purchases more than 15 percent of the company's stock. If that occurred, Mr. Yemenidjian said, Tracinda might sue Chrysler to invalidate that mechanism, which dilutes the shares held by the hostile party.
If not enough shareholders agree to tender their stock, he said, Tracinda would seek a merger with Chrysler.
Mr. Yemenidjian repeatedly said that Mr. Kerkorian did not intend to intervene in managing the company. He said Mr. Kerkorian would not lay off workers, and might even seek a new stock ownership plan for employees. Mr. Iacocca, he said, would only advise, and would not become the chairman of Chrysler or an officer of the company. Mr. Iacocca is 70 years old and retired as chairman at the end of 1992. Mr. Yemenidjian said Mr. Iacocca and Mr. Kerkorian would not comment.
"The last thing we want to do is interfere," Mr. Yemenidjian said. In fact, he said, "This management team can function a lot better if it doesn't have to worry about quarter-to-quarter results for Wall Street."
But Mr. Yemenidjian also endorsed strategic changes that conflicted with the often repeated goals of Mr. Eaton, the chairman and chief executive of Chrysler. Mr. Eaton has repeatedly said that he shuns joint ventures or other alliances among auto makers, because the fortunes of the companies inevitably diverge.
Mr. Yemenidjian, however, said Mr. Kerkorian intended to form such alliances. "The company has to diversify globally through strategic alliances," he said.
Mr. Eaton has assiduously stored $7.6 billion in cash to see Chrysler through the next downturn without once again swerving toward bankruptcy. But Mr. Yemenidjian said Chrysler was efficient enough to survive a recession, with $2 billion in cash and $2 billion in credit.
Mr. Kerkorian has not lined up financing for the deal, but anticipates no problems doing so, Mr. Yemenidjian said. If approved by Chrysler, the deal would take about six months to complete, he said.
To take over Chrysler, Mr. Kerkorian and Mr. Iacocca intend to contribute their shares, lining up at least $3 billion more in equity from other partners, Mr. Yemenidjian said. They would also use $5.5 billion from the Chrysler cash cushion. And they would borrow $10.7 billion, with a "significant amount" of it coming from banks, he said.
Mr. Yemenidjian argued that the takeover had nothing in common with the disastrous leveraged buyouts of the 80's. "This is not a deal of the 80's," he said. "In fact, this is the way deals should have been done in the 1980's."
But analysts said they were worried that Chrysler would stagger under the debt of the takeover. "Is it really wise to add this much debt to a highly cyclical company at the top of the market?" asked Maryann N. Keller, auto industry analyst with Furman Selz in New York. "There is certainly a high level of skepticism about it on the Street."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kirk Kerkorkian (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Lee A. Iacocca (Reuters/Bettman) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STOCKS AND BONDS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; KERKORIAN, KIRK; IACOCCA, LEE A KIRK KERKORIAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



299 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to Threaten Japan With Tariffs in Trade Dispute

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration, frustrated by nearly two years of fruitless negotiations with Japan over American autos and auto parts, will warn Tokyo that it will move to impose several billion dollars in punitive tariffs unless major progress is made in opening Japanese markets in the next three weeks.
The strategy, which has been under formulation for several weeks, was approved at the White House today during a meeting of top Cabinet officers and other officials dealing with trade, senior officials said today. 
 The highly confrontational approach has been hotly debated within the Government, in part because of fear that it could poison relations as the two countries are trying to use the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II to stress a "global partnership."
Administration officials clearly have a strong motive to disclose -- and perhaps inflate -- their resolve to move to sanctions, in hopes that the threat will make the punishment unnecessary. But many officials say they have a feeling that a major confrontation is in the offing because Japan has drawn the line on trade concessions in the auto area.
The sharp fall of the dollar against the Japanese yen has also persuaded several top Administration officials that they can no longer afford to wait. American officials have already told the Japanese that broad market openings are one of several steps needed to bring the currencies back into line, and that theme is expected to be hit hard this weekend, when Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin meets his Japanese counterpart, Masayoshi Takemura, in Indonesia at an annual meeting of Asian finance ministers.
The United States has complained that the Japanese systematically buy their auto parts from Japanese companies in which Japanese auto makers frequently hold investments and that Japanese auto dealers are not permitted to carry imported cars without the permission of Japanese manufacturers.
The Administration also contends that extraordinarily high costs make foreign investments in dealer networks difficult and that Japan places high customs-clearance costs on imported vehicles.
Only in the last two years, though, have American companies begun offering a variety of cars with steering wheels on the right side, as cars are built and driven in Japan. And over the last 20 years, American companies were reluctant to invest in parts plants and auto factories when this would have been much less expensive.
Japan has also charged that the United States is using exchange rates as a weapon to force Japanese bureaucrats and business executives to agree to a broad range of policy changes. Mr. Rubin has denied this.
The next negotiating session on auto issues, which account for more than half the American merchandise-trade deficit with Japan, is scheduled to begin on Monday in Washington.
An Administration task force has already been established to draw up a list of Japanese products that would be subject to 100 percent tariffs unless Japan makes what one senior official today called "enormous leaps" during meetings scheduled over the next several weeks.
Several officials said the list would be announced at the beginning of May and would go into effect 30 days later unless an accord was reached. The same tactic worked in negotiations with China earlier this year over the protection of American copyrights and trademarks and resulted in a last-minute agreement.
The threat of sanctions has worked with Tokyo before, notably in arguments over the construction industry and access to cellular phone markets, but it backfired during the Reagan Administration, when American companies argued that they were paying far higher prices for goods made only by the Japanese.
"We can't worry anymore about the weakness of the current Japanese Government or the reaction of the Japanese bureaucracy," a senior official said today. "Sometimes you have to decide to act as a great economic power."
Autos have always occupied a special place in Japanese trade politics, largely because the industry is central to both the American and Japanese economies. Equally important, the auto makers are among the biggest sources of financing for Japanese politicians at a time of extraordinary political turmoil. The Keidanren, the biggest Japanese business organization, is now run by a member of the Toyoda family, the founder of Toyota.
Moreover, the strong yen is working against America's negotiating interests. With the yen so high, Japanese manufacturers can only run up big profits in their home market, where they sell their goods in yen. Prices in the United States, where revenue comes in cheaper dollars, cannot be significantly raised without losing market share.
As a result, Japanese officials are less likely than ever to agree to greater competition at home, especially on auto parts, which account for $107 billion in business. American estimates indicate that only 2.4 percent of those parts are imported; in the United States about a third of all auto parts are imported.
The Japanese argue, accurately, that they have vastly expanded their purchase of American auto parts in both Japan and the United States. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which protected and nurtured the Japanese auto industry for three decades, argues that American car-parts exports to Japan have risen to $3 billion last year from $400 million in 1986, more than a sevenfold increase in eight years.
Parts bought and used by Japanese companies in the United States increased from to roughly $17 billion $2.09 billion over the same period. The biggest surges have come in the last two years, as Japanese companies have attempted to make good on promises to President George Bush during a trip to Tokyo in 1992.
Mr. Clinton's economic aides have been talking for months about taking a far tougher stance on the auto issue, asserting that the Japanese have continued to be intransigent in the negotiations, and pointing to the growth of the trade deficit -- much of it in autos and auto parts.
They also seem to sense that the political climate here may be changing in their favor: Japanese auto companies have greatly slowed their investment in the United States, in favor of building plants in Southeast Asia and throughout the developing world.
"We always used to get undercut by people on the Hill who saw a chance to get a plant in their district," a longtime trade official said. "And the Japanese played that card brilliantly. But now, no one is getting new plants."
Already there are signs that domestic car sales are slowing, a shift that always translates into increased pressure on Japan.
But this is hardly a new fight, and the Japanese are ready. They are likely to contend that sanctions would violate worldwide trade rules, and they have threatened to seek a ruling from the World Trade Organization, the successor to the secretariat of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
But in the meantime, the sanctions will be running, potentially hurting Japanese auto makers at a time they can little afford it.
The Japanese-American arguments over cars have been going on in one form or another for four decades. Until 1953, the United States held a 60 percent share of the Japanese auto market. By 1960 it had dropped to 1 percent, as the Government protected the market.
"This is an issue we should have solved more than a generation ago," Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, said last week. Mr. Kantor, fresh from his victory in China, has been among the most vocal advocates of a need to take a harder line. "I've said many times that we're not going to wait forever," he remarked.
American officials will not acknowledge any link between its auto strategy and the strength of the yen, but clearly one exists. Japan's trade surplus creates an excess of dollars and a scarcity of yen, a problem the Japanese once solved by buying American assets -- buildings, Treasury bonds, factories. But those days seem over for the foreseeable future, in part because Japanese banks are going through a liquidity crisis.
As a result, market openings -- and the chance for American companies to use the weak dollar to compete heavily on price -- are becoming all the more important. And there is no shortage of examples of how American companies could benefit if they had greater access to the market, especially in parts.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Driving the Deficit" shows U.S. trade deficit with Japan from '86 to '94 (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (98%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (81%); AMERICAN COS (60%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (98%); INDONESIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); CUSTOMS (TARIFF); JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (54%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



300 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Stays Subdued, With Consumer Prices Climbing 0.2%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
New Government figures released today showed clearly that one of the few remaining symptoms of inflation was actually caused by the medicine the Federal Reserve used to fight it.
Consumer prices rose a modest two-tenths of 1 percent in March, the Labor Department found, with a sizable chunk of the rise representing automobile finance charges, a result of the Fed's increases in interest rates during the last 14 months. 
 Despite what is now four full years of economic growth, during which prices for many raw materials has soared, inflation at the retail level remains remarkably subdued.
"An abundance of cheap labor is keeping costs under control," contended Robert J. Barbera, co-chairman of Capital Investments International, a New York research firm, referring to what he said were huge numbers of third world people willing to work for $10 a week and who are increasingly part of the world economy.
"You can handle the price of copper going up if the price of labor isn't," Mr. Barbera said, noting that American companies have at the same time been forced to become highly efficient because of customer resistance to higher prices.
Today's report on the Consumer Price Index -- which followed surprisingly benign inflation at the producer, or wholesale, level on Tuesday -- were widely regarded as more reassurance that inflation remains under control. And while the financial markets showed little reaction to today's report, further increases in interest rates seemed increasingly unlikely.
As a result of this week's figures, "we believe the prospect of the Fed raising rates in May is even more remote," Laurence H. Meyer, an economic consultant in St. Louis, said. The attention should go instead to the magnitude of deceleration in the economy, now headed for what he predicted would grow at just a 1.8 percent pace in the current quarter, barely one-third as fast as the 5.1 percent pace in the final three months of 1994.
The consensus is for 2.8 percent growth in the first quarter, to be reported April 27, according to Blue Chip Economic Indicators. But some analysts expressed concern that inflation would still flare up. They noted that the Consumer Price Index climbed at a 4.1 percent annual rate in the first quarter, when the volatile food and energy components were removed, up from 2.7 percent during 1994.
"Prices at the commodity level are up sharply since the second week in March and those price increases haven't shown up in the Producer Price Index yet, let alone the C.P.I.," Eugene J. Sherman, economist at M. A. Schapiro & Company, said. And services, he noted, accelerated to an "unacceptable" 4.7 percent rate of increase in the first three months of the year.
Inflation was most visible last month in the transportation sector, which climbed six-tenths of 1 percent, despite lower gasoline prices and little change in the price of new vehicles.
Automobile finance charges rose another 3.5 percent to bring the 12-month increase to 32.8 percent, a direct reflection of the Fed's efforts to slow the economy to a sustainable pace to prevent an outbreak of inflation. This also was evident in another surge in the price of used cars, which climbed 1.7 percent in March to put them 15.9 percent higher than a year ago.
Many people, unable to afford new cars -- financed for an average $16,068 in January at a rate of 11.35 percent, according to the Federal Reserve -- have switched to the second-hand market. Used cars financed that month carried an average rate of 14.57 percent on a loan of $11,185.
Also pushing up the transportation index last month was a 3.4 percent rise in airline fares, the department reported. The fares, plus used cars and finance charges, accounted for more than one-third of the overall C.P.I. rise last month.
But the prices of food and clothing were unchanged, housing rose less than in January or February and medical care rose three-tenths of 1 percent for the third straight month to make a first-quarter rate of 3.8 percent, a full point less than for the latest 12 months.
Drugs and supplies, in fact, fell for the second straight month, continuing to moderate long after the death of the Clinton Administration's ambitious plan to overhaul the nation's health care system.
Patrick C. Jackman, a Labor Department official, expressed little concern about today's figures, including the rise in the first-quarter core rate, which he dismissed as inevitable readjustment among categories.
"I really don't see any evidence of pressures here," he said, noting that clothing and air fares would probably post declines for April.
Prices in the New York metropolitan area rose four-tenths of 1 percent in March but this, unlike other data, was without any adjustment for recurring seasonal variation. Nationally, the C.P.I.'s unadjusted rise was three-tenths of 1 percent.
The department's report also disclosed new frequencies with which various urban areas will be sampled when the C.P.I. is comprehensively updated in 1998. Indexes will be discontinued for Buffalo-Niagara Falls and New Orleans, while Baltimore and Washington will be combined.
Indexes for Philadelphia and San Francisco, now published monthly, will instead be put on a bimonthly basis.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "Consumer Prices" tracks percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted, since April 1994. Also shown is the March 1995 index for the U.S. and major metropolitan areas, along with the percent change from the previous month and year. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD M A SCHAPIRO & CO INC (60%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; AUTOMOBILES; PRICES; CREDIT PRICE INCREASES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BARBERA, ROBERT J ROBERT J BARBERA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



301 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. GOVERNORS URGE BIG CHANGES FOR WELFARE BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
Republican governors who helped shape the welfare bill approved by the House of Representatives say it still imposes too many restrictions on the states and are urging the Senate to give them more freedom to run their own welfare programs.
The governors have submitted a new proposal to the Senate that differs in significant ways from the bill written and passed by House Republicans. The governors' proposal would eliminate some of the harsher features of the House bill. That measure would prohibit the use of Federal money for welfare benefits to unmarried teen-age mothers, most legal aliens and additional children born to women already on welfare. The governors' proposal would let states decide whether to provide assistance to those groups. 
 The proposal, a copy of which was obtained from a state official eager to reach agreement with the Senate, was developed mainly by John Engler of Michigan, Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin and William F. Weld of Massachusetts, in consultation with other Republican governors.
The group has considerable influence on Capitol Hill. Thirty of the nation's 50 governors are Republicans, and they have strongly supported most of the Republican agenda in Congress, giving legitimacy to proposals denounced by Democrats as harmful to poor people and to state and local governments.
The governors worked closely with Speaker Newt Gingrich, and they support one of the biggest innovations in the House bill, giving each state a lump sum of money to operate its own cash assistance program for poor people. But the Republican governors did not get everything they wanted in the House bill, and they are redoubling their efforts in the Senate, where they have found a receptive audience.
Unlike the House bill, the governors' proposal would replace the Federal food stamp program with a block grant to the states, which could use the money to provide food assistance in any form they wanted.
The Republican governors' proposal would not touch the national school lunch program or the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, or WIC. The House-passed bill would convert those programs to block grants. Democrats and anti-hunger groups have harshly criticized this part of the House bill, saying the block grants would not expand to meet increased needs in recessions.
The governors' proposal would not set a Federal time limit on welfare. The House bill would set a five-year limit on welfare payments to most families.
The governors would give state officials much more flexibility and discretion than they would have under the House bill, which was approved on March 24 by a vote of 234 to 199.
House Republicans voted overwhelmingly for that bill, but many said they were torn between two impulses: maximizing state flexibility, in the name of states' rights, and imposing new Federal mandates on the states to save money and reduce out-of-wedlock births.
The governors would let states decide whether to provide welfare and food assistance to legal aliens.
Aides to several Republican governors said the block grants for the school lunch and WIC programs were not important to them. "The food stamp block grant is essential to welfare reform," said Gerald H. Miller, director of the Michigan Department of Social Services. "But we have not focused on the school lunch program."
In separate letters to Congressional leaders, several Republican governors have expressed concern about the House bill. While endorsing block grants in principle, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, Gov. George V. Voinovich of Ohio and Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois said the House bill contained overly prescriptive requirements and would disrupt innovative state programs.
"I strongly support the broad outline of the House proposal," Mr. Voinovich said in a letter to the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, but without more flexibility for states, "I cannot support this welfare reform package."
Governor Whitman said "the denial of benefits to teen parents, as well as to legal aliens, is contradictory to the purpose and intent of block grants," which are meant to enhance the authority of state officials in deciding how to spend Federal money.
State officials in both parties object to the provisions of the House bill that would deny Federal welfare benefits to unmarried teen-age mothers, legal aliens and children born to families already receiving welfare. They also object to the bill's five-year limit on Federal welfare benefits.
A. Sidney Johnson 3d, executive director of the American Public Welfare Association, which represents state and local welfare officials and agencies, said, "These prohibitions and proscriptions should be dropped so states have flexibility to shape their own welfare programs."
Mr. Voinovich said the House bill "does not include sufficient protections for states in the event of an economic downturn."
The bill would abolish the entitlement to cash assistance for poor people who meet eligibility criteria set by Federal and state laws. People now entitled to such aid would not necessarily receive it under the House bill.
The House bill would establish a $1 billion "rainy day fund" from which the Federal Government could lend money to states that have high unemployment. States would have to repay the loans with interest. Governor Whitman and Governor Edgar said the rainy day fund should provide outright grants, not loans.
Mr. Edgar also said the denial of welfare, food stamps and Medicaid to legal aliens would impose large new costs on states like Illinois that have many immigrants.
The House bill would establish detailed work requirements for welfare recipients, setting higher goals for each year until 2003, when half of all adults on welfare would have to be employed or participate in "work activities." Governor Edgar said it was inappropriate for the Federal Government to set the same "numerical participation goals" for all states.
The governors' proposal would give states broad new protection against lawsuits by people contending they had been improperly denied food stamps or welfare benefits. "Nothing in this title shall be construed to create or imply a right of action to require the payment of benefits, or a particular amount of benefits, to any person or class of persons," the proposal says.
For years, state officials have complained about financial penalties imposed on states for errors they made in calculating welfare and food stamp benefits. The governors' proposal would cancel most of the penalties levied before next Oct. 1.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New Proposals for Overhauling Welfare" lists major provisions from a proposal submitted by Republican governors to the Senate, asking for alterations in the welfare bill passed by the House last month. (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FOOD STAMPS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; GOVERNORS (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; STATES (US) GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); FOOD STAMPS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (75%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); REFUGEES (74%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (71%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); NUTRITION (61%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT NEWT GINGRICH (59%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



302 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: THE SURPRISING BID FOR CHRYSLER: THE INDUSTRY;
Uncertainty Ahead for U.S. Auto Makers

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The offer by Kirk Kerkorian to acquire the Chrysler Corporation comes at a time when the domestic automobile industry is in the best condition since the onset of the energy crisis in 1974. But prospects for the future are uncertain, as annual sales seem unlikely to grow very fast and more competitors vie for customers.
Last year the Big Three auto companies -- Chrysler, the Ford Motor Company and the General Motors Corporation -- reported combined profits of more than $14 billion, a record high. Though sales prospects have slipped somewhat recently, most forecasters are still expecting a good year, with total vehicle sales of more than 15 million cars and light trucks. 
 Today's domestic auto industry is vastly different from the one that was shaken to its foundations in the 1970's by cutbacks in oil from the Middle East. Rising gasoline prices drove customers from American made cars, which averaged 12 miles to a gallon, to Japanese cars, where an average of 30 miles to a gallon was easily achieved.
Driven to Japanese models by the need for fuel economy, customers came to prefer them for their quality and comfort, building loyalty to brand names that once seemed uncomfortably foreign.
The Big Three completed the transition from rear- to front-wheel- drive vehicles during the 1980's, which permitted the production of smaller, more fuel-efficient cars with almost as much interior room as Japanese models. Since then, the companies have refined those designs, installing more powerful -- but still fuel efficient -- engines and other features to increase the cars' appeal to customers.
New types of vehicles, like mini-vans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks with luxury-car interiors, have grown in popularity to the point where total sales have begun to approach those of cars. A big part of Chrysler's comeback from near-bankruptcy was its success in introducing a van that proved superior to station wagons for carrying children and groceries.
As the number of models has proliferated, so has the number of competitors in each segment and sub-segment of the automotive market.
"The industry is doing well right now, but there is a dark side," said John Schnapp, vice president and automotive specialist at Mercer Management Consulting in Lexington, Mass. "Overall demand is flat at best and there is more competition in every niche. In addition to everyone who is here, the Koreans are coming as well. That's going to cause suicidal pricing as the cycle turns down."
Nevertheless, most analysts maintain that domestic auto companies have made major progress in improving quality and reducing costs. The fact that Toyota went to the trouble of disassembling a Chrysler Neon model to study its design and engineering is an indication of how much progress the Big Three have made, analysts say.
Chrysler has been given high marks for designing and producing new models of cars and trucks more quickly than its domestic competitors. "Chrysler has had Babe Ruth-type home runs with its mini-vans, the Neon, the LH cars and its pickup trucks," Mr. Schnapp said.
The failure of General Motors to introduce models that arouse public excitement are a long-term problem for the company, despite its return to profitability. "Ford is there and Chrysler is there, but G.M. is not back in a competitive position in the market yet," said a retired auto executive, who requested anonymity.
Some analysts say Chrysler is basically a North American manufacturer and lacks the worldwide network of factories and marketing outlets that Toyota, Ford, Nissan and General Motors have already established. Though the weakness of the dollar gives North American producers a temporary advantage against auto manufacturers in Japan and Germany, most analysts think a global presence will be needed for long-term survival.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chrysler's 1996 Dodge mini-van at the current New York International Auto Show. The company is the target of a buyout offer from its largest shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, and its former chairman, Lee Iacocca. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Have Sales Peaked?"
 Vehicle sales go through up and down cycles. While projections for 1995 are for continued strong sales, the estimates have been revised downward from earlier figures of more than 16 million. Graph tracks annual estimates for cars and light trucks from 1970 through a projected 1995. (Source: Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Corporation [1995 estimate])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); OLIVER WYMAN GROUP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MINIVANS (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: KERKORIAN, KIRK; HOLUSHA, JOHN KIRK KERKORIAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



303 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Airbus Has Its Eye on Half of the Global Market

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: TOULOUSE, France

 BODY:
Boeing may scoff, but Airbus Industrie is serious: It wants to command half of the world market for large civilian aircraft by the next century.
One way to do it, its executives believe, is to make planes that are cheaper to buy and cheaper to operate than Boeing's. 
 For some time, Airbus has been the only real challenger to the Boeing Company's supremacy in transport production. Started in 1969 and backed by the Governments of Germany, France, Britain and Spain, Airbus has clawed its way to about a 30 percent share of the global market to Boeing's 50 percent.
In January, it made something of a splash by contending it had taken more orders last year than its American rival -- 125 versus 120. Boeing scorned the numbers as a fluke. Moreover, analysts said the American aircraft maker could get a spate of huge orders this year.
Airbus acknowledged that the milestone was mostly symbolic. Its actual deliveries last year totaled 123 aircraft, compared with Boeing's 271. And its revenue of $8.5 billion paled next to the American company's $21.9 billion. Airbus conceded that Boeing would probably maintain its 50 percent market share over the long haul.
But, it said, it wants the other half. And its main pitch -- that its planes are more cost effective than Boeing's -- resonated with a North American airline industry that is only now recovering from several years of losses.
Leading its marketing charge is John J. Leahy, a compact 44-year-old native New Yorker who formerly was with Piper Aircraft in the United States. Before joining Airbus headquarters in this southern French city as senior vice president for marketing, Mr. Leahy worked at the European consortium's North American subsidiary for 10 years, helping to mount a successful sales drive. The way he sees it, Airbus has long enjoyed a built-in cost advantage. By designing an entire range of aircraft from scratch, it was able to incorporate features that made its planes economical to operate. Engines were generally similar in type, reducing maintenance costs, and cockpits were virtually identical, making it easier and cheaper to deploy crews. Moreover, Airbus pioneered computerized flight systems, enabling airlines to reduce crews from three or four to two or three on many flights.
Such considerations swayed Air Canada into placing a hotly contested $1 billion order for Airbuses last May. The transaction tells a lot about Airbus's aggressive selling techniques.
Air Canada, reeling from two years of heavy losses, was trying to decide whether to refurbish its aging fleet of McDonnell Douglas DC-9's or replace them with Airbus's new A319's. It was already flying A320's, so buying the new models would have made a nice fit. What clinched the deal, though, was Airbus's offer to provide full financing on the sale.
"The No. 1 thing is unrestricted interchange of air crews, so that pilot productivity is phenomenal," Kym Robertson, an Air Canada spokeswoman, said. "Plus, the A319 and A320 engines are identical, so you have cost reductions on things like simulators and spare parts."
With the Air Canada deal fresh in mind, Mr. Leahy last year pushed through the idea for a new Airbus Finance Company based in Dublin that will eventually become Airbus's principal financing vehicle. It will also enable the big aerospace concerns in Germany, France, Britain and Spain, which own Airbus, to shift the cost of financing aircraft purchases by their customers from their own balance sheets to the finance company. That would decrease their risk in case of default, and maintaining their own borrowing capacity. Paul Ruddle, an analyst at S. G. Warburg in London, said this might give Airbus a competitive advantage over Boeing, since it separates the group's borrowing needs for aircraft finance from those required to develop new products.
Boeing's finance arm, however, does essentially the same thing. But to increase its borrowing capacity, Boeing has taken the reverse route. To develop its new 777 long-haul jetliner, for instance, Boeing turned to three big Japanese manufacturers, led by Kawasaki Heavy Industries, whose own borrowing capacity supplemented that of Boeing, thus taking pressure off Boeing's own balance sheet.
Air Canada also ordered six A340's to replace 20-year-old Boeing 747's on the airline's Toronto-Vancouver-Osaka, Japan, routes. Part of the reason was that Airbus persuaded the airline that its model's smaller size was more cost effective.
Although matching the range of the Boeing jumbo, the Airbus 340 has a seating capacity that is about two-thirds that of the jumbo, yet boasts the same "seat-mile cost" -- the price it costs to transport one passenger. When passengers, or cargo, are short, the Airbus is more profitable.
And because Canada's air-traffic treaty with Japan limits the cargo that Air Canada's jumbos can haul on passenger flights, Ms. Robertson said, "Our 747's are now flying with their upper cargo decks empty."
Mr. Leahy said that "in terms of seat cost, the 340 is the most efficient plane out." "From Toulouse to London," he added, "it takes less fuel per seat than if you took your car."
Mr. Leahy is also trying to convince airlines that by flying Airbus's 340 in place of Boeing's 747 they can attract passengers by offering direct flights from city to city, rather than making them fly jumbos from hub to hub, and then transfer to feeder flights.
"Take Tokyo, which is a very congested airport," he said. "How many people really want to fly to Tokyo? They want to go from Chicago to Seoul, or Chicago to Hong Kong. After a 12-hour flight, they sit around Tokyo airport for four hours waiting for a connection, when as a business traveler they want to go point to point."
Mr. Leahy appears to have convinced Singapore officials in the other big transaction of 1994. Last June, Singapore said it was splitting a major order for $10.3 billion worth of aircraft between Boeing and Airbus. The order was a blow not only to Boeing, but also to McDonnell Douglas, which had bid an upgraded version of its three-engine MD-11 long-range airliner, but was cut out by Airbus.
Boeing, meantime, has been responding to the Airbus challenge with its new 777, the twin-engine long-range jetliner that will begin delivery this year. Boeing is also expecting several major orders this year, notably from China and Saudi Arabia. And the American company brushes aside many of Airbus's boasts as wishful thinking.
"Any airline interested in maximizing revenues and minimizing costs is going to be matching the plane to the requirements, so we all have to provide planes for market niches," T. Craig Martin, a Boeing spokesman in Seattle, said. "And Boeing has the most extended family."
Mr. Martin rejected Airbus's claim that the 340 is the most efficient plane. He said that as an example Boeing's new 777-200B was as cheap to fly as the A340-300X but, with 30 more seats, the 777 had much lower seat-mile costs.
"Profitability is always based on a set of assumptions, and we're all expert on creating sets of assumptions that look good," he added. Mr. Martin said that Boeing had already moved to a city-to-city system, from a hub-to-hub system, on North Atlantic routes and it planned to do so worldwide. For all of Airbus's 1994 successes, it has also had setbacks. In recent months, two major American carriers, Continental Airlines and Delta Air Lines, announced they were discontinuing the few Airbuses they now fly, to simplify their fleet structure and rely mainly on Boeing as a supplier. Whether or not it meets its 50 percent market-share goal, Airbus is clearly a European success story. While it does not disclose earnings, Jean Pierson, the Frenchman who is the Airbus chief executive, said the consortium has been operating profitably sine 1990, and industry insiders estimate last year's pretax earnings at about $350 million, compared with Boeing's earnings of $856 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); AC.A (TSX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (77%); SPAIN (77%); 

STATE: MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE AIRBUS SAS (96%); BOEING CO (94%); AIR CANADA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (77%); SPAIN (77%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SALES & SELLING (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); 

PERSON: LEAHY, JOHN J; TAGLIABUE, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



304 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: 'Can You Hurl, Lad?';
A Sport Deep in the Irish Blood Is Running Thin in New York

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
Two thousand years ago, or so the legend goes, an Irish hero conquered a kingdom by wrestling a giant guard dog and shoving a ball down its throat. This was not just any ball. It came from the lightning-fast, rough-and-tumble, lacrosselike sport called hurling.
That pretty much sealed hurling's place as Ireland's national pastime. Ancient armies played it to warm up for battle, sometimes killing hundreds before the real fighting began. Fourteenth-century British rulers banned it: too Irish. Irish Republican Army supporters used hurley sticks to break up British Army recruiting classes. 
 And for decades, an Irishman coming to New York knew he could get a good job through the construction, carpentry or concrete unions if he answered yes to the important question: "Can you hurl, lad?"
But now, after decades of bare-handed catches and overhead smacks, the sport that runs so deep in Irish blood is running thin in New York.
This year, there are only five senior (top-level) and six junior teams, about half the number that existed in the 1960's. The Galway team, which had not missed a season since 1914, was forced to drop out for lack of players, a tragedy memorialized in a two-page spread in The Irish Voice, an Irish-American weekly newspaper.
And for the first time, the 12 American hurling teams outside New York City forbade New York to borrow their players, fearing it would draw too many hurlers from Boston, Chicago or San Francisco. "It's harder to get it going here," said John Madden of the Tipperary team. "It's too bad, you know. Hurling is the Irish soul. It keeps people alive in Ireland."
Behind the decline is a tale of immigration and assimilation in a community that has shrunk from a quarter of New York City's population to 7 percent. The laborers who were, for so long, the backbone of Irish New York are no longer coming in great numbers -- and they were hurling's rank and file.
Hurling, a rugged sport requiring tremendous skill and speed, has been buffeted by everything from cautious Irish-American mothers to the soccer fever of the World Cup. It is even being hurt by its own high standards, set when Irish toddlers would pick up hurleys and smack stones around on great green meadows.
"It's too hard to play," said Fergus Hanna, a sportswriter for The Irish Voice. "You really have to be reared with the hurley."
In hurling, 15 players (13 in the American version) send a baseball-sized ball, called a sliothair (pronounced slither), racing nearly 100 miles an hour down a pitch, or field, longer and wider than a football field. Points are scored by getting the sliothair into a goal or over its crossbar. To do this, hurlers catch the sliothair bare-handed, whack it like a hockey puck or run while bouncing it on the curved end of the hurley, a three-foot stick carved only from ash trees in Ireland.
There are still Sunday hurling matches in Gaelic Park, a hardscrabble field on the edge of Riverdale, the Bronx, where for 70 years or so, the brogues in the bleachers have barked and cheered, growled about Irish politics and wagered a few bucks here and there on the teams named after their native counties.
"Hit it on the ground, you clown!" screamed Therese Crowe, at age 60 a passionate fan and president of the Tipperary team, at the first game of the season, on Sunday.
John Kennedy, on the Clare team, spurted blood over his face and yellow shirt when he was cocked over his right eye by a Limerick player's hurley. "Just patch it up there," Mr. Kennedy told Ms. Crowe, who is also the sideline nurse. A few minutes later, head swathed in bandages, Mr. Kennedy was back in the game.
Two other players got yanked for brawling. And in the last few seconds, Clare surged ahead to beat Limerick, last year's champions, 16 to 15.
Top Irish hurlers have, in recent years, been courted by New York teams, who paid their air fare out of dinner-dance fund-raisers and barroom collections, and fixed them up with apartments or jobs. And New York teams -- legally allowed three Irish players -- have been known to fly in ringers who pretended they were Americans; hurlers joke about redheads who dyed their hair brown and O'Connors who somehow became Fitzpatricks.
"There was a time when practically 100 percent of people coming out from Ireland, their first stop would be Gaelic Park," said Terry Connaughton, past president of the New York Gaelic Athletic Association. "Now, they're interested in other sports. They'll go skiing or something, and of course, you can't blame them for that."
Dessie Costello is feeling it firsthand. Mr. Costello came to New York in 1985 during a burst of Irish immigration, most of it illegal, as people fled high unemployment in Ireland. He got a carpentry job and hurled for Westmeath. It was a golden age for the sport.
Now 40, Mr. Costello said he is too old for the body-bruising game. But as his generation retires, there are too few to replace them.
"There's a different type of Irish coming over," said John McDonald, who came from Kilkenny in 1992. "They have way more education than the former immigrants, better degrees. They are computer analysts and such."
Mr. Costello would love his son Kieran, 7, to play the game. But the other day, at training for the all-star hurling team in Van Cortlandt Park, Kieran squatted restlessly. "I like basketball," he proclaimed.
"The first generation Irish-American, they haven't attuned to it at all," said Norbert Hennessy, a leader of the Tipperary team and owner of Hennessy Headquarters, a pub near Gaelic Park. Folks still come on Monday nights to watch videos of Ireland's hurling matches, but the pictures on the walls and the marquee over the door reflect the bar's real bread and butter: soccer, especially since Ireland made the final rounds of last year's World Cup.
Hurling has only a handful of American-born players -- some actually raised in Ireland.
"American mums don't want to put their kid out there and get him chewed up with the hurley," said Cecily Rohan, president of the dormant Galway team. Helmets have not caught on with most hurlers, although young players in Ireland now wear them.
"I've lost more skin than would make a man," said Mr. Madden, sidelined with a pulled groin, his face pocked with hurley scars. "But at least my teeth are intact."
Even in Ireland, the sport is not at its height. There are still more than 100,000 hurlers, all unpaid amateurs, but the quality has dropped some, said Danny Lynch, a spokesman for Ireland's Gaelic Athletic Association, which has been sending coaches into schools to train young hurlers.
In New York, die-hards are determined to keep the game alive. The defunct Galway team held a $55-a-head dance Saturday to pay for last year's plane fares and regroup for next year.
"It'll never fade for good," Ms. Crowe said. "Our culture and our heritage will never die, believe me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hurling matches on Sundays in Gaelic Park in Riverdale have long given the Irish in New York a chance to cheer teams named after their native counties. A player used his hurley to move the ball, or sliothair, during a match between the Limerick and Clare teams. Below, John Kennedy of Clare was injured. He returned to the game. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GAELIC ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (94%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; IRELAND; UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURLING (SPORT); IRISH-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (88%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ARMIES (77%); BASEBALL (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); IMMIGRATION (67%); SOCCER (66%); REFUGEES (64%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); MILITARY RECRUITING (55%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



305 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Lessons for Bruno From His Own District and His Relatives' Good Fortune

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

 BODY:
JOSEPH L. BRUNO is the new majority leader of the New York State Senate, which makes him one of the three most powerful elected officials in state government. It is therefore of more than passing interest that he has this theory about black and Hispanic New Yorkers:
"They are the people that got their hands out," he said last week to Newsday. "They are the ones fighting for welfare." 
 The Senator's remarks ignore readily available facts, facts about the poor of New York that are easy to get and that make Mr. Bruno's comments sound crass. There are also facts that bear directly on the Senator's view of the world, facts about his unpoor relatives who have turned up on the state payroll since the Senator became majority leader in December. Talk about handouts.
Begin with a demographic lesson for the majority leader, Republican from Brunswick, about his own constituents.
Mr. Bruno represents two upstate counties: all of Renssalaer County and part of Saratoga. Both support people with public assistance, meaning state or Federal Supplemental Security Income; Aid for Families with Dependent Children; Home Relief. Lo and behold, most of those Saratoga and Renssalaer beneficiaries are white, understandably enough, since most of the inhabitants of those counties are white.
According to 1990 Federal Census data, 97 percent of the households in Renssalaer are headed by non-Hispanic whites, and 88 percent of the households on public assistance are non-Hispanic whites, a close statistical match. The same in Saratoga, where 98 percent of the households and 96 percent of those receiving assistance are white. (There are disproportions elsewhere in New York. Statewide, Census figures show, 40 percent of the households on public assistance, but 74 percent of the total population, are white. Hispanic and black New Yorkers make up 24 percent of the population, but 58 percent of those on public assistance.)
The obvious question for Mr. Bruno is whether he really believes that all people on welfare have "their hands out," or just black and Hispanic residents. What does he think of those on assistance in Troy? It is the largest city in Renssalaer, and so economically depressed it has still not recovered from the loss of manufacturing jobs. Another question is whether Mr. Bruno includes Medicaid recipients in his "hands out" category, since Renssalaer County has a large proportion of elderly residents receiving Medicaid.
Matters are clearly more complicated than Mr. Bruno suggested. His spokesman, John E. McArdle, says that the majority leader "knows full well the extent of the problem in his district, who is on welfare in New York State, and what the breakdown is."
Mr. Bruno's remarks were taken out of context, he said, adding, "He feels welfare is wrong, it is a problem that needs to be addressed and is not a problem that needs to be defined in racial terms or should be."
MR. BRUNO'S comments came as he attacked Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat whom he accused of representing the interests of "the lowest income people" over those of the middle class. After his words hit print, Mr. Bruno said he stood by his statements, and made a highly conditional apology to "those people that feel offended." But, he added, "I in no way apologize for the message that I was delivering."
Mr. Bruno might consider what message he sends by putting members of his family on the state payroll. Since he became majority leader in December, state government has become an employment agency for his family, even as he and Gov. George E. Pataki are urgently trying to slash the state budget, notably services to the poor.
Despite the budget crisis, Mr. Bruno's son Joseph is now a $45,000-a-year construction inspector in the Office of General Services. The Senator's son-in-law, Richard Hynes, is also in the Office of General Services, as an assistant to the commissioner, at $41,865 a year. Mr. Bruno's brother Robert just happened to find a newly created position of special assistant in the Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services, at $73,600 a year. Mr. Bruno's daughter Susan has been working since 1990 as executive assistant to the Assembly minority leader, a job that pays $34,600.
Mr. Bruno maintains that his relatives are qualified for their jobs. Maybe they are. They were certainly lucky to find jobs in this economy, even as the Governor dismisses others, to reduce patronage, he has claimed. Well, some patronage.
The Senator might ponder the good fortune of his relatives. He also might consider why he gives his relatives the benefit of the doubt, and belittles black and Hispanic New Yorkers who lack the training or connections to compete for his largess. Can he really not know that most of those on public assistance actually need help?
Maybe Mr. Bruno should consider treating the poor as relatives. That would be a really novel public policy: sympathy -- and patronage -- for all New Yorkers with their hands out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); BLACKS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); MEDICAID (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); CENSUS (72%); LAYOFFS (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) JOSEPH L BRUNO (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



306 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Are Unruffled by Chrysler Bid, With Dow Up 10.73

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market shrugged off a surprise bid for Chrysler and a mild inflation indicator yesterday, closing modestly higher.
Other markets were similarly unruffled. Bond prices rose slightly. The dollar rose modestly against the Japanese yen but fell against the German mark. 
 "Today was very confusing," said Bill Allyn, director of listed equity trading at Jefferies & Company, "It was a very mixed day."
But Paul Hennessey, senior vice president for equity trading at the Boston Company, said, "I think it was a good day over all, especially because you're going into a long weekend when people might not want to be long on stocks."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 10.73 points, to 4,197.81, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 rose 1.64 points, to 507.17. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 3.70 points, to 828.53.
Normally, a big takeover bid, like that of Chrysler, excites trader speculation in similar stocks and sometimes sparks a wider rally.
But the $20 billion bid for Chrysler by a group including the financier Kirk Kerkorian and Lee A. Iaccoca sent only Chrysler's stock soaring 9 1/2, to 48 3/4. Chrysler was the most active stock on any exchange at 33.8 million shares. Ford, however, was up only 7/8, to 27 5/8, and General Motors up only 1/8, to 44 1/4.
The deal should be important to the stock market. If the deal goes through, then some of the largest mutual funds in the country will get a cash windfall, analysts say.
Except for Chrysler, there was little news to move the market, especially before a long Passover and Easter weekend that starts for some traders late this afternoon.
Yesterday, the March Consumer Price Index rose an unexpectedly small two-tenths of 1 percent, but was no substantial surprise after Tuesday's Producer Price Index, which showed no change.
The indicators reinforced the market consensus that the Federal Reserve will not raise interest rates soon and cheered some traders who believe the Fed will not raise rates for the rest of the year.
But Motorola on Monday cast a pall on the market, traders say. The semiconductor and cellular telephone maker, which had been expected to report first-quarter earnings higher than Wall Street projections, reported profits that were slightly lower. Motorola is considered by some traders as a "cyclical stock" sensitive to trends in the economy.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was normal, with 327.9 million shares changing hands, about equal to this year's daily average of 327 million shares.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.75 point, to 274.04, with advancing stocks outnumbering declining stocks by 1,182 to 995. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 0.67 point, to 471.40.
Among the biggest gainers yesterday was Avid Technology, a computer software company, which rose 5 3/8, to 36 3/8, after several analysts issued buy recommendations after an Avid presentation at an industry convention.
H & R Block, the tax preparer, rose 4 1/4, to 46 1/4, after its chief executive, the son of the founder, announced his resignation, effective in August.
Among the big decliners was BGS Systems Inc., which fell 2, to 28 1/2, after an insider sold stock. According to Government filings, James S. McGuire, the computer software company's chief operating officer, sold 2,000 shares last Tuesday at $28.25 a share and on March 31 sold 2,000 shares at $28.50. The sales reduced his stake by nearly half from 8,435 shares to 4,435 shares
The Franklin Electric Company, which makes specialized motors, fell 1 3/4, to 31 1/4, after it reported on Tuesday a drop in first-quarter earnings to 25 cents a share from 48 cents a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (72%); BOSTON CO INC (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (85%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); EASTER SEASON (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); INTEREST RATES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); GERMAN MARK (57%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY KIRK KERKORIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



307 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasuries Increase A 2d Day on Inflation Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose for a second consecutive day yesterday, helped by a gain in the Consumer Price Index of only two-tenths of a percent.
Some market participants noted, however, that the market has now seen three good sets of figures -- last Friday's jobs data, Tuesday's Producer Price Index and yesterday's Consumer Price Index -- and has not really taken off. Part of the reason may be that small investors are staying away; another may be that expectations of a slowing economy with little inflation have already been priced into the market. 
 The 30-year bond rose 8/32 , to 10310/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, dropped to 7.35 percent yesterday from 7.37 percent on Tuesday.
Dealers and traders were generally cautious ahead of the short trading week going into the Easter weekend. Reports on industrial production and capacity utilization are scheduled tomorrow -- Good Friday -- when United States markets will be closed.
In another report issued yesterday, the Atlanta Fed said its monthly survey of business activity showed a slower pace of growth in March compared with the previous month. However, market reaction to the report was muted, traders said.
Today investors will get a look at March's retail sales, but trading will be shortened as the Public Securities Association, the main trade group for the public debt industry, has recommended that the Government securities market close at 2 P.M. in observance of Holy Thursday. The recommendation includes money-market and mortgage-backed securities trading.
Yesterday's report on the consumer prices for March showed a gain of two-tenths of a percent, lower than the average forecast of three-tenths of a percent; while the core rate, excluding the more volatile food and energy components, was up three-tenths of a percent, as expected. But some analysts feel that inflation is not as low as it should be.
Michelle Laughlin, chief economist at Sanwa Securities, said that through the first quarter of this year the inflation rate was running at 4.1 percent on an annualized basis, compared with a 2.6 percent inflation rate for all of 1994. "Last year in the first three months, the inflation rate was 2.9 percent annualized," she said. "This is a confirmation that higher input cost or raw materials gains are coming through to the consumer level."
Ms. Laughlin said the market might have been helped later in the morning when a CNW Research and Marketing report on car sales for the first 10 days of April showed considerable weakness. In fact, she said, the report noted that this was the slowest 10-day sales in autos in at least three years.
"I do think that the inflation news this week will keep the Fed in play for a tightening on May 23," she said. "The odds are low but not zero. The market has priced in a 30 percent chance of a rate increase, which I think is about appropriate."
In the municipal bond market, prices were little changed. Some investors were concerned that some housing bond issues could be hurt by proposed government revisions, including last month's plan to reorganize the Department of Housing and Urban Development to consolidate 60 major programs and result in three performance-based funds.
The fear is that many of the tax-exempt securities sold to fund subsidy programs could face potential ratings changes or early redemptions. The restructuring could even even raise the default rate on some housing bonds backed by rental aggreements if there are changes to the rent subsidy programs.
Housing bonds are popular with many investors because they offer higher yields than other tax-exempt securities. Other investors avoid them because they are often redeemed early and tend to lag when interest rates fall. Investors can get as much as 50 basis points more by buying housing bonds instead of similarly rated double-A revenue bonds.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (55%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (54%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (54%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EASTER SEASON (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHELLE LAUGHLIN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



308 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Steadier Against Yen As Rate Cuts Are Seen in Japan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar steadied against the Japanese yen and other leading currencies yesterday, helped by speculation that the Bank of Japan would cut interest rates when the Japanese Government announced an economic package tomorrow.
Lower Japanese rates could help the dollar by making yen-denominated deposits less attractive. But the Japanese discount rate, which acts as a floor for other money market rates, is already at a record low, at 1.75 percent, compared with the discount rate of 5.25 percent in the United States. 
 Still, any move by the Bank of Japan could have an exaggerated effect on the foreign exchange markets tomorrow and Monday because trading is expected to be thin. The financial markets will be closed tomorrow for the Good Friday holiday in the United States. And tomorrow and Monday are national holidays in London, the world's biggest center for currency trading.
In New York late yesterday the dollar edged up to 83.75 yen, from 83.55 yen on Tuesday. The dollar slipped to 1.4010 German marks from 1.4015 marks.
The Japanese Government is expected to announce measures tomorrow to combat the strength of the yen and its effects on the economic recovery in Japan.
"Actions in Japan will be very important for setting the tone for the yen," said Michael Perelstein, managing director of international investments at the MacKay Shields Financial Corporation in New York. "It's the one currency against which the dollar has not yet put in a strong bottom."
But many dealers said they doubted that the Government's package would help to weaken the surging yen. They argued that the only thing likely to reverse the gains of the yen against the dollar would be a significant reduction in Japan's trade surplus with the United States.
"The market is well aware that sometimes in the past these packages have been disappointing," said Dennis Pettit, foreign exchange manager at the Long Term Credit Bank of Japan.
In other currency trading, the Canadian dollar plunged, after Moody's Investors Service lowered its rating on Canada's debt. The changes were expected, however, and the Canadian currency recovered later.
"A lot of people had been waiting for this announcement to buy Canadian dollars," said Amy Smith, senior currency market strategist at IDEA, a consulting firm. "Some are probably disappointed there wasn't a bigger blowout."
The Canadian dollar settled at 72.68 cents (United States), up from 72.25 cents on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN MACKAY SHIELDS FINANCIAL CORP (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; JAPAN (99%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); TRENDS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); EASTER SEASON (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



309 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Battered but not broken, the honey lobby is back and winning.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
REMEMBER price supports for honey, the Federal largesse that was to agricultural subsidies what the $600 toilet seat was to military spending? In a gesture much noted at the time, Congress suspended the 44-year-old honey program in 1993. And last year President Clinton chose to honor the spirit of Congress's attack on the honey pot, denying the producers' plea for special protection against imports from Communist countries.
But the beekeepers, explains Greg Rushford, the publisher of The Rushford Report, a Washington-based newsletter on trade policy, have fought back, taking to heart one of the great maxims of modern lobbying: If at first you don't succeed, hire a better lawyer. 
 Prodded by Michael Coursey of the law firm of Collier, Shannon, Rill & Scott, the Commerce Department ruled last month that honey from China was being dumped on innocent American consumers and took steps to save them from the decadent pleasure of high-quality, low-cost imports. The story of how Mr. Coursey managed this feat says much about the ways in which United States trade law is rigged in favor of domestic producers -- and against common sense.
Washington put a floor under the price of honey in 1949, only abandoning it in the deficit reduction fervor of 1993. Battered but not broken, the honey makers then asked the Clinton Administration to limit imports from China, a major supplier of honey for breakfast cereals and other packaged foods. The tariff would have had the effect of a subsidy, but would have raised consumer prices rather than Federal spending.
The ploy almost worked. The International Trade Commission, a Federal agency, ruled that honey from a "Communist country" had indeed "disrupted" the market and recommended that the President block imports from the wily henchmen of Marx and Mao. But Mr. Clinton, who had seemingly invited the initiative with a conciliatory letter to the honey lobby's friends in Congress, denied the recommendation in April 1994.
Enter Mr. Coursey, the lawyer. He filed a suit charging that China was selling honey in the United States for less than "fair market value."
And what is fair market value? Under American law it is usually the foreigners' cost of production. But costs are difficult to reconstruct for "nonmarket economies." And although China's 28 honey exporters are in the vanguard of change in an economy rapidly evolving toward free markets, the Commerce Department decided that it would use prices from a third country to assay the value of Chinese honey.
The department chose India as the "surrogate." It used Indian prices -- wages, packaging material prices and, most important, the price of raw honey -- to figure what it cost the Chinese to prepare honey for export. And lo, the bean counters discovered it cost independent Chinese producers two and a half times as much to manufacture honey as they were charging their American customers. The department thus set tentative "dumping margins" -- that is, punitive tariffs -- of roughly 150 percent.
The figure is subject to review until August. Even then, the International Trade Commission would have to agree that American honey makers had been injured by Chinese exports to make the tariff binding. But since importers would be retroactively liable for a 150 percent duty if it passes muster, imports of Chinese honey have come to a screeching halt.
What's wrong with that? In Mr. Coursey's view, nothing. "Why should America be a dumping ground?" he asks. But the theory behind the statute, as well as its implementation in the case of honey, has to make one wonder.
The only plausible explanation for systematically selling below cost -- that the seller plans to drive rivals from the market and then raise prices -- makes no sense here because a half- dozen other countries would happily export more honey to America if the price rose substantially.
Then there is the question of finding a comparable third country. "Going to India and consulting a few old yearbooks" isn't much help in reconstructing China's costs, Mr. Rushford of the trade policy newsletter argues. What's more, after the calculations are made, they must be translated from Indian rupees to dollars -- a process fraught with conceptual problems.
Perhaps most offensive is the way the Commerce Department treats foreigners as lowly petitioners. European steelmakers may be able to comply with demands for data in English and on a timely basis. But it seems bizarre to expect the same from Chinese companies exporting a few million dollars' worth of honey.
The antidumping law is not about to be changed. But the bureaucrats were curbed in the 1970's and 80's and could be curbed again. "You can blame the White House for letting the bureaucrats run amok," Mr. Rushford says.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HONEY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; PRICES AGRICULTURE (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APICULTURE (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); LAWYERS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; COURSEY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



310 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
McNamara Concedes: 'We Were Wrong'

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

IN RETROSPECT
The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam
By Robert S. McNamara with Brian VanDeMark
Illustrated. 414 pages. Times Books. $27.50. 
 As Robert S. McNamara concedes at the end of his new book, "In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam," some people still believe that the heavy costs of American involvement in Vietnam were worthwhile. Such people, Mr. McNamara writes, "conclude that without U.S. intervention in Vietnam, Communist hegemony -- both Soviet and Chinese -- would have spread farther through South and East Asia to include control of Indonesia, Thailand and possibly India."
But Mr. McNamara, who served Presidents Kennedy and Johnson as Secretary of Defense from 1961 until early in 1968, does not agree. He says the country could and should have withdrawn from Vietnam "in late 1963 amid the turmoil following" the assassination of South Vietnam's President, Ngo Dinh Diem, "or in late 1964 or early 1965 in the face of increasing political and military weakness," or on several later occasions. Not only would our allies have understood, he adds, but we might even have "improved our credibility by withdrawing from Vietnam and saving our strength for more defensible stands elsewhere."
That the United States did not get out cost a terrible price in lives, in damage to the American economy and, most significantly to Mr. McNamara, in the shattering of our "political unity." In short, he says that "we were wrong, terribly wrong." He therefore decided to write a book that would face his own and his colleagues' mistakes. He would be hard on everyone. But his purpose would not be so much to point fingers as to dispel the cynicism that he believes Vietnam helped engender. For he still is convinced that the war was fought with good and honorable motives. And by identifying both the motives and the errors, he might help to restore faith in our leaders.
As it turns out, he is only partly successful in his attempt to clear the air. He makes good sense when defining the basic causes of the failure. These he sums up in familiar enough terms: a view of Communism as monolithic, an anxious outlook aggravated by Cuba and Berlin, an absence of experts on the Far East caused by the purge of the China specialists in the McCarthy era, and perhaps most fundamentally, the contradiction, never resolved, of looking upon South Vietnam as both the bulwark of Southeast Asia and a country that needed to be trained to defend itself.
Yet in detailing how these flaws manifested themselves he is not so consistently lucid. On some matters he is outspoken. For instance, he blames the law of unintended consequences for the way the decision to bomb led to a need for ground troops to defend the airfields, and then more and more ground troops as the war on the ground expanded. He defends Gen. William S. Westmoreland against the accusation brought by a CBS Reports documentary, "The Uncounted Enemy: A Vietnam Deception," alleging, as he puts it, "that Westy ordered his intelligence officers knowingly to underestimate enemy strength in order to bolster his claims of military progress." And he faults President Johnson for failing to be more forthright with the American public about the growing expense of the war. He attributes this failure to Johnson's worthy desire to keep his Great Society programs on track.
Elsewhere, however, Mr. McNamara seems less lucid on why and how things went wrong. On the one hand, he wrings his hands over the deaths of President Diem and his brother Ngo Dinh Nhu, as if he were somehow at fault; on the other hand he is critical of Roger Hilsman Jr., Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, and Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge for their roles in promoting the coup against the Diems. On the one hand, he blames himself for not forcing the debate on bombing out into the open; on the other hand he keeps pointing an accusing finger at the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
And concerning his eventual departure from the Johnson Administration over his loss of belief in the war, he both professes his love for Johnson and his loyalty to him and faults the President for not following his advice.
Part of the trouble lies in Mr. McNamara's unevenness of tone. Sometimes he is official in his prose style, as when he resorts to the passive voice in discussing the coup against the Diems, "Neither question received an adequate answer, and Lodge was not given instructions to meet Diem." Putting the matter this way leaves no one in particular at fault. At other times he is disconcertingly personal, as when he blames himself for not talking things out with his family: "at moments like this I often turn inward instead -- it is a grave weakness."
At still other times he seems caught bizarrely in between the official and the personal, as, for instance, when he reports in his official voice how he tried to demonstrate for Eunice Shriver the function of "the fountain pen-like tear-gas dispenser" that was stored in the rear compartment of his limousine: "I rolled the window down a bit, held the dispenser up to it, and pressed. Because we were moving so fast, there was a vacuum, which drew the fumes into the car. Eunice -- who planned to make a speech" at the Wardman Park Hotel -- "began choking and screaming. I had incapacitated her by the time we arrived."
One begins to suspect the presence of a highly complex code in these pages, the deciphering of which would require the collaboration of scholars, cryptographers and psychoanalysts. Certain points in the book come across like thunderclaps, like the author's clear preference for President Kennedy, who, he believes, would have pulled out of Vietnam had he lived, over President Johnson, whom he faults for not allowing open discussion of Vietnam policy among his senior advisers.
Other points pop like firecrackers, like the author's criticism of Walt Rostow, McGeorge Bundy's successor as national security adviser, for tending "to be skeptical of any report that failed to indicate we were making progress." But because Mr. McNamara's contradictions leave one in the dark about so much of what he really thinks, one ends up feeling, if not precisely cynicism, then a residue of confusion about what went wrong in Vietnam.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert S. McNamara (Diana Walker/Times Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IN RETROSPECT: THE TRAGEDY AND LESSONS OF VIETNAM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; VIETNAM WAR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BOOK REVIEWS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); WRITERS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LITERATURE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; VANDEMARK, BRIAN; MCNAMARA, ROBERT S JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



311 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Shifting Course On the Arts, Aiming For the Mainstream

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER 

 BODY:
Who deserves a slice of the shrinking pie? So far as New York City arts financing goes, it may turn out to be the institutions with the biggest appetites. According to representatives of several of the city's arts organizations, the Giuliani administration decided last week to eliminate city support entirely for 400 smaller museums, theater companies, arts education organizations and other groups, and to concentrate the city's increasingly limited cultural-affairs budget on larger, more established institutions.
The proposal -- which is not yet final, and has not been announced -- represents a further step in a preference expressed in December 1993 by John S. Dyson, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, that city arts subsidies be funneled toward large institutions, like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, that directly enhance the city's economy by attracting tourist dollars. 
 With virtually every portion of the city's budget facing cuts, arts groups hardly expected to be exempt from the ax. But last week's proposal, which would become effective in the 1996 fiscal year, is not a reduction but an elimination. It would result in the complete end to city support for organizations like Dance Theater of Harlem, the Children's Museum of Manhattan, the South Street Seaport Museum, the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater and the Alvin Ailey Dance Company and educational groups like the Harlem School of the Arts, the Henry Street Settlement, Arts Connection and Studio in a School.
The plan would represent a monumental shift in the nature and type of support that the city has given its arts community, sending a clear signal that the culture the city wishes to support is the mainstream culture that lures tourists to Manhattan and spins off additional dollars for hotels and restaurants. The other side of the arts -- the incubation side, not the consumption side -- would be left to fend for itself.
The plan is a kind of cultural Darwinism in that it favors what is already strongest. But it is Darwinism under a false premise, for it holds out the promise of cultural survival not to the culturally strongest but to the economically strongest. By focusing on economic development as a prime criterion for cultural subsidy, the city's proposed new policy ignores those sides of the arts that often provide the most social benefit in the long run: teaching, community service and development of young artists. These things may not provide the quick economic pay-back of a blockbuster show at the Met, but they are the tools by which audiences are built and social fabrics woven. And they are the ways in which the arts most directly reach minorities and residents of the city's more disadvantaged communities, groups that are likely to suffer the most under the new plan.
It is true, of course, that the galleries of the Met are open to everyone. But it is often the small museum in the Bronx or the educational program run by an organization like Studio in a School that inspires a young person to go to the Met in the first place. At a time when the New York City Board of Education has all but abandoned arts education in the schools, private groups have taken up the mission of building an arts audience for the future. Many of these groups are among those designated to lose their city support, and they fear that this new policy will shake them to the core, because they have already squeezed what they can out of private sources and there is no more private money available to take up the slack. The ripples of the proposed new policy would be little felt in the galleries of the Brooklyn Museum, but the complete loss of city funds could threaten several smaller institutions with closure.
"The city talks about encouraging public-private partnerships, but that's what we've been doing all along," said Linda LeRoy Janklow, chairwoman of Arts Connection, an arts-education organization for public school students that has been threatened with the loss of its entire $311,000 city subsidy. "We leverage four or five dollars in private funds for every dollar the city gives us, but we can't do that if the city doesn't give us our base money."
Smaller cultural groups also serve as incubators for mainstream culture. "Three Tall Women," the Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Edward Albee that is still running off Broadway, got its start at the small Vineyard Theater, which is supported in part by city subsidies that would disappear under the new plan.
And while the smaller organizations may not bring tourists to New York, they buttress the city's economy by creating substantial employment. Arts Connection, for example, employs 24 full-time staff members and 700 artists as teachers each year. For many of these artists, the part-time Arts Connection work is the one thing that allows them to pursue their own careers in the arts.
The director of one of the city's most respected smaller museums, which is threatened with the loss of more than $200,000 in city assistance, roughly 14 percent of its budget, points out another risk in the new policy: that corporations, already reluctant in today's economic climate to support arts programs unless they can see a clear marketing benefit from doing so, will become the supporters of last resort, and could feel emboldened to set difficult conditions. Imagine the Alvin Ailey company having to name a new dance after the Amalgamated Computer Company, or the Children's Museum of Manhattan having no choice but to make its ecology exhibit a paean to the glories of a chemical company.
"When I had city money, I felt I could turn down a corporation that wanted to use an exhibition mainly as advertising for itself," said the director, who spoke on the condition that his name not be used. "The city was wonderful in giving us a moral platform for refusing commercial demands. But now we will have to play ball with them; I see us placed in a position where the corporations will call the shots completely."
While the city's proposed new policy emerges largely out of Mr. Dyson's stated preferences for cultural financing, it also connects to a historical anomaly in the way in which the city's cultural organizations operate. The bulk of the $96.1 million cultural affairs budget goes to pay housekeeping costs for 31 cultural organizations -- including the Brooklyn Museum, the Brooklyn Children's Museum, the Metropolitan Museum and the American Museum of Natural History -- that are in city-owned buildings or on city-owned land. It is something of a historical accident which institutions are in this group and which are not: the Brooklyn Children's Museum is part of the group while the Children's Museum of Manhattan is not, for example, just as the Metropolitan Museum of Art is city-owned and the Museum of Modern Art is not.
But this accident of history now threatens to determine the future of many organizations, because the city appears to have decided that it will favor those institutions, collectively known as the cultural institutions group, at the expense of the others. The cultural institutions group will continue to receive major city support under Mr. Dyson's proposal, even though its members are expected to face some budget cuts as well.
Schuyler G. Chapin, the city's Cultural Affairs Commissioner, is reported to have proposed a plan under which the cultural institutions group and the program group would have shared equally in an across-the-board cut of roughly 18 percent in response to the budget crisis. Mr. Chapin's plan is said to have been rejected by Mr. Dyson in favor of a more modest cut for the cultural institutions group and a total cut for the others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (55%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (55%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); THEATER (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DANCE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); THEATER COMPANIES (71%); TOURISM (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); RESTAURANTS (63%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DYSON, JOHN S (DEPUTY MAYOR); GOLDBERGER, PAUL ALVIN AILEY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



312 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Ms. Bhutto's Wish List

 BODY:
The United States and Pakistan, once locked in an expedient cold-war embrace that served mutual defense interests, are warily exploring how to establish a subtler, more productive relationship. It will not be easy, as Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's visit to Washington this week demonstrated.
Pakistan wants improved relations, renewed American aid and delivery of 38 F-16 jet fighters it bought in 1988. It advertises itself as a secular, democratic Islamic state in a sea of fundamentalism. But it is not willing to give up nuclear arming, the reason relations are strained and the warplanes are sitting in Arizona instead of Pakistan. 
 The challenge for President Clinton is to support secular, democratic forces in Pakistan without yielding on the nuclear issue or pretending that Pakistan is a model of political and economic stability. Mr. Clinton seldom strayed from that course during the Bhutto visit, but left unclear how he intends to shape relations in the months ahead.
Pakistan, once an ally against Communism and now a hothouse for terrorists, is shaken by domestic unrest fed by religious and ethnic conflict, economic crisis and an expanding drug trade. The instability will only be exacerbated by a nuclear arms race between Pakistan and India. If Mr. Clinton wants to prevent that, he has to restore some economic and military ties to Pakistan without jeopardizing new ties with India.
Delivery of the F-16's, along with other military and economic aid to Pakistan, has been barred under the Pressler Amendment since 1990 after Pakistan, violating promises made to Washington, began stockpiling nuclear material for bombs. Mr. Clinton suggested he might refund the $658 million Pakistan paid for the F-16's if he can find another buyer. He was right to avoid a pledge to deliver the planes.
What Ms. Bhutto needs is a boost for her economy. It should involve aid for cooperative projects between India and Pakistan. That would require Congress to relax the Pressler Amendment, permitting limited economic assistance while still barring other aid or arms sales. Ms. Bhutto deserves some help, but she must restrain Pakistan's nuclear ambitions.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TRENDS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: BHUTTO, BENAZIR (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



313 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Market Opening on Internet For Pollution-Credit Trades

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
An electronic market for trading pollution credits from Southern California is to begin operating today on the Internet, offering a system that its developers believe will help businesses reduce pollution at the lowest possible cost.
Its developers, scientists from the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, hope their automated environmental credit exchange, as it is known, will supplant a rival auction market begun last year by Cantor Fitzgerald L.P., a Wall Street brokerage firm. 
 Developers of the automated credit exchange said that the new system was already drawing interest from the Environmental Protection Agency and environmental regulators for several states. The supporters hope the credit exchange becomes the standard trading mechanism used in other regions that are planning to let free-market forces clean urban air through the trading of smog credits.
Credits in the chemical that causes acid rain have been traded since 1993 among utilities through the Chicago Board of Trade, but other global markets for trading credits in water and greenhouse gases are also emerging.
"The fundamental purpose of moving to a market-based approach to environmental regulation is to reduce emissions faster and more efficiently than traditional regulations," said Dale Carlson, vice president of corporate affairs for the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco. The exchange will act to clear and settle trades on the credit exchange along with the Bank of America, a unit of the BankAmerica Corporation.
"This concept of using market systems is the coming trend," said Robert D. Brenner, the E.P.A.'s director of air policy. It is too early to determine whether a single system will emerge as a standard, he said, "but there's an opportunity for anyone to break into the market."
The environmental credit exchange is expected to operate one week a quarter, but trades will not be executed until the final day of the trading week. That lets participants refine their bids and find the price the rest of the market is setting by relying on analysis provided by the system's software.
The exchange was developed by Caltech professors, whose two companies, Sholtz & Associates and Econdesigns, will make money three ways: by charging companies a fee to participate, by selling their software, and by a commission based on the value of the trades that are made.
Ann Sholtz, a Caltech economics professor and a co-developer of the credit exchange, said Cantor's auction system left small business without access to sophisticated financial analysis at a disadvantage when buying or selling pollution credits.
Carlton W. Bartels, director of environmental brokerage services for Cantor, countered that the Caltech system was too complex and lacked customer service.
Southern California's 390 largest polluters, those that produce four or more tons a year of smog-making chemicals, must determine whether buying new technology or buying the right to pollute from someone else is the cheapest way for them to reduce emissions. The South Coast Air Quality Management District will force progress by cutting the ceiling of credits each year.
Prices for credits went for as low as one-tenth of 1 cent a pound of chemicals during the most recent auction, held in January by Cantor Fitzgerald. Such prices, conceded James M. Lents, executive officer of the air quality district, "were dirt cheap. By the second year of the program, the rubber starts to meet to road."
It is to the agency's advantage to see rival trading systems for credits emerge, he said, adding: "We want a market with lots of trades. It gives people confidence. If you don't have good trading, people will hoard credits."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; CANTOR FITZGERALD LP; PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE; BANK OF AMERICA BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CME GROUP INC (84%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (72%); NYSE ARCA INC (55%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; CANTOR FITZGERALD LP; PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE; BANK OF AMERICA CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; INTERNET (COMPUTER NETWORK); ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS EMISSIONS CREDITS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SMOG (89%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); ACID RAIN (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1995



314 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Schulman (A.) Inc.(SHLM,NNM) reports earnings for Qtr to Feb 28

 BODY:

** COMPANY REPORTS **	Schulman (A.) Inc.(SHLM,NNM)	Qtr to Feb 28	1995	1994		 	 	Sales	249,637,000	168,055,000	Net inc	13,097,000	8,956,000	Share earns	.35	.24	Shares outst	37,541,593	37,436,690	6mo sales	500,878,000	336,015,000	Net inc	26,332,000	18,743,000	Share earns	.70	.50	Shares outst	37,517,276	37,418,904		 	 		 	 	
 
A. Schulman said its record sales and net income for the latest second quarter and six months were the result of increases in product tonnage, plus higher selling prices, the positive translation effect from the weaker United States dollar and favorable economic conditions in Europe and North America.
 
The translation effect of the weaker U.S. dollar increased net income by $ 908,000, or 3 cents a share, for the quarter, and $ 1,838,000, or 5 cents a share, for the six months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (71%); UNITED STATES (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (71%); UNITED STATES (66%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



315 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Japan Cuts Interest Rates In Effort to Curb Yen's Rise
 The Japanese central bank has cut the discount rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, to a record low of 1 percent, as part of a plan to halt the ascent of the yen against the dollar. The strong yen has been hindering efforts to revive Japan's sluggish economy because it reduces the demand for the nation's exports. A1. 
 President Clinton said he saw little basis for the dollar's weakness and said the markets would eventually respond to Administration efforts to cut the deficit. D3.
 The dollar fell against most leading currencies, settling in New York at 1.3864 marks and 83.50 yen. D16.
 
Retail Sales Rose in March
 Retail sales edged up two-tenths of 1 percent in March, with consumers spending about $2 billion less than anticipated. D2.
 
Calpers Protest on Philip Morris
 The California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, said it would vote against a management slate of candidates for the board of Philip Morris, accusing the company of being unresponsive to institutional shareholders. D2.
 
Deal for Six Flags Parks Advances
 Time Warner is closer to selling 51 percent of the Six Flags theme parks to an investment group for $200 million in cash. Robert W. Pittman would continue to run Six Flags and get a small stake in the new company. D5.
 
Microsoft Net Exceeds Estimates
 Microsoft said earnings rose 55 percent in the third quarter. Some analysts had expected a slowdown. But continued strong demand for personal computer translated into stronger-than-expected results. D4.
 
Pioneer Takes Hollywood Write-Off
 Pioneer Electronic is writing off $90 million from its stake in film maker Carolco Pictures and distributor Live Entertainment. D3.
 
Mutual Benefit May Name Chief
 Alan Bowers, a partner at the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand, is expected to be named chief executive of Mutual Benefit Life. D4.
 
Failed Firm's Accounts Transferred
 Customer accounts at the failed penny stock brokerage firm Hanover Sterling were transferred to Lew Lieberbaum & Co. D2.
 
Bellcore Put Up for Sale
 The regional Bell telephone companies formally put their research consortium, Bellcore, up for sale. D2.
 
Pilot Error Blamed for Crash
 The National Transportation Safety Board said pilot error led to the fatal crash of an American Eagle plane in December. A1.
 
Agency Creates a Cooler Cow
 With its eye-grabbing magenta milk carton sporting a Holstein wearing sunglasses, and quirky commercials pumped up by jazzy music, the brand, Cool Cow, aims to be hip. And now the low-fat milk from North Dakota is coming to the Northeast, supported by a campaign created by the tiny Soho Advertising agency. Advertising. D5.
 
First 100 Days Golden to Lobbyists
 For Washington's corporate and business lobbyists, the first 100 days could hardly have gone better. Key committees invited the lobbyists to help reshape environmental laws, and Administration regulators are backing off from several controversial proposals. A12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TODAY"
 
Capacity Utilization
 
March figures due at 9:15 A.M. Eastern
Expected: 85.4%
 
Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,208.18	10.37	30-yr. Treasury yield	7.33%	0.02	The dollar	83.50 yen	0.25	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEW LIEBERBAUM & CO INC (63%); SIX FLAGS THEME PARKS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS JAPANESE YEN (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); LOBBYING (87%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (84%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); MILK (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (63%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (60%); EXPORT TRADE (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



316 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says Tax Cut Hinges On Incentives for Education

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Further refining his differences with the Republicans on the drive to cut taxes, President Clinton said today that "any tax relief must be geared to helping middle-class people and to helping people educate themselves."
The President's comments, in an interview with CNN, marked the second time in as many days that Mr. Clinton sought to distinguish his own tax proposals, which include new deductions for college and vocational training, from Republican alternatives. On Wednesday, he vowed to oppose any bill that did not include tax relief for the cost of education. 
 In the interview today, the President also refused to match Senator Bob Dole's campaign pledge that he would not raise taxes. Mr. Clinton said he had no intention of raising taxes, but he added, "On principle, I think a President runs the risk of breeding cynicism to sign that kind of pledge when you have no idea what will come forward."
Just as the White House used the popular school lunch program as a wedge in its attacks on the House Republicans' budget-cutting plans, Mr. Clinton is now accusing the Republicans of slighting education with proposed tax cuts that he has already denounced as unrealistically large and too favorable to the rich.
"Education is the fault line in America today," the President said on Wednesday in Warm Springs, Ga., where he commemorated the 50th anniversary of the death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. "Those who have it are doing well in the global economy; those who don't are not doing well. We cannot walk away from this fundamental fact: the American dream will succeed or fail in the 21st century in direct proportion to our commitment to educate every person in the United States."
A tax cut for education, he added, "is the most important tax cut we can have, and I will insist upon it and will not support a legislative bill that does not have it."
In December, Mr. Clinton proposed up to $10,000 in annual income tax deductions for post-high-school education for families earning less than $120,000 a year, as part of a tax relief plan that also includes a credit of up to $500 per child for families earning up to $75,000. For weeks, the President portrayed the education incentives as the central difference between his tax cut plan and far larger Republican alternatives.
His remarks this week not only honed that critique, but also hinted at the sort of compromise that he might find acceptable, though it is far from clear that one will be forthcoming on Capitol Hill.
Last week the House passed a bill providing a variety of cuts in personal and business taxes that would total nearly $200 billion over five years, more than three times the size of the package Mr. Clinton favors. Its centerpiece is a $500-per-child tax cut for families earning up to $200,000 a year.
The bill's fate in the Senate is uncertain, with some leading Republicans like Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the chairman of the Finance Committee, sounding skeptical notes about the size of the tax cut.
But the prospects for passage of the education incentives in the President's plan appear even more complicated. The Clinton education proposal never even came up in the House debate. An amendment by the House minority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, seeking educational deductions similar to the Clinton plan, failed by a vote of 313 to 119. And a significant number of Democrats joined the Republicans to defeat it.
In the CNN interview, Mr. Clinton repeated that he wanted to work with the Republicans when possible. But he rejected the suggestion that because he has not yet vetoed any bill, he lacked the will.
"Now, vetoes make a big splash," the President said. "If they'll just simply send me some bad bills, I'll be more than happy to veto them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; TAX CREDITS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX RELIEF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FAMILY (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



317 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
JAPAN SEEKS TO REIN IN YEN
Japan introduced a plan to halt the ascent of the yen against the dollar. The effort,intended to revive Japan's sluggish economy, included a cut in a key interest rate, to 1 percent. A1 A1
 
FORMER COMMANDOS SEEK HELP
More than 50 Vietnamese commandos who worked behind enemy lines for the U.S. were imprisoned in the 1960's. The survivors want to leave Vietnam, but their applications have been rejected by the U.S. A1 

RUSSIA'S NEW TELEVISION STAR
Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, the great anti-Soviet dissident who once turned his wrath on the empty materialism and lowbrow culture of the West, has found a new calling. He is a talk show host. A1
 
JAPANESE CULT LEADERS HUNTED
Police officers conducted searches around Japan for leaders of the sect suspected of planning the nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway system last month. Two sect followers once active in the Japanese underworld were arrested. A3
 
RUSSIA CRITICIZED ON CHECHNYA
The campaign against Chechen rebels has become more brutal because of Russia's desire to end visible resistance before world leaders come to Moscow on May 9. A6
 
U.N. CONSIDERS IRAQI OIL SALES
The Security Council began formal debate on a resolution that would allow Iraq to sell $2 billion in oil over six months to pay for relief and emergency goods. A8
 
Nepal's new premier wants to revise a treaty with India. A3
 
Farmers in France ponder presidential politics. A5
 
West Bank tensions rise as Israeli troops shoot dogs in Hebron. A8
 
Turkey wins U.S. support on a plan to limit moves by rebel Kurds. A8
 
Libya plans to violate a ban on international flights. A8
 
Lobzenica Journal: Easter is now less political in Poland. A4
 
National A10-13, D18
 
PILOT'S COMPETENCE IN QUESTION
The pilot of a commuter plane that crashed in North Carolina last December, killing 15 people, had been forced to leave another airline because of incompetence.A1
 
GOING AFTER DELINQUENT FATHERS
The experience of Georgia, a national leader in the pursuit of delinquent child support, suggests both the potential for and the limits of measures to enforce payment. A1
 
HOSPITAL TO LOSE ACCREDITATION
A private accreditation group said it would lift the accreditation of a Florida hospital where several botched surgeries and treatments were performed. A10
 
NEW QUESTIONS ON STUDENT
A student whose admission to Harvard was rescinded after it was learned that she had killed her mother faced widening accusations about her integrity. A10
 
DORNAN ENTERS RACE
Robert Dornan, the firebrand conservative Representative from California, entered the 1996 Presidential race, promising to restore the American dream. A11
 
FOR LOBBIES, A GOOD START
Corporate and business lobbyists agreed they faired wellin the first 100 days of this Congress. A12
 
DIVIDED JURY IS DEPICTED
A former juror in the Simpson trial told the judge of a panel torn by racial tensions. A13
 
President Clinton said any tax relief should help the middle class. A12
 
An appeals court backs a woman's effort to enter The Citadel. A10
 
Coretta Scott King lost a bid to regain her husband's papers. A13
 
Law D19
 
Stalwart of Kennedy's Justice Department now convicted of fraud.
 
At the Bar: Law schools fiddle with data in the quest for high rankings.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
TAKEOVER OF NEWARK SCHOOLS
Calling the system riddled with failure, a state judge ordered New Jersey's Education Department to take over the long-troubled Newark school district. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-28
 
Natural history treasures. C1
At Chinatown's Holiday Inn. C1
For Children C23
Theater: Mamet's "Cryptogram." C3
On Stage, and Off C2
Film: "Clean, Shaven." C5
"The Cormorant." C18
Restaurants C24
Art: French photographer. C1
Drawings from Stanford. C4
Inside Art C26
Art in Review C4
Books: Tracing the circuits in the modern mind. C28
Television: TV Weekend D26
Home Video D26
 
Sports B9-16
 
Baseball: The real Yanks beat the real Mets. B9
Basketball: Knicks rip Bullets. B9
Nets lose to 76ers. B11
Columns: Vecsey on baseball. B9
Robert Lipsyte. B16
Football: Jets not likely to pick McNair. B15
Hockey: Rangers not panicking. Yet. B16
Racing: Derby rehearsals. B15
Yachts: A triumph for Conner. B9
 
Obituaries D21
 
David D. Thompson, former director of New York Hospital.
Diane Cleaver, literary agent and author.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
Mr. Iacocca's new bottom line.
Connecticut school segregation.
Endangered integrity.
The P.L.O. crackdown in Gaza.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: The crackpot factor.
A. M. Rosenthal: Stacking the deck.
Ludmilla Thorne: Blitzkrieg in Chechnya.
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GEORGIA (79%); NEPAL (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (73%); POLAND (71%); VIET NAM (57%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (92%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GEORGIA (79%); NEPAL (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (73%); POLAND (71%); VIET NAM (57%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (86%); AIRLINES (85%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (85%); LOBBYING (85%); ACCREDITATION (84%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); CULTS & SECTS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); POLITICS (69%); ARRESTS (68%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



318 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Dornan, House Firebrand, Joins the '96 Race

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 13

 BODY:
Representative Robert K. Dornan of California, a firebrand conservative Republican who is perhaps the most garrulous and acerbic legislator on Capitol Hill, entered the 1996 Presidential race today, garrulously and acerbicly.
And also joyously. 
 "Come with me," the 62-year-old nine-term Congressman from Orange County said in an announcement speech in Washington. "I'm going to enjoy myself."
Mr. Dornan's speech, delivered at a memorial to slain police officers, promised to restore the American dream, wandered to an assertion that he had never yelled at his office staff, compared injuries he suffered in ejecting from a jet fighter in peacetime with wounds that the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, suffered in World War II combat, and finally concluded with a passionately voiced wish to "go down swinging."
"I love the dust," said the man who once called President Clinton "a disgraced draft dodger," who recently accused homosexuals of turning AIDS into "a political problem instead of a health problem" and who maintains that abortion is "a national sin" and that service in the military is not just patriotic but a sacred rite of passage.
Most political experts predict that few voters will respond to Mr. Dornan's message, saying he is too vociferously to the right even for the Republican Party's powerful right wing. But given his 16 years of combat on Capitol Hill -- he once grabbed a fellow legislator by the necktie and called him "a draft-dodging wimp" -- there is every expectation that he will go down swinging energetically.
The eight other announced or almost-announced Republican candidates, among them Mr. Dole, either have more money than Mr. Dornan or already have latched on to some of his favorite ideas, or both.
But Arnie Steinberg, a California political consultant who worked with Mr. Dornan in one of his House campaigns, said: "Don't underestimate Bob's one-on-one skills and his proven ability to stir debate and raise some money among the faithful. He's got a real message. But his real impact, if he has any, might be to steal away some support from Phil Gramm, which is a problem Phil already faces with Pat Buchanan and Alan Keyes."
As for a Democratic assessment of Mr. Dornan's chances, Bill Press, the California Democratic chairman, offered, in good Dornan style, "He has as much chance of being elected President as Madonna."
Mr. Dornan's Congressional record is mostly one of staunch opposition to abortion, sex education, homosexuality and gun control, combined with uncompromising support for anti-crime measures and a strengthening of the armed forces, not least the military installations and contractors in his Orange County district. But he is probably best known, when he is known at all nationally, for the way he advocates rather than for what he advocates.
A few weeks ago, for example, he made national headlines when he asserted in a speech on the floor of the House that Mr. Clinton "gave aid and comfort to the enemy" by participating in student protests against the Vietnam War.
House members, including Republican colleagues, had the remarks stricken from the record and imposed a 24-hour suspension on Mr. Dornan's floor privileges. It was the first such suspension in 21 years.
Today, alluding to that episode in his announcement speech and a follow-up news conference, Mr. Dornan held his ground with vintage tenacity.
"On the floor of the House, in the well, yes, I've been tough," he said, "tough as Patrick Henry yelling, 'Give me liberty or give me death.' I apologize for nothing where I was indignant over my years in the House.
"But I will tell you that if someone is not publicly indignant about the bankrupt policies of this, the richest country ever, destroying the American dream economically, and if somebody is not publicly indignant and saying, 'Stop this,' with our cultural meltdown and moral decline, then I'll show you somebody who doesn't understand the facts. I'll show you somebody who's a bystander watching the destruction of their country."
Mr. Dornan has lately spread his gospel by serving as a substitute host on some national talk shows, including Rush Limbaugh's. He honed his broadcast skills as a television talk show host in Southern California in the 1970's and also worked as an actor back then, having gained access to show business through Jack Haley, his uncle, who played the Tin Man in "The Wizard of Oz."
Before that, he was a pilot in the Air Force, an experience that appears to have deeply influenced his views on patriotism, duty and national purpose. On Capitol Hill, he is known as B-1 Bob because of his relentless advocacy of military power, in particular the B-1 bomber, manufactured in good part in Southern California.
Within his own district, he is a formidable fund-raiser, one of the best in Congress. Again and again over the years he has gone to his constituents in search of money for re-election, and again and again they have given, obviously pleased with his message and the way he delivers it.
Will that message and style of delivery now play well beyond Orange County, drawing both money and votes nationally?
Near the end of his appearance today, Mr. Dornan replied that if his campaign could contribute to the strength of his country, he would be satisfied. "Money does not buy you everything," he said. "Winning is not everything."


GRAPHIC: Photo: "Robert Kenneth Dornan"
 
CURRENT JOB: United States Representative, 46th District of California.
 
BORN: April 3, 1933, New York City.
 
EDUCATION: Loyola University, 1950-53. Loyola High School, Los Angeles.
 
RELIGION: Roman Catholic.
 
MILITARY SERVICE: United States Air Force as a peacetime fighter pilot, 1953-58. California Air National Guard fighter pilot, then Air Force Reserve rescue and seaplane pilot and intelligence officer, 1958-75, attaining the rank of captain.
 
MARRIED: Sallie Hansen in 1955.
 
CHILDREN: Robin Marie Griffin, Robert Kenneth Dornan 2d, Theresa Ann Cobban, Mark Douglas Dornan, Kathleen Regina Penn.
 
GOVERNMENT POSITIONS: United States Representative 1977-82; 1985 to the present.
 
OTHER MAJOR POSITIONS: Produced and was host of radio and television public affairs programs in Los Angeles, 1965-76.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); SEX EDUCATION (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); GUN CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: DORNAN, ROBERT K (REPR); AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR BILL CLINTON (73%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



319 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2217 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Welfare: Collecting From Fathers -- A special report.;
Georgia, Pursuing Child Support, Discovers Its Potential and Limits

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
With a self-sufficiency born of pride and desperation, Sheila Anderson seems to be just the sort of single mother politicians are searching for in the rush to change the welfare system. Abandoned by the father of her 5-year-old son, she took welfare only long enough to find work.
"I make our living," said Ms. Anderson, a 27-year-old telephone operator. 
 Georgia, with its aggressive program of tracking down absent fathers and making them pay child support, collects $122 a month from the father on behalf of Ms. Anderson and her son, Avery. She is grateful for the extra money, which helps her stay afloat. But she gets angry when politicians harp on child support as a central weapon against the welfare problem, as if fathers were lining up to empty their pockets.
Ms. Anderson said that if she had depended on a man to lift her out of welfare, she would still be on it. "Any idiot ought to know $122 a month is not enough to raise a child," she said. Avery's father, erratically employed, makes little money.
Collecting more from the absent fathers of children on welfare has been a rallying cry for politicians in both political parties, something they hope can move more families out of poverty as well as cut public expenses.
On March 23, the United States House of Representatives voted to deny driver's licenses and other privileges to fathers who fail to pay court-ordered child support. In a more-disputed proposal, the wide-ranging Republican-sponsored welfare bill that passed the House the next day would also reduce cash welfare payments, for a period of months, to a mother who cannot or will not name the father of her child.
Nearly everyone seems to agree with the principle of making fathers help support their children. But poverty experts warn that child support has often been oversold as an answer to welfare or the plight of poor, single mothers.
The experience of Georgia, a national leader in the pursuit of child support, suggests both the potential for and the limits of such measures.
The state's child-support enforcement division has consistently ranked among the nation's top five in establishing paternity and collecting money from absent fathers.
In Georgia, roughly 1 in 4 of the state's welfare recipients receives at least some child support, which is better than the record in most other states. The average payment was about $100 a month, not nearly enough to remove most recipients from the welfare rolls. But in 18,000 cases, officials estimate, those payments, alone or combined with income from a job, were enough to lift the family off welfare.
In part because of a weak economy, the total number of welfare cases in Georgia, which has a population of more than 7 million, has climbed in recent years -- to 149,000 in 1994 from 99,000 in 1990. If the state had not aggressively gone after delinquent parents, the number would probably have increased well beyond 150,000, said Robert Swain, deputy director of Georgia's child-support enforcement division.
So far, Georgia has been harder on fathers who fail to pay than on mothers who fail to identify the fathers. Like many other states, it has jailed some fathers who could pay but do not, but it has not penalized uncooperative mothers by taking away benefits.
 
The Mothers
Getting 'Blood From a Turnip'
 On the steps of housing projects in Atlanta, where welfare and food stamps are often a means of survival, single-parent mothers say that lawmakers who see child support as a cure for welfare are out of touch with reality.
In this world, most of the fathers are unemployed or rarely work -- and then at the minimum wage -- or they have no traceable income or are in jail, said several mothers on welfare and social workers who handle their cases. Even here, officials succeed in the first step of finding fathers and establishing paternity for fewer than half of the children on welfare.
Fatherhood in this world seldom manifests itself with a wedding ring or a slow dance at the country club. At Techwood Homes, one of the nation's oldest public-housing units, mothers are fond of the phrase "blood from a turnip" when talking about collecting from absentee fathers.
"He caught the bus," said Sabrina Jones, when asked what happened to the father of her 4-year-old daughter, Bashira. "At least I got to name her pretty," she said of her daughter. They live on welfare.
Freya Sonenstein, an authority on child support at the Urban Institute in Washington, said, "For women who live on welfare, their partners are more likely to have low skills, low levels of education and low incomes, and may not be able to lift them out of poverty."
Some mothers think it is smarter to take occasional under-the-table presents from the fathers -- like groceries or a tricycle -- than to chase them through the courts for a child-support check that might never come. A few refuse to name the baby's father for a more ominous reason: They fear retaliation, to themselves or the child.
To Ms. Anderson, whose welfare experience is still fresh in her mind, the Republican plan to reduce monthly welfare checks as much as $50 for mothers who do not name a father is cruel.
"Do they have any idea how long a gallon of milk will last?" she asked. "Have they ever looked at a loaf of bread and tried to figure if it would last the week? I don't think so."
In welfare cases, experts say, only a few absent fathers are deadbeats who make good money and do not support their children because they do not care.
"People overstate the gains" that are feasible from child support, said Prof. Irwin Garfinkel, an authority on child support at Columbia University. "I don't think there's any question that it's a good thing. But if you think it's going to get rid of welfare, that's ignorant. If we had a perfect system and collected 100 percent of the child support, we would would still only cut welfare by 25 percent."
States should increase programs that support working mothers, like day care, Professor Garfinkel said, as they whittle away at the number of absentee fathers who could pay something, anything. But that is an old quest, with the same tired reality: Such programs require an up-front investment, in a time of spending cuts.
Dr. Sonenstein said that many states, following Georgia's example, could do more to collect what little they can from fathers in poor neighborhoods. "Usually, when they're threatened with jail they come up with something," she said of the fathers.
But if there is a safety net, Dr. Sonenstein added, it is welfare, not child support.
 
The System
Tracking Down Absent Parents
 It is a Wednesday afternoon at Techwood Homes and an ambulance, siren screeching, blocks the appointed round of an ice cream truck that tinkles a merry tune amid the din. In this place of uncertainties, there are two things people can count on: regular visits by paramedics, and Popsicles.
Three single mothers sit on the stoop, talking and waiting for the school bus to drop off their children. It is one of the nicer rituals. They discuss a father who has abandoned a mother and two children.
"That's O.K.," said Jeanette Jackson, between bouts of coughing caused by asthma. "He's going to get his in the long run. God don't like people who do ugly."
But first, the absent father has the State of Georgia to deal with.
Jerry Townsend, the director of Georgia's Child Support Enforcement Division, does not talk of remaking the welfare system, only about tracking down every parent who does not live up to his or her legal and moral obligations. They may be able to afford just $10 a month, he said, but any amount is a savings to taxpayers.
"We chase them all over creation," Mr. Townsend said.
In Georgia, as in Michigan, Virginia, Washington and other states with aggressive child-support enforcement, payments have steadily risen in the last five years. Georgia, whose aggressive approach began under the current Governor, Zell Miller, a Democrat, collected about $85 million in such payments for welfare families in 1993, compared with $36 million in 1989.
Last year, more than 236,000 fathers in Georgia were under court orders to pay child support. But only 40 percent actually paid. For fathers of welfare children, the rate was even lower, said state officials who could not give exact numbers.
Georgia is one of several states that begin searching for the father before he fades into the community. They stalk him in the maternity ward.
In Georgia, hospital employees, working with the State Department of Human Resources, carry affidavits of paternity along with birth certificates. The fathers, officials have found, tend to visit mothers and newborns in the hospital even if they have no plans to marry the mother or live with her. But in any case, officials press the mothers for the names and Social Security numbers even of fathers they do not see.
"If we have the Social Security number, we have a 50 percent chance of finding the parent," Mr. Swain said. "If we have a name and date of birth, it drops down to 25."
Since fatherhood is not a crime, officials cannot force a father to sign an affidavit of paternity. But in the brief time when the proud father is looking at a new baby, it is more difficult to deny paternity.
For those fathers who never go near the hospital, caseworkers must rely on the mother's information. That goes into a computer network that reaches throughout Georgia and beyond.
If he gives his Social Security number to an employer, they will find him. Once found, the father sometimes admits to paternity. Sometimes a DNA test is needed.
In Atlanta, the state has contracted with a private company to find the absentee fathers. Once paternity is established, the Child Support Enforcement Division draws up a support order and sets the amount the father must pay. If he is unemployed, he is still required to pay a nominal fee.
It is a myth that welfare mothers cannot name the baby's father, Mr. Townsend said. Most welfare babies are not products of one-night stands, but of longer relationships.
Ms. Jackson agreed. "I've got four children from four different daddies, and I know all my children's fathers," she said. Each time, she added, she had hoped that this would be the man who would stand with her.
Mr. Garfinkel, the Columbia professor, said mothers usually had a good reason when they did not name the fathers. A few are afraid they will be beaten by the child's father. Most refuse because they have made an arrangement to get help privately with money or groceries -- promises the fathers may or may not keep. Sometimes the mothers keep silent because they are afraid of losing their companionship.
 
The Fathers
'I Got Nothing' For the Children
 It is not hard to find some of the fathers who are wanted by child-support enforcement officials: They are on the street corners of inner cities, killing time.
Even in Atlanta, where there is a boom because of construction for the 1996 Olympic Games, decent work is scarce, said E. L. Jackson, 23, who said he was the father of two children by two different mothers.
"I got nothing," Mr. Jackson said, when asked if he paid anything to his children, a boy and girl. If he had to choose between child support or a jail sentence, he said, "I'd do time." He also said he loves his children.
Other young men say the same thing. One man, 26, said he worked about half the time, and gave money to the mother when he could. The last time was Christmas. Another man said he paid official child support to two women, but no more than $50 each.
Georgia has an uncommon twist in its payment system. Most states take money from the fathers and use it to repay the state and Federal welfare accounts, passing -- as required by Federal law -- an extra $50 a month to the mothers beyond their normal welfare payment.
But Georgia collects child support and pays it straight to the mothers, reducing their welfare check accordingly, still allowing the mother to keep an extra $50.
The two checks may add up to the same amount for the mothers, but this approach may encourage some fathers to pay more consistently since they see their money passed directly to their children, rather than disappearing into the state treasury.
"Psychologically, that's very good," for both mother and father, Professor Garfinkel said.
The recently passed House bill eliminates the requirement that states pass on an extra $50 of collected child support to mothers on welfare, but the Senate is expected to be asked to reinstate the requirement.
Some of the women in Techwood Homes say that, despite Georgia's good reputation in enforcing child support, there are still too many fathers walking around with money in their pockets, while their children do without.
Although mothers in the project are afraid to talk about drug trafficking there, some absent fathers have fat wads of money in their pockets that officials know nothing about. They make it by selling crack or by other illegal means, money that never makes its way onto a tax return.
One mother of three small children said, "It is the most frustrating aspect of life for many single mothers, when a young man drives a good car and wears nice clothes and the mothers cannot afford Pampers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Georgia, a leader in child-support enforcement, collects $122 a month from the absent father of 5-year-old Avery Anderson, above. But his mother, Sheila, who watched him do homework last month in their apartment in Atlanta, gets angry with those who see child support as a way to curb welfare; "We chase them all over creation," says Jerry Townsend, director of Georgia's Child Support Enforcement Division. In his office last month he displayed a poster intended to help track down delinquent parents. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. D18)
 
Chart: "RETHINKING WELFARE: Collecting from Fathers"
 The Goal -- To increase collection of child support from absent fathers of welfare families, helping the families become less dependent on welfare and reducing public expenses.
 The proposal -- Mothers who do not name the father would have benefits temporarily reduced; numerous measures aim to strengthen the identification of fathers and collection of support payments, including a recommendation that states deny drivers' licenses to non-paying parents.
 Current law -- Many state and Federal laws already aim to establish paternity and collect support payments, though enforcement varies among the states. Mothers who do not name a father are not penalized.
 State experience -- Even in a state like Georgia that is among the most aggressive in tracking down fathers and collecting money, only about one in four welfare families receives support payments, averaging $100 a month. Most of these families still need welfare payments, though the state and Federal governments save some funds.
 Savings -- The Congressional Budget Office estimates that steped up enforcement of child support would increase collections for welfare families by about 10 percent in the year 2000, to $3.5 billion from $3.3 billion. The savings would be largely offset by increased spending on technical assistance and computer systems to improve enforcement and by other policy changes. (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; ILLEGITIMACY; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (93%); POLITICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); PARENTING (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGAL PATERNITY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FAMILY LAW (75%); CHILD POVERTY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); RANKINGS (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK SHEILA ANDERSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



320 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Street Newsstands and Bus Stops Are Giuliani's Latest Concern

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Adding a new plank to his quality-of-life campaign, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced an ambitious effort yesterday to reduce clutter on some of New York City's busiest corners by regulating and in many cases relocating everything from newsstands to bus stop shelters and ultimately, public telephones.
If enacted by the City Council, the plan would bring radical changes to the city's streetscape and provide some organization to New York's chaotic and congested sidewalks. 
 It would alter the way newsstands are owned and operated and limit the number of newspaper vending machines on a single block. And, the Mayor promised, the plan would finally bring public toilets to many sidewalks, after many years of legislative hearings and false starts.
Mr. Giuliani said that the plan was based in part on a desire to make the city's sidewalks more accessible to the disabled. But he also made it clear that he viewed the initiative as a way of ridding the sidewalks of graffiti-covered newsstands and packs of unsightly news boxes chained to street light poles.
"For too long, New York City streets have offered few amenities and much clutter," Mr. Giuliani said, speaking at a news conference in City Hall. "Today, we begin to reverse that trend. New Yorkers deserve more amenities and less clutter."
But newspaper executives and representatives of the newsstand operators were wary of the plan, fearing it could ultimately reduce the number of newsstands and vending boxes and cut into the profits of news dealers.
As the first part of the effort, Mr. Giuliani issued an executive order yesterday instructing various agencies to draw up rules and procedures to clear street corners of news boxes and newsstands and to shift them to clusters in the middle of city blocks.
But the plan also attempts to impose a uniform appearance on sidewalk structures by placing the design, construction and maintenance of all bus shelters, public toilets and newsstands under a single contract.
Mr. Giuliani said that the effect would be to replace the current structures with a new generation of "street furniture," explaining that bidders would be asked to submit new designs for bus shelters and newsstands. The structures would be built at no cost to the city, the Mayor said, with the contractor generating income from advertising.
Although the new rules will apply to all five boroughs, their greatest impact will be in Manhattan, where the vast majority of newsstands and vending boxes are placed.
Currently, newsstand operators pay $1,000 to the city for a two-year license and can operate anywhere they choose. The plan Mr. Giuliani unveiled yesterday would call for newsstand operators to bid for the stands on a competitive basis, thereby increasing revenues to the city.
Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter said a similar arrangement is in use for about 15 newsstands in city parks. On these sites, she said, the city receives fees ranging from $3,000 to more than $100,000 each year.
Despite the likely increase in what newsstand operators pay to the city, Ms. Reiter said the initiative would probably result in an increase in the 330 newsstands on city streets.
But Robert S. Bookman, an attorney for the New York City Newsstand Operators Association, was skeptical of her assessment. With higher fees, he said, "the business would become less profitable." He added: "New York City has lost more than 1,000 newsstands since 1950. And this would cause the decline to continue."
Fred Drasner, co-publisher and chief executive of The Daily News, said his company had "not completed our analysis of what the impact of shifting the boxes would be." The Daily News, Mr. Drasner said, is "favorably disposed to any program that would increase the number of newsstands. But we would obviously be concerned about anything that results in fewer."
Russell T. Lewis, president and general manager of The New York Times, said said he saw no need for further regulation of newspaper vending boxes, citing a 1984 agreement between the city and five daily newspapers that outlined where vending machines could and couldn't be placed.
Under the accord, the newspapers were barred from placing vending boxes in public parks or where they would obstruct fire hydrants, driveways, railway and subway station entrances, bus stops and crosswalks. Although there was no limit placed on the number of machines that could be used, the accord said that no more than three could be placed next to each other.
"The Times doesn't see any need to reinvent the wheel," Mr. Lewis said. "I don't think vending machines represent an imminent danger or threat to public safety."
City officials said last night that they saw no conflict between the Mayor's initiative and the 1984 agreement.
Much of the Mayor's initiative must be approved by the City Council. Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone joined with several committee chairman yesterday in issuing a statement calling the Mayor's plan "a good start toward organizing and cleaning up the haphazard arrangement of structures on city sidewalks."
The shape and design of the new structures remain unclear, mayoral aides said. They said that it was possible that a newsstand and a public toilet could be combined as a single structure. The administration envisions adding public telephones to the structures. They also said that as many as 30 public toilets would be placed on city streets within the next three years on a test basis.
Officials said that under the plan, newspaper boxes and vending machines could no longer be chained to street lamp posts on corners. Instead, they will be required to be bolted to the sidewalk in the middle of the block, with no more than six boxes on any one side of the street. The permits would be issued on a first come, first served basis, the administration said.
Companies in the outdoor advertising market said the Mayor's plan had attractive features.They said that maintaining several different structures provided an economy of scale that would not be realized in servicing either bus shelters or public toilets alone.
"We're very supportive of the concept," said Joan Davidson, a spokeswoman for Gannett Outdoor New York, which has the city contract to maintain and place advertisements on New York's 2,700 bus shelters. "We believe the city's moving in the right direction."
Academics and preservation groups reacted enthusiastically to the Mayor's plan. "Newsstands and street vending have always been a positive force and an attraction in New York City," said Emanuel Tobier, professor of economics and planning and chairman of the urban planning department at New York University. "But it needs to be contained and it would be usefully reined in."
Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, said that the plan would "put a little order into what has been chaos. It sent a message to the world that this great city was incapable of governing its public spaces. This make good street sense."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSDEALERS AND NEWSSTANDS; STREETS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSES; BUS SHELTERS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS NEWSSTANDS (92%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); VANDALISM (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (64%); DISABLED ACCESS (54%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



321 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
A Tradition, and a Resort, at Twilight

BYLINE: By Evelyn Nieves 

DATELINE: SOUTH FALLSBURG, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE Pines Resort Hotel is busy, busy, busy. Chef On Ma is up to his elbows in matzoh balls. The bakers are whining for assistants. Busboys are stacking 4,000 new plates, knives, forks and spoons, which sound something like a symphony for cymbals.
Reservations for Passover have come in at a steady pace, with 700 guests expected tonight, the first of the eight-day holiday. True, this is 100 people short of a sell-out. And there was a time not too long ago when packing the place for Passover was a given. But it is nothing to fret over, all things considered. 
 "I'm not complaining," said Cliff Ehrlich, who knows a good booking when he sees one. He grew up at the Pines when his grandparents and parents ran it and is now a vice president, along with his brother Steve. If tradition still brings some families here when the old days are just about dead, "Great," he says.
But he quickly added that holidays and conferences can't prop up the hotel forever. In fact, he says it all the time. For the last several weeks, he's been running around New York trying to drum up support for the idea of an Oneida Indian casino at the Monticello Raceway.
It was his idea, as vice president of the Catskill Resort Association, to approach the Oneidas, who have gone from bingo games on their reservation in 1985 to opening the modest Turning Point Casino in Verona in 1993 to aiming for the grandeur of a Foxwoods, the richest casino in the country.
Mr. Ehrlich and Ray Halbritter, the Oneida Nation leader, have been joined at the hip since they announced the proposal last month. They've brought business leaders and officials from Sullivan County on bus tours to Turning Point, brought Oneidas to Sullivan County, met with every group with questions every time they've been asked. "Two meetings today," he said Thursday, checking his schedule. Since they unveiled their idea, Mr. Ehrlich said, he has had close to 100 meetings with politicians and community and business people.
 NOT that he has to do much convincing in these parts. Just about everyone in Sullivan County seems to think casino gambling would be salvation. (Remember when it was actually considered bad for a community?) Shopkeepers from Roscoe to South Fallsburg display petitions on their counters for people to show their support. A huge billboard on Route 17 announces "Sullivan County Business Association Welcomes The Oneida Nation." Politicians keep talking about new jobs.
"In all my life -- I'm 35 -- I have never seen anything that has united the community for one effort," Mr. Ehrlich said.
It doesn't seem to matter that Gov. George E. Pataki said no immediately to the idea of another Indian (tax-free) casino in New York, and is wavering on the idea of legalized state-run casinos. "He told us he wanted details," Mr. Ehrlich said, adding that the plan is to present a package of information to the Governor's office on May 15.
"It's an economic project," he said. "We want it so badly because there is only so much we can do here now."
The Pines, like the few other remaining year-round Catskill resorts, is holding on for dear life. It recognizes two seasons: on and on. But the situation has been off season for years, and it is trying hard to shake the "faded Borscht Belt" image.
Bruce Siegal, the Pines manager, sounds dismayed that it isn't more popular. "We have everything!" he said. (He isn't part of the Ehrlich family, but he might as well be. At 34, he has worked at the hotel for 17 years. When he gives a tour, it's as if he owned the place.)
"Think of it as a cruise ship on land," he said. "Look at that indoor pool. It has its own complex. Look at that: miniature golf. Look, here's the ice-skating rink." And the outdoor pool, he said, with a wave of his hand, has barbecues on deck in season.
"My parents in Brooklyn go to Atlantic City for a weekend every month," he said. "They could be coming here instead."
 LIKE the Concord, which bills itself as the golf and skiing resort, The Pines has tried different ways to lure new guests.
"Theme weekends," Mr. Ehrlich said. "We do a bluegrass festival. We do two Irish weekends a year. Four polka weekends. We do a country dance weekend twice a year. A ballroom dance weekend twice a year."
But none of that could compete with the ching-ching-ching of one-armed bandits. The Pines even promised tour groups free trips to Atlantic City or Las Vegas. "We'd give senior groups two free tickets to one of the casinos for every full bus," Mr. Ehrlich said. "We did that for two years!"
The Pines doesn't do it anymore, but Mr. Ehrlich is fatalistic. Passover will be lovely. The hotel is opening -- it has been closed for a few days to prepare -- looking spiffy. The guests will be greeted like long-lost relatives. It will be the way it's always been.
"I don't want it to end," he said. "But if we don't get casinos, I think this will be the last generation of the hotel. I just don't see how we can keep it up."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

COMPANY: PINES RESORT HOTEL (CATSKILLS) PINES RESORT HOTEL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PINES RESORT HOTEL (CATSKILLS)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; PASSOVER; GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MONTICELLO RACEWAY; CASINOS; HOTELS AND MOTELS RESORTS (91%); PASSOVER (90%); GAMING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CASINOS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); FAMILY (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); MOUNTAINS (69%); GRANDPARENTS (68%); COUNTIES (67%); 

PERSON: EHRLICH, CLIFF CLIFF EHRLICH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



322 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Now on Moscow TV, Heeere's Aleksandr!

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 13

 BODY:
Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, the great anti-Soviet dissident who while living in exile in Vermont turned his wrath on the empty materialism and lowbrow culture of the West, has found a new calling since he returned to a free Russia.
He is a talk show host. 
 Mr. Solzhenitsyn, winner of the 1970 Nobel Prize in Literature, has not resorted to interviewing women-who-love-men-too-much or celebrity chefs. But the austere, bearded 76-year-old writer, a man revered and feared as a 20th-century prophet, has adapted quite nimbly to the mass media revolution that swept his country in his absence.
On his talk show, "A Meeting With Solzhenitsyn," he has chatted with well-known personalities like Svyatoslav N. Federov, a leading eye surgeon; Vladimir P. Lukin, a former Ambassador to Washington, and some of the country's most notable journalists.
Given to treating his guests to long, lofty monologues, Mr. Solzhenitsyn comes across as a combination of Charlie Rose and Moses.
"It is horrible that our officialdom is invulnerable," he said recently during a screed on the unaccountability of the Russian bureaucracy. "One cannot find the truth, and the horrible thing is that shamelessness is spilling over our society. The absence of conscience and honesty is the air of our society. It was like this in Soviet society, and it is going on now -- shamelessness is reigning."
The show is taped in Mr. Solzhenitsyn's apartment in Moscow, in his study. He and his guests sit side by side at his desk, against the backdrop of a giant bookcase crammed with books. Mr. Solzhenitsyn keeps a few handwritten notes on the desk, but mostly he speaks, apocalyptically, off the top of his head.
The Russian press has written almost nothing about the show. On the air since September, it has not been reviewed by television critics. But other Russian talk show hosts speak condescendingly about Mr. Solzhenitsyn's television venture.
"For the post-perestroika generation, he really means nothing," said Artyom Troitsky, a writer and rock critic who has a post-midnight talk show, "Cafe Oblomov."
"Why should anyone now care about the Gulag Archipelago?" he added. "I'm afraid that Solzhenitsyn is totally, totally passe."
But there are fans. Mr. Solzhenitsyn said on one show that he gets 30 to 40 letters a day, mostly from desperate older people imploring him to intercede on their behalf. He said his mail illustrated the corrosion of the Russian political system.
"In most cases, people ask for protection -- protection from courts, from state bodies of power, from officials," he said.
And some of the political leaders that Mr. Solzhenitsyn criticizes with such verve also pay heed to his show. President Boris N. Yeltsin's office often asks the television studio for transcripts of the program. So do some members of Parliament.
Mr. Solzhenitsyn recently staged a blistering attack on the Government's decision to reorganize state television and create a public station that will be partly owned by a consortium of banks and businesses that favor the current administration.
Sergei Blagovolin, the head of the public station, boasted that by not interfering with Mr. Solzhenitsyn's denunciation, he had illustrated the new station's commitment to fairness.
Mr. Solzhenitsyn's ratings are respectable, but not high. An April 3 survey of 650 random Moscow viewers showed that while 12 percent watched his show, 19.3 percent preferred to watch the talk show of Vladimir Pozner, who learned how to whip up a studio audience American-style while working alongside Phil Donahue in the 1980's.
Some of Mr. Solzhenitsyn's worst fears about the Westernization of the Russian soul appear to be true: The show with the highest ratings, 26.6 percent, was "Wild Rose," a Mexican soap opera.
When Mr. Solzhenitsyn returned to Russia last May after 20 years in exile -- 18 in virtual isolation in Vermont -- his comeback caused a sensation that flared brightly but petered out.
Most Russians, preoccupied with their daily lives and economic survival, have tuned out the fierce rectitude and scolding of the man who spent eight years in Stalin's labor camps and exposed the full horror of Soviet oppression in works like "The Gulag Archipelago," "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" and "Cancer Ward."
After a two-month train ride across Siberia, which he took to reacquaint himself with ordinary Russians, he received little attention from the new Russian elite.
Democrats were alienated by his nationalistic views. Even former dissidents like Gleb Yakunin, a defrocked Russian Orthodox priest, worried openly that the inflexible Slavophile would become another "Ayatollah Khomeini," stirring up fundamentalism and xenophobia.
But Mr. Solzhenitsyn was equally withering about the ultra-nationalist leader Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, calling him a "caricature of a Russian patriot."
Younger intellectuals, more attuned to irony than moral certitude, take delight in knocking the towering figure of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
"It's better to have him speak than write," said Viktor Yerofeyev, a novelist and literary critic. "He writes such ugly Russian." He said that with the talk show, Mr. Solzhenitsyn had returned to his roots: "He is once again what he always was at heart -- a provincial schoolteacher."
Mr. Solzhenitsyn's most recent opus, "The Red Wheel," a 5,000-page history of the Russian Revolution, was coolly received by critics and largely unread by the public.
So when he arrived in Moscow, Mr. Solzhenitsyn turned to a more accessible medium, television.
"We completely do everything that Mr. Solzhenitsyn wants," said Alvar V. Kakuchaya, director of the Russian state television channel, No. 1, that produces his talk show. "He knows how much we respect him. I think that is why he chose us to broadcast his program."
Mr. Solzhenitsyn alone selects his guests. When the station offered him 15 minutes, he demanded 20. He also insisted on being broadcast on prime time, 9:40 P.M., the slot after the news, even though he is up against highly popular movie channels.
However dour and uncompromising his message, Mr. Solzhenitsyn is an energetic and compelling speaker, surprisingly at ease before the camera. But there is little small talk on his show.
When he introduced one recent guest, Mr. Lukin, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the lower house of Parliament, as a former Ambassador to the United States, he brushed off Mr. Lukin's ingratiating reply -- "Oh, but you too were an ambassador ..." -- and raced ahead to one of his favorite topics, the perfidy of the West. The International Monetary Fund and Radio Liberty are among his pet peeves.
"This is a very ambiguous organization today; it seems to consist of our people, our contemporaries, living among us but receiving their salaries from Washington and their instructions from Washington," Mr. Solzhenitzyn said of Radio Liberty, which is financed by the United States Government. "This is direct interference in our affairs."
Mr. Lukin, like most other guests, did not get much of a chance to respond. Most shows are less a conversation than dueling monologues.
Which may explain why there will be a slight change in the format of "A Meeting With Solzhenitsyn" beginning next week. His wife, Natalya, explained that after an seven-month trial run, Mr. Solzhenitsyn has decided that the show would work better without guests.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, the austere author, has become a talk show host. He chats, below, with his wife, Natalya, and, above, with Svyatoslav N. Fedorov, Russia's most famous eye surgeon. (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); MUSIC REVIEWS (62%); POLITICS (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); 

PERSON: SOLZHENITSYN, ALEKSANDR; STANLEY, ALESSANDRA CHARLIE ROSE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



323 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Clinton Sees Little Basis for Dollar's Fall

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
In his most extensive comments on the dollar since it began its recent fall, President Clinton said today that he saw little basis in reality for its recent weakness. He expressed confidence that financial markets would ultimately take into account the effects of his Administration's fiscal policy.
"The United States will continue to reduce the deficit, we will reduce it more, we will have a responsible policy, and the dollar will respond accordingly," Mr. Clinton declared. 
 In an interview on CNN, Mr. Clinton said nothing to indicate whether the Treasury was prepared to intervene again in defense of the American currency, but he suggested strongly that the dollar was being wrongly undervalued.
"The economic condition of the American people is a whole lot better than the economy of Japan and Germany right now," the President said. "We have lower unemployment, we produce more jobs, we have low inflation."
Mr. Clinton spoke before Japan's Government and ruling coalition parties agreed to a package of fiscal stimulus measures as part of a new effort to rein in the surging yen. A senior Treasury official later declined to comment upon that Japanese package because he had not yet seen the details. All that another Administration official would say was that the package appeared to be tentative.
But for his part, the President was clearly determined to signal that the United States remained solidly on a course of deficit reduction, which should make the dollar more attractive to investors.
"The world markets may not know it yet, but that's going to be the policy of the United States," Mr. Clinton said. He said that he would favor nothing more than "appropriate, targeted, modest tax cuts," and said he believed such a plan would be approved despite the already approved quest by House Republicans for more sweeping tax reductions.
In this Administration as in previous ones, the President has generally avoided commenting about the dollar, in large part out of recognition that even comments intended as benign can have an enormous effect on the currency markets. Even today, Mr. Clinton was careful to say that he had "no idea" what had happened to drive the dollar so low.
But with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin en route to Indonesia and the first stop on a weeklong economic mission, Mr. Clinton assumed an unusually prominent role today in talking about the currency during the 30-minute television interview, which was shown tonight on CNN.
The President did not single out the Republicans by name. But he seemed to be suggesting that their efforts to push deep tax cuts through Congress might have been responsible for the markets' trepidation about the dollar.
"When I was in charge of economic policy and the Congress was supporting it," Mr. Clinton said pointedly, "we had lower deficits, low inflation, high growth and a dollar that was stronger."
"I'm still in charge of economic policy," he said, interrupting himself at one point. "The question is, what's the Congress going to do?"
Mr. Clinton added a final swipe at his rivals' reluctance to detail exactly how they would finance the tax reductions they have proposed. "It's unwise to be out here talking about tax cuts until you explain how you're going to reduce the deficit," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX LAW (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); POLITICS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



324 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Dr. David Thompson, 72, Dies; Ex-Head of New York Hospital

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Dr. David D. Thompson, who led New York Hospital during 20 years of sweeping medical advances and turbulent upheaval until his retirement as director in 1987, died yesterday at the hospital where he had spent all but two years of an almost 50-year career. He was 72 and lived in Tenafly, N.J.
The hospital said he died of leukemia. 
 The two decades that Dr. Thompson served as director of one of the nation's premier teaching hospitals were a period of vast changes in medicine, among them the introduction of such advanced diagnostic techniques as CAT scans, M.R.I.'s and endoscopic examinations, and the development of a profusion of new therapeutic drugs.
As the 1,000-bed hospital's budget soared from $39 million when he became director in 1967 to $395 million when he retired in 1987, Dr. Thompson also supervised considerable capital expansion, including the development of the city's first advanced burn unit, new centers for the care of premature infants and for dialysis, and a pronounced shift from inpatient treatment to ambulatory care.
Dr. Thompson, who made it a point to take time to chat with employees even as his staff grew to more than 5,000, sought a similar rapport with the hospital's patients. He may not have been able to visit them all, but he was responsible for developing one of the nation's first patient-advocate programs.
For all the accomplishments, Dr. Thompson's tenure was also a period of unusual strain, including a series of well-publicized allegations of medical lapses by the hospital. But whether he was dealing with a siege by demonstrators and the news media during the controversial treatment of the deposed Shah of Iran in 1979, or responding to the charges, recriminations and litigation that followed the deaths of Libby Zion in 1984 and Andy Warhol in 1987, Dr. Thompson faced each succeeding crisis with equanimity.
"He was so even tempered," his longtime friend and colleague, Dr. John Ellis, said yesterday. "I never heard him say an unkind word about anybody."
That may have been because wherever he went at New York Hospital and its sister institution, Cornell Medical College, Dr. Thompson was always at home.
He was born and bred a Cornell man, and except for two years he spent with the National Institutes of Health in lieu of military service in the Korean War, he never strayed from the Big Red fold.
A native of Ithaca, where his father was a professor of agriculture at Cornell, he graduated from Cornell in 1943, received his medical degree from Cornell in 1946, served both as an intern and resident at New York Hospital and held a succession of positions at both the hospital and the college.
Although he had a promising career as a researcher into kidney diseases, he was lured into administration by his mentor, Dr. Hugh Luckey, the last man to serve as overall director of both the college and the hospital.
Dr. Thompson, known as a man who was not afraid of change, earned his reputation as a medical innovator early on. At a time when it was a cliche for a doctor to marry a nurse, Dr. Thompson married a doctor.
"I was the only girl in the class," she said yesterday, "and I married the cream of the crop."
In addition to his wife, Lynn, he is survived by three sons, David Jr., of Niantic, Conn., Richard of Meriden, N.H., and Peter of Yarmouth, Me.; a daughter, Catherine McKee of St. Mary's, Ga.; a brother, John, of Ithaca, and eight granchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. David D. Thompson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL MEDICAL COLLEGE (80%); NEW YORK HOSPITAL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HOSPITAL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (75%); ENDOSCOPY (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); WOUND CARE (73%); LEUKEMIA (73%); DIALYSIS (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); LITIGATION (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); KOREAN WAR (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); KIDNEY DISEASE (55%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, DAVID D (DR); THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR DAVID D THOMPSON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



325 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: The P.L.O. Crackdown in Gaza

 BODY:
Under heavy pressure from Israel and the United States, Yasir Arafat's Palestinian Authority has launched its toughest crackdown yet against Islamic groups who would wreck the Israel-Palestinian peace agreement by terror. Mr. Arafat's police in Gaza have arrested hundreds of people from the two main militant groups, Hamas and Islamic Holy War. The Palestinian administration has also announced a new drive to register weapons and has begun sentencing fiery orators to harsh terms for "inciting civil strife."
The Islamic groups have responded with rhetorical defiance but tactical caution. They are as anxious as Mr. Arafat to avoid an intra-Palestinian civil war in Gaza. So far Mr. Arafat has moved mainly against preachers, journalists and low-level militants, not armed fighters or commanders. It is far from clear whether his resolve, or the militants' restraint, will last. 
 Mr. Arafat is in an unenviable position. His political standing among Palestinians has tumbled in the face of delays and disappointments in the peace process. Autonomy seems to have made little practical difference to ordinary lives.
Meanwhile repeated suicide attacks on Israeli targets make Mr. Arafat look weak to Palestinians and Israelis alike. Some of his troubles are his own fault. He has never been skilled at administration and he has been extremely reluctant to be seen as Israel's ally in the war against terrorism.
Even a fully committed Mr. Arafat is unlikely to eliminate Gaza-based terrorism. The Israelis did not succeed when they controlled the area. Close to a million Palestinians, many unemployed, live in 140 square miles of desert squalor.
Under the best of conditions Mr. Arafat cannot hope to make Gaza a model of smoothly functioning Palestinian autonomy. Autonomy's future, if it has one, is in the more economically and demographically promising terrain of the West Bank. Last month Israel and the P.L.O. set a July 1 target for agreement on Palestinian elections and Israeli troop withdrawals in much of the West Bank.
The peace process has often been a cruel disappointment, for Israelis who expected an end to terrorism and for Palestinians who expected an end to misery and humiliation. But abandoning it would be crueler still.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; EDITORIALS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); RELIGION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); HAMAS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); DESERTS (50%); 

PERSON: ARAFAT, YASIR TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



326 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Endangered Integrity

 BODY:
Republicans bent on weakening the nation's environmental laws are trashing the principles of decent government in the process.
This double insult was underscored this week when Senator Slade Gorton of Washington unveiled a bill that would scrap major provisions of the Endangered Species Act. Making light work for himself, Mr. Gorton farmed out the chore of drafting his revision to a group of Washington lawyers representing timber, mining, ranching and utility interests that have a huge economic stake in disabling the current law. Those industries have also contributed sizably to Mr. Gorton's re-election campaign. Mr. Gorton says he did not bother to consult with environmentalists because he already knew what their views were. 
 This is the same one-sided methodology employed by Representative Bud Shuster of Pennsylvania, chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, who essentially let lawyers and lobbyists for special interests draft his bill to gut the Clean Water Act of 1972.
The issue of how best to protect the environment while avoiding possible cases of overzealous regulation is a matter that needs mature national debate. Legislators are supposed to foster that process, not just give campaign contributors what they paid for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ANIMALS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; EDITORIALS US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (55%); WATER QUALITY (52%); 

PERSON: GORTON, SLADE (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



327 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Prices Higher in Shortened Session

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher yesterday, in a shortened trading session, on weak retail sales data that suggested economic growth was continuing slowly enough to keep inflation under control.
Yesterday's half-day session in advance of Good Friday and the start of Passover was choppy but uneventful as the Commerce Department reported weaker-than-expected March retail sales, or about half the gain most market participants expected. 
 Today the financial markets will be closed.
The previous two sales reports released by the Commerce Department both showed a moderation in retail sales, and each time bonds rallied.
Yesterday, the 30-year bond rose 7/32 , to a price of 10317/32 for a yield of 7.33 percent, down from 7.35 percent on Wednesday. The yields of bonds move in the opposite direction of their prices.
Market expectations of slower economic growth have taken the yield on a Government 30-year bond from a peak of 8.16 percent in November to 7.33 percent yesterday, with the average yield in the last few weeks about 7.38 percent, as traders wait for more signs of a slowdown.
Trader said that despite another weak report, investors remained skeptical, and as long as they did, yields were not likely to rise or fall drastically.
Traders also said that the strong direction of the retail sales report was still not enough to force yields either way, leaving some investors unconvinced that the pace of economic expansion is slowing from last year's growth rate of 4.1 percent, a 10-year high.
Separately, the Labor Department reported yesterday that the number of Americans filing initial claims for jobless benefits fell an unexpected 4,000 last week to 338,000, compared with expectations of an increase of 1,000.
And in another economic report yesterday, the University of Michigan said its preliminary consumer confidence index for April rose to 93.8 points from 90.3, higher than the 91 that economists expected.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, said several elements had moved the bond market: Along with the continued softness in the retail sales data, there are expectations that data to be released today will show declines in both industrial production and capacity utilization and another large and to some extent undesired increase in business inventories. Mr. Fine also attributed some of the movement yesterday to short-covering before the long weekend.
He said while the University of Michigan's sentiment index moved up quite noticeably, it had still not reached the levels seen in January and February, giving support to the view that "any improvement in consumer spending over the near term is likely to be moderate and will not alter the concept of a slowing economy."
Mr. Fine said that all the recent economic statistics, taken together, "strongly suggest no change in Fed policy" concerning short-term interest rates during the May 23 meeting of the central bank's policy making committee.
He said that traders' growing belief in a neutral Fed "is the primary reason for the sharp decline in yields at the short end of the curve since the beginning of April." He added that the long bond has stayed around its current level over the last month following a sharp rally begun last November, and will need further evidence that the economy's pace during the second quarter is continuing to move toward the Fed's desired goal of 2.5 percent before the rally can continue.
In the municipal market, bond prices also moved higher as large investors grabbed large blocks of bonds being offered for sale. Traders and dealers said the large blocks of bonds were getting a bit expensive as investors were willing to pay more money for size.
The Bond Buyer's index comprised of 40 municipal issues was down two basis points, to an average yield of 6.25 percent to first call. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weeky yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Dec. '94-April '95. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); RETAIL SALES (92%); BONDS (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); EASTER SEASON (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



328 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Declines on Expectations That Fed Won't Increase Rates

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most leading currencies yesterday. Some currency dealers said the decline was prompted by an economic report that supported expectations that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates soon.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that retail sales rose two-tenths of 1 percent in March, much weaker than economists' estimates. The data provided further evidence that the United States economy was in a slowdown, which means the Fed has little need to raise rates to curb inflationary growth. Higher rates usually tend to bolster the value of a currency by making deposits denominated in it more attractive. 
 The retail sales report "got the ball rolling for the dollar to fall," said Vicki Schmelzer Alicea, currency saleswoman for Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in New York.
In New York late yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.3864 German marks from 1.4010 marks on Wednesday. The dollar slipped to 83.50 yen from 83.75 yen.
The dollar did not fall as far against the yen as it did against the mark because of expectations that the Japanese Government would present a package of economic measures today aimed at curbing the yen's strength by stimulating import demand and helping companies cope with the dollar's 16 percent drop against the yen this year.
The strong yen hurts Japan's economy by hobbling its exporters.
Currency trading is expected to be thin today and Monday. United States financial markets are closed for the Good Friday holiday, while today and Monday are national holidays in London, the world's biggest center for currency trading.
"Anticipation of a thin market and uncertainty about the Japanese package is giving people pause before establishing short-dollar positions," said David De Rosa, director of currency trading at the Swiss Bank Corporation in New York.
Traders take short-dollar positions by selling the dollar, hoping to buy it back later at lower levels.
In other currency trading, the British pound rose to $1.6095, from $1.5925 on Wednesday. The Canadian dollar rose to 72.78 United States cents from 72.75 cents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WESTLB AG (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES CURRENCIES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EASTER SEASON (77%); RETAILERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



329 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Sticking Point Emerges on U.S.-China Trade

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, April 13

 BODY:
Wrapping up a contentious week of trade talks in China, a senior United States official said today that the reluctance of China to open its markets remained a serious impediment to its plans to join the global trading community.
Remarks by the official, Under Secretary of Commerce Jeffrey E. Garten, pointed to a stubborn gap between Beijing and Washington on trade issues. Despite the signing of a landmark intellectual property rights agreement in February that both sides hailed as a model of cooperation, China and the United States do not even agree about the size of their trade imbalance, much less what to do about it. 
 Mr. Garten and the Foreign Trade Minister, Wu Yi, argued publicly at a conference in Beijing earlier this week. Ms. Wu angrily accused Mr. Garten of violating a promise to support China's membership in the World Trade Organization after he told reporters on the eve of trade talks that such support depended on further steps to open China's market.
Mr. Garten said today that his comments, in The International Herald Tribune, had not been intended as a warning and had been taken out of context. But he did not deny that American support for China to join the trade organization would hinge on its willingness to improve market access.
China's rules restricting foreign access to its service industries -- like banking, law and accounting -- have been the target of American pressure for years, Mr. Garten said. But apart from pressing for the rules to be made less restrictive, he said, the Clinton Administration is also taking an advocate's position by urging China to approve specific projects that are pending.
"Now we're saying, we can't wait for those rules to change," Mr. Garten said. "We're coming at it from both ends."
Mr. Garten said he had urged Chinese officials to approve $15 billion worth of American projects in power, environmental technology, transportation and communications. He said his talks with Ms. Wu and other officials had been constructive, but he did not report any breakthrough.
Market access is a touchy issue between the United States and China now because of the palpable desire by China's leaders to join the World Trade Organization. China has argued that it should be allowed entry on political terms, the same way that other, if smaller, developing nations are treated.
However, American and European trade officials hold that the pre-eminent status of China as a major world trader means that it should join on the same rules that apply to other large members, or on commercial terms, in the trade organization's terminology.
"China wants entry to the W.T.O., and we would like to see it enter," Mr. Garten said while in Beijing. "But unless they come in on terms that promote a more open economy, we will be unable to support the Chinese entry."
American officials say they have a $29.5 billion trade deficit with China -- China says it is substantially less, but does not count exports through Hong Kong -- and Mr. Garten said it was uncomfortably large and growing at a surprisingly fast rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ACCOUNTING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); APPROVALS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%); BANKING LAW (50%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E (UNDER SEC); FAISON, SETH WU YI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



330 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Umpires See First Pitch, From the Owners

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
As replacement umpires worked the first 1995 exhibition games not played by replacement players, major league umpires yesterday received management's first proposal since the National and American leagues locked them out on Jan. 1.
Robert Kheel, the lawyer who negotiates for the leagues, and Richie Phillips, the umpires' lawyer, both declined to disclose details of the proposal. 
 "I continue to urge them to moderate their position," Kheel said. "I offered them some inducements to do that."
Phillips, after the two-hour meeting in New York, said: "The proposal was not enough of a move on their part to give me optimism that there's going to be a quick resolution to this dispute. But it was certainly meaningful to the extent that it stimulates negotiations."
Phillips said he was evaluating the umpires' positions on the major economic issues and would have a counterproposal "in the next two days."
The leagues previously offered the umpires only a cost-of-living increase in salary for each of the four years of the proposed agreement. In the expired agreement, the salary scale for all four years ranged from $60,000 for rookies to $175,000 for umpires with 25 years of major league service.
The new proposal, Phillips said, "increases and modifies" the previous offer. The only specific example he provided was that the offer removes the cap on the maximum salary for 25-year umpires, who would not have received even a cost-of-living increase.
Phillips said the leagues also had increased their offers in the other major economic areas of per-diem payments, retirement pay and pay for special events.
The umpires have asked for a raise that would amount to a 53 percent increase over the past four years and the next four.
"The ball's in their court," Kheel said. "The main point, from my perspective, is it's entirely up to them. If they want to make an agreement, they know the parameters that we believe are reasonable in a year coming off a strike."
Asked if he was encouraged, Jerry Crawford, the president of the umpires association, said, "The thing that's encouraging is they made an offer, the first offer they've made since Jan. 1."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; UMPIRES; LOCKOUTS; LABOR BASEBALL (92%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COST OF LIVING (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); 

PERSON: RICHIE PHILLIPS (92%); ROBERT KHEEL (81%); JOHN MAJOR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



331 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
JAPANESE SETTLE ON PLAN TO CURB THE SURGING YEN

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, April 14

 BODY:
Japan's Government announced an emergency plan this morning aimed at halting the precipitous fall of the dollar against the yen and at rescuing the nation's fragile economy from the brink of another recession.
As part of the effort, the Japanese central bank later cut the discount rate three-quarters of a percentage point, to a record low of 1 percent. 
 In putting together the plan, officials here hope to convince a skeptical world that they are serious about reducing their huge trade surplus, which is considered a major factor behind the relentless rise of the yen and fall of the dollar.
The package is also an acknowledgment that Japan must act on its own because the United States does not appear fully intent on propping up the dollar against the yen. This is the view in Tokyo despite an angry call this week by Japan's Finance Minister that Washington do something to halt the dollar's slide and despite pronouncements from Clinton Administration officials that they favor a stronger dollar.
Some analysts think the United States prefers to see the dollar weak against the yen, though not necessarily against all currencies, because it makes American products more competitive against Japanese products and increases pressure on Japan to make trade concessions.
The United States and Japan are entering what could be a final round of negotiations aimed at increasing sales in Japan of American automobiles and auto parts.
So what was seen as a problem of a weak dollar a couple of weeks ago has now been transformed into a problem of a strong yen. Increasingly, the yen's strength has had the effect of a vise squeezing Japan's economy, reducing the demand for its exports as they become more expensive abroad.
Today, the Japanese took a big step toward restraining the yen's rise and bolstering the dollar -- cutting the benchmark discount rate, the interest rate charged when the central bank makes short-term loans to banks. Other short-term Japanese rates fell earlier in the day in anticipation of the rate cut.
The discount rate cut is expected to lower returns on Japanese deposits, making investments in yen less attractive to foreigners and those in dollars more appealing.
The rate cut was not a formal part of the Government's economic package because the central bank has autonomy in setting rates. But it was widely expected.
The American Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, reacted favorably to the Japanese central bank's rate reduction. "We welcome today's action by the Bank of Japan as a constructive step in light of economic conditions and financial market developments," he said at a stop in Honolulu on his way to a finance ministers' meeting in on the Indonesian island of Bali.
The Japanese markets reacted modestly to the economic plan and the rate cut. This afternoon, the dollar was quoted here at 83.78 yen, up from 83.50 yen in New York late Thursday. Japanese stock prices slipped, with the Nikkei index of 225 issues trading down 152.98 points, or nearly 1 percent, to stand at 16,285.81
The recent strength of the yen has made Japanese officials so desperate to halt their currency's rise that some politicians argued into the early hours today for the nation to demonstrate its commitment by setting a numerical target -- cutting the trade surplus in half in five years.
That would have been an extraordinary reversal, given that Japan has spent the last two years resisting attempts by American trade negotiators to establish just such targets.
But Government bureaucrats, considered more powerful in this country in making policy than elected officials, managed to get such targets deleted from the package, leaving only a statement of "strong determination" to cut the surplus.
Finance Minister Masayoshi Takemura contended that it would have been difficult to turn such targets into national policy.
Japanese officials say their plan will help reduce the trade surplus by stimulating the economy, thus increasing the demand for imported products. Import-promotion measures are also included in the proposal, as is the elimination of some regulations, making the Japanese market easier to penetrate.
The emergency plan was ordered on Monday after the dollar dropped to a new low of 80.15 yen in Tokyo trading, falling a frightening 4 percent in the space of a few hours, before bouncing back.
Yet some economists here said the plan -- which also includes steps to increase public works spending and accelerate deregulation -- was too weak and unspecific and could be rejected by the markets, sending the dollar plunging again.
"It's very big and broad and comprehensive in the skeleton with very little meat attached to it," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith of Morgan Stanley & Company. "I think this is going to disappoint the market."
The fall of the dollar from a level of about 100 yen in January to about 83 yen now makes Japan's exports of automobiles, electronics and other products more costly and less competitive in world markets. It has also sent the Japanese stock market plunging, deepening a sense of insecurity that had also been fed by the earthquake in Kobe in January and last month's poison-gas attack in the Tokyo subways.
Some economists predict that Japan, which had only recently begun to recover from its longest economic slump in four decades, will now experience a "double dip" recession. Other economists, however, think the economy has enough resiliency to continue its recovery, although at a slower rate.
Tokyo has repeatedly called for coordinated action among major nations to control exchange rates, but has largely been disappointed. The dollar has weakened mainly against the yen and the German mark and not against most currencies, so recent currency fluctuations are not considered big problems for the United States, some analysts say.
Other measures can influence the psychology of the currency markets, by trying to convince traders that Japan's trade surplus will be reduced. The surplus is considered an important long-term factor behind the rise of the yen because Japanese exporters earn huge amounts of dollars they then convert back into yen, and are therefore always selling the dollar and buying yen.
Japan has announced numerous plans to spur imports and abolish trade barriers, most of which have been considered inadequate by the nation's trading partners.
Today's package calls for carrying out a recently announced five-year deregulation plan in three years. But the original plan, put forth on March 31, was widely derided as insufficient, so accelerating it is not expected to make a big difference.
In addition to trying to influence currency rates, the package is aimed at helping the economy cushion the effects of the strong yen. Among other things, it calls for increased public works spending as a fiscal stimulus.
There are steps to lend financial support to small and medium-size businesses, which are among those most hurt by the yen's rise. Unlike the larger companies like Toyota and Sony, the smaller companies often lack the wherewithal to be able to move their factories abroad to escape the yen's rise.
The plan also calls on the Government to urge industries to pass along the benefits of the strong yen by reducing prices of imported products. They would, for instance, hope for cuts in gas and electricity rates, which depend on imported fuel.
Jesper Koll of J. P. Morgan here said the plan might be more successful in helping the economy than in directly influencing exchange rates. "Apart from cutting the discount rate, there is very little that a change in fiscal policy will do to impact exchange rates," he said.
The plan is also aimed at satisfying Japan's angry business leaders, who say the weak three-party coalition Government has been too slow to act. The failure of the central bank to cut the discount rate on March 31, after Germany had cut its rate, contributed to a renewed rise of the yen.
Mr. Rubin and Finance Minister Takemura will be attend a meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum this weekend. The Group of Seven industrial nations are expected to discuss currency issues the following weekend in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Japanese Discount Rate" tracks rate since the beginning of 1990. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995



332 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.N. Offers to Ease Sanctions Against Iraq
 The Security Council voted unanimously to offer Iraq easier terms under which it could sell oil to meet its need for medicine, food and other essential items. If Iraq accepts the plan, it would be the first break in the sanctions that have constricted the Iraqi economy since Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. 
 Iraq's reaction to the vote was negative but not dismissive. It was couched in an attack on the United States, a sponsor of the resolution along with Argentina, Britain, Oman and Rwanda. The Iraqis accused Washington of making the proposal too harsh. Under the plan, Iraq could sell as much as $2 billion in oil within 180 days, but 30 percent of the proceeds would go to victims of the invasion. Page 1.

Industrial Output Down in March
 The Fed said industrial output fell 0.3 percent last month, the first time in six months that the nation's mines, factories and utilities cut production. The drop is one of several recent signs that the economy is rapidly losing steam. In addition, the Government reported that capacity use rates fell and business inventories rose. 33.
 
Japan Gains in U.S. Trade
 Japan said its trade surplus with the United States continued to widen, rising to $5.08 billion in March and $55.7 billion in the fiscal year. Over all, its surplus shrank to $13.8 billion in March and $118 billion for the year. 32.
 
Court Upholds Ban of Alcatel Chief
 A Paris court rejected an appeal by Pierre Suard, the chairman and chief executive of Alcatel Alsthom, of a temporary injunction that prevents him from working at the company while he is being investigated for misuse of corporate funds. 32.
 
Couple Convicted in Tax Protest
 A Federal jury in New Hampshire convicted a couple in the tax protest movement of evading Federal income taxes for four years. Stuart Tulchinsky and his wife, Cathie Schneider, the prosperous owners of what prosecutors called drug paraphernalia shops, said they believed that the Federal income tax system was voluntary. 34.
 
Clinton and Gore Release Returns
 President Clinton and his wife released their Federal tax return, which showed they claimed $30,125 in charitable contributions, or 11 percent of their adjusted gross income of $263,900. The Clintons paid $55,313 in Federal taxes, or 21 percent of their adjusted income in 1994. Vice President Al Gore and his wife paid $142,688 in Federal taxes, or 35 percent of their $411,713 adjusted income. They claimed no itemized deductions. 8.

U.S.-European Free Trade Is Pushed
 An idea for a trans-Atlantic free-trade agreement has caught the attention of politicians, trade experts and business executives in Europe and the United States. Its proponents said an agreement could include the elimination of tariffs and quotas on services, on new telecommunications products and on government procurement policies. 32.
 
Baseball's New Labor Woe: Umpires
 When the baseball season opens on April 25, the players will likely take the field with replacement umpires and may even have to cross picket lines set up by the umpires union. The National and American Leagues locked out their 64 umpires Jan. 1 and don't intend to ask them back to work until the two sides negotiate a collective bargaining agreement. 1.
 
Brazil Hopes to Woo U.S. Business
 Brazil's new president, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, is beginning a five-day visit to the United States on Monday with plans to shift Americans' attention from Mexico to his country. In speeches to business executives in New York, he is expected to outline expanding investment opportunities in Brazil. 5.
 
Italy Cannot Halt Fuel Flow to Serbia
 A senior official in the Italian Foreign Ministry said Rome could do little to stop Italian oil companies from selling fuel to Albania, even though most of the fuel is apparently being smuggled to Serbia in violation of a United Nations embargo. Italy allows tankers to sail only after Albania has verified that the shipments are for domestic consumption, but American officials said the verification system has broken down. 3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); JURY TRIALS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); INCOME TAX (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (64%); INJUNCTIONS (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



333 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: Belated Regrets About Vietnam Create a Consensus of Antipathy

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

 BODY:
Robert S. McNamara's recently expressed regrets about United States involvement in the Vietnam War seem to be reopening old wounds and reviving a raw debate that was beginning to slip into history.
Reaction to the former Defense Secretary's revised views, published in his new book, "In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam," has mostly been relentlessly negative, with little credence or charity accorded Mr. McNamara's comment that "we were wrong, terribly wrong." 
 The criticism has come from just about every quarter -- combat veterans, former colleagues in Government, hawks, doves, editorialists and, of course, the children of the 60's who took to the streets and to the grassy grounds outside Mr. McNamara's Pentagon window to noisily, sometimes violently, protest "McNamara's war."
Here and there a few kind words have been voiced for the Defense Secretary in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. But not many words and not very often.
In particular, many veterans bitterly fault Mr. McNamara, publicly a hawks' hawk throughout his Pentagon days, for his most striking admission: that he knew as early as 1967 that involvement in the conflict was a catastrophic mistake but that he could not bring himself to say so until almost three decades later.
"It sure would have been helpful in May of 1967, when I volunteered for Vietnam, if he had said then that the war was unwinnable," Max Cleland, who lost both legs in Vietnam and afterward served as head of the Veterans Administration, said in an interview.
"The title of his book should be 'Sorry About That,' " added Mr. Cleland, a Democrat who is now Georgia's Secretary of State, dredging up an old "grunt" phrase of cynical resignation and frustration.
"McNamara went to the World Bank," Mr. Cleland concluded, "while a lot of other people went to their graves."
Similar criticism came from Senator John McCain of Arizona, a former Navy pilot who was tortured by the North Vietnamese while spending seven years in a Hanoi cell.
"I think it's about 25 years too late to save those Americans who would be alive if he hadn't pursued a policy that was doomed to failure," Mr. McCain said.
The Senator, a Republican and critic of United States policy in the war, spoke in a telephone interview from Hanoi. He was in Vietnam on a special mission to recover remains of dead Americans and to urge restoration of diplomatic relations between Washington and Hanoi.
"I can only assume," Mr. McCain said, "that McNamara's doing it now because he's trying to assume some place in history. What that place would be, I don't know, unless it would be as one of the architects of a policy that doomed more than 40,000 American young people and caused a division in our country. That's McNamara's legacy."
Martin Kaplan of Seattle, who was sent to Vietnam in 1969, is still angry about the war, and the McNamara book has only exacerbated that anger.
"I don't see McNamara's revelations doing any good for anyone," Mr. Kaplan said as he and several other veterans sat together on Wednesday night, watching the former Defense Secretary discuss his book on the television show "Prime Time Live." "There's a sense of betrayal. To him it was just all an intellectual exercise. And he was called one of the best and brightest?"
Most of the other veterans sitting with Mr. Kaplan also expressed anger about Mr. McNamara's revelation. But then, with some wiping away tears as the former Secretary spoke, himself in tears, they offered an unusual perspective, one that while it was not forgiving was nevertheless understanding.
 
 
A Veteran Dealing With Grief and Guilt
 "We're seeing another Vietnam veteran dealing with his grief and guilt," said Lee Raaen, a former Army draftee who was shipped to Vietnam in 1970 and now is a Seattle lawyer. "But I suppose I could say, from a historical standpoint, 'It's about time.' "
One of the few Government leaders from the Vietnam era to speak up in Mr. McNamara's defense was McGeorge Bundy, a national security adviser at the White House in both the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations.
"An excellent book, a very valuable one, a great contribution," Mr. Bundy
But should it have been written sooner?
"That's a funny ex post facto judgment," Mr. Bundy replied. "We are lucky to have the book now. It is understandable that it took this time to write the book. He was a very busy man 20 years ago."
Mr. McNamara, now 78 and retired from a lengthy stint as president of the World Bank, contends as he makes the rounds of talk shows and book signings that his book is not a work of redemption. Already in its second printing after an initial run of 80,000 copies, it is meant, he says, to make people think and debate so that history does not repeat itself.
That has done little to silence his critics. In fact, even some former close colleagues and policy makers in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations are speaking out about him.
 
 
Criticism Tinged With Disappointment
 Theirs is a more gentle criticism, much of it tinged with disappointment that Mr. McNamara somehow has abandoned the cause that was in good part his creation. But it is criticism nonetheless, scoring Mr. McNamara not only for his switch but also for saying now that American policy makers in the 1960's, himself included, overestimated the Communist threat in Asia and underestimated and misunderstood the Vietnamese people.
"He obviously has something to get off his chest," said Gen. William C. Westmoreland, the top United States commander in Saigon for much of the war, "but this is not the McNamara I did business with. None of this ever came up, never was indicated to me.
"Recall that we went into Vietnam promising we would bear any price, any burden to bolster the Vietnamese to self-sufficiency, and we almost did, until Congress cut us off.
"You can't turn your back on a promise like that. I think McNamara should be reminded of that."
Actually, American involvement in the war was ended during the Nixon Administration. By then Mr. McNamara was at the World Bank and General Westmoreland had left Saigon.
Former Nixon Administration officials have mostly remained silent on Mr. McNamara's comments.
 
 
Losing the Battle, Winning the War
 One of his war-era colleagues, Walt W. Rostow, President Lyndon B. Johnson's hawkish national security adviser, said in a telephone interview from Texas that he did not want to get into an argument with Mr. McNamara about the contents of the book but he then quoted a recent newspaper commentary he had written.
"We certainly lost the battle, the test of will, in Vietnam, but we won the war in Southeast Asia," Mr. Rostow argued in the commentary, taking direct issue with Mr. McNamara's conclusion about how the war ended.
Then, taking still further issue, the commentary concluded, "This was surely not simply a pointless, lost war. I am sure the families and the veterans have suffered from this narrow view of the war in Southeast Asia."
Some criticism of Mr. McNamara has come from editorialists, along with reporters and columnists who during the war were frequently at odds with American officials over how much progress was being made.
In the Los Angeles Times a few days ago, the cartoonist Paul Conrad portrayed the former Defense Secretary standing before the 58,000 names etched in the black marble of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington and saying, "Sorry About That."
And in their syndicated "Politics Today" column, published today, Jack Germond and Jules Witcover recall the "polarized and venomous" debate over the war that raged in the mid-1960's, then add:
"Officialdom equated pursuit of the war with loyalty and patriotism and criticism of it as disloyalty and even treason. The voice then of a key figure in the conduct of the war, questioning its core, would have been explosive and have given the protest a credibility it lacked with many Americans. Instead, McNamara's voice now sounds more like a whimper from a man who needed to get his mea culpa out of his system. It will offer little solace to the Americans who served and died in Vietnam and to the thousands more at home who were vilified for saying then what he has finally said now."
 
 
A Disciple of Peace Welcomes the Converted
 One who spoke up back then and immediately ran afoul of officialdom was David Harris, a freelance writer from San Francisco. In one of the more notable anti-war protests of the era, he pointedly returned his draft card to his local Selective Service Board, refused induction into the Army and was sentenced to three years in prison, serving 20 months before being released.
"I welcome the converted," Mr. Harris said of the McNamara book. "It's a little late and lot of people are dead or have been in prison or took off for Canada, but I say, 'welcome aboard' to the man, better late than never."
Still, Mr. McNamara's mea culpa is far from totally satisfactory to Mr. Harris.
"Despite it all, his understanding of what happened still seems shallow," he said. "You just don't drop the equivalent of 250 pounds of high explosives on every man, woman and child in Southeast Asia and kill close to 60,000 Americans and something like three million Vietnamese and then turn around, even 30 years too late, and be done with it all by saying, 'Oh, I'm sorry. We were terribly wrong.'
"It's too enormous and unforgivable for that. This is a start for him and America that I welcome. But it's only a start."
Stanley Karnow, who reported from Vietnam as a journalist and then went on to write one of the most definitive histories to date of the war, "Vietnam: A History," finds Mr. McNamara's treatment of war protesters in print, as opposed to his treatment of protesters as Pentagon chief, "a very, very interesting exercise."
"He writes movingly of them, almost sympathetically at times," Mr. Karnow said. "He's obviously a very tormented guy. An old protester like Bill Clinton will probably take some solace from his kind words.
"All that said, and giving McNamara full credit for finally getting out his story and his mea culpa, the cold fact is that admission is not an excuse. That won't bring back somebody's lost son."
 
 
And What of Those He Tried to Save
 And what of the Vietnamese, especially those from the South whom Mr. McNamara tried to save? What do they think of his book?
One refugee from Saigon, Tony Lam, who fled the South Vietnamese capital just before it fell in 1975 and eventually made it to Southern California, believes that Mr. McNamara is terribly wrong on one important change of mind.
Mr. Lam takes unyielding issue with the former Secretary's conclusion that the North Vietnamese leaders were primarily nationalists, not Communists. He said Mr. McNamara had it right back in the 1960's when he was arguing, passionately, that those leader were hard-line Communists.
Still, Mr. Lam, now a City Councilman in Westminster, Calif., has sympathy for Mr. McNamara and the torment that drove him, finally, to write his book, however it is being received.
"I praise his courage for admitting his mistakes," Mr. Lam said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stanley Karnow, left, reported from Vietnam as a journalist during the war (Catherine Karnow) and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, was a Navy pilot and a prisoner of war. (Associated Press); Robert McNamara wiping away tears yesterday in a "Prime Time Live" interview. (ABC News/Prime Time Live); Vietnam veterans watching the former Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, on television as he talks about the Vietnam War. (Therese Frare for The New York Times); "He obviously has something to get off his chest but this is not the McNamara I did business with," said Gen. William Westmoreland, the top United States commander in Saigon for much of the Vietnam War. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (90%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (90%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; PUBLIC OPINION; VETERANS VIETNAM WAR (90%); VETERANS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MCNAMARA, ROBERT S; AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; CLELAND, MAX; MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



334 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: U.N. COUNCIL VOTES TO EASE SANCTIONS AGAINST BAGHDAD

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 14

 BODY:
The Security Council voted unanimously today to offer Iraq easier terms under which to sell oil to meet its urgent need for medicine, food and other essentials.
If Iraq accepts the plan, it would be the first break in the wall of sanctions that has surrounded the country and constricted its economy since Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. 
 In 1991, the United Nations established a more restrictive plan to allow Iraq to resume limited oil exports to pay for emergency needs. But the Government of President Saddam Hussein rejected the deal as an infringement of Iraq's sovereignty, while maintaining that the Iraqis are suffering crippling hardships because of international sanctions.
Iraq's initial reaction to today's vote was negative but not dismissive. It was largely couched in an attack on the United States, a sponsor of the resolution along with Argentina, Britain, Oman and Rwanda.
"It is quite clear to the members of the Council that the United States did not intend in pushing this resolution to help alleviate the humanitarian hardships of Iraq," Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said in a written statement.
Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali met with Mr. Aziz after the vote and held out the prospect that the new offer would lead to a general lifting of sanctions.
"It is a first step toward the total lifting of the sanctions against Iraq," Mr. Boutros-Ghali said after the meeting. "It is a first step toward overcoming the crisis which exists between the international community and Iraq."
But Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate, avoided such a characterization.
"We believe we have found exactly the right compromise here," she said, "not a lifting of the sanctions on the Iraqi regime, but a humanitarian exception to the sanctions for the benefit of the Iraqi people."
If Baghdad refuses to accept this plan, Ms. Albright said, "it will only be because the Government of Iraq does not know how to take yes for an answer."
Under the plan, which is renewable, Iraq would be permitted to sell up to $2 billion in oil within 180 days, subject to certification every 90 days by the Secretary General, who must report to the Council on how the income is distributed.
Of that money, limited to $1 billion every 90 days, Iraq would have to earmark 30 percent to compensate the victims of its invasion of Kuwait. It would also have to pay the costs of United Nations monitors overseeing both the oil sales and Iraq's compliance with a resolution that demands the destruction or surveillance of major weapons systems.
In the first 90 days, Iraq would receive about $650 million because of the cost of readying the oil pipeline from Kirkuk to Yumurtalik, on Turkey's Mediterranean coast, through which most of the oil is to be exported. Iraq would then receive about $680 million in a 90-day period. The money would be placed in an escrow account and disbursed by the United Nations.
Iraq is also required by the resolution to set aside $150 million for Kurdish areas in northern Iraq, so its net proceeds would fall to $600 million or so every 90 days.
The new plan's provisions are less stringent than the 1991 version, in which the Security Council offered a one-time sale of $1.6 billion with more stringent monitoring.
The 15-to-0 vote today was a surprise to even the sponsors of the resolution, who thought there was a possibility of an abstention from Russia. Moscow wanted more time for the Iraqis to consider the proposal before it was enacted.
Weeks of effort to win some positive sign from the Iraqis apparently convinced all parties that the framers of the resolution had done what they could to give Baghdad a chance to approve the plan before it was put forth. United States officials and others felt that they were coming under increasing pressure from many nations to find a way to relieve the hardships of Iraqis.
The resolution now puts a plan on the table for Iraq to accept formally in negotiations with Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Criticism From Baghdad
 BAGHDAD, Iraq, Saturday, April 15 (Reuters) -- Iraq severely criticized the resolution on oil sales today, saying the terms violated its sovereignty.
A statement issued after a joint meeting of the Revolutionary Command Council and the ruling Baath party's regional command said the latest resolution was harsher than the one passed in 1991.
But it was not clear from the strongly worded statement whether Iraq had totally rejected the offer because, it said, Parliament and other institutions had to be consulted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir David Hannay of Britain and Madeleine K. Albright of the United States voting at a United Nations Security Council meeting yesterday that unanimously approved a plan to ease sanctions against Baghdad. The plan would allow Iraq to sell oil to pay for relief supplies for its people. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (75%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (69%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (75%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (69%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



335 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
OFFER TO EASE IRAQ SANCTIONS
The Security Council voted unanimously to offer Iraq easier terms under which to sell oil to meet its urgent need for medicine, food and other essentials. 1
 
RWANDA'S PRISON SQUALOR
A filthy, overflowing prison underscores the crisis facing Rwanda; a year after thousands died in massacres, the judicial system is still non-functioning. 1
 
BOSNIA ARMS SHIPMENTS IGNORED
The United States has chosen to ignore weapons shipments from Iran to the Bosnian Government that in the last year have added considerably to its firepower. 3
 
UNPLUGGABLE LEAK IN SANCTIONS
A senior official in the Italian Foreign Ministry said that Rome can do little to stop Italian oil companies from selling fuel to Albania, even if much of it is smuggled to Serbia. 3
 
PRECAUTIONS IN TOKYO
After a cult leader's prophecy that something horrible would happen in Tokyo on April 15, the police and residents took precautions against a possible terrorist attack. 5
 
DISAPPOINTMENT IN EL SALVADOR
More than two years after a peace agreement ended the civil war in El Salvador, a poverty-stricken village, like others, is seething with feelings of betrayal. 5
 
Holy Week in Spain: Seven days, seven nights of spectacle. 4
 
Fergana Journal: Life on a tightrope for God and money. 4
 
National 6-9, 25
 
LITTLE SYMPATHY FOR McNAMARA
The public reaction to Robert S. McNamara's regrets about the war that the United States waged in Vietnam has been almost relentlessly negative. 7
 
The young Bill Clinton is vindicated, the White House said. 7
 
CLINTON, GORE AND THEIR 1040'S
Their 1994 tax returns show that Vice President Al Gore earned a lot more than the President last year and was a lot less generous. 8
 
A SOLDIER'S ANNIVERSARY
Fifty years to the day after being badly wounded in combat, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas returned to his hometown to receive the blessing of family and old friends in his quest for the Presidency. 8
 
The New Yorker who rescued Lieut. Bob Dole.8
 
SIMPSON PROSECUTORS PRESS ON
Prosecutors in the Simpson trial continued their effort to rehabilitate a crucial witness, the police evidence collector Dennis Fung. 6
 
THE BIG EFFECTS OF A LITTLE MIX-UP
A small coal mine on a Navajo reservation has become the subject of a bureaucratic skirmish that could cripple the agency charged with overseeing strip mines. 6
 
TEXANS WIN ADOPTION FIGHT
A Texas couple whose battle to adopt two black children prompted a lawsuit over limits on interracial adoption will be given custody of the boys after all. 8
 
MORE WOES FOR MAYOR BARRY
Washington's Mayor has become embroiled in a Federal investigation of possible money laundering and in a fierce battle over pay cuts for municipal workers. 9
 
An earthquake in Texas caused more surprise than damage. 6
 
Beliefs: The bedrock stories of two faiths.25
 
Metro Digest 21
 
TIGHTENING RULES ON SHELTERS
The Pataki administration has proposed new regulations that would require local governments to evict the homeless from shelters if they do not follow a variety of rules, including participating in treatment and training programs. 1
 
TWO THEORIES ON TRADE CENTER
Prosecutors are trying to prove that Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman masterminded a plot to blow up the World Trade Center. They will also soon try to prove that Ramzi Ahmed Yousef masterminded the plot. Can both theories be right? 1
 
DEMAND DECLINES FOR SPECIALISTS
With the popularity of managed care, many young doctors are finding themselves unemployed, particularly in places like New York, where specialists are already in abundant supply. 1
 
Business Digest 31
 
Sports 26-30
 
WHO WILL SAY 'PLAY BALL'?
In baseball's other labor dispute, the owners and the umpires are still at odds, and both sides wonder whether players would cross an opening-day picket line. 1
 
Baseball: Green unhappy. 28
 
Dodgers pummel Perez. 28
 
Basketball: Knicks win. 27
 
Union head resigns. 27
 
Coleman calls it quits. 29
 
Columns: Araton on Knicks. 27
 
Football: Giants sign a safety. 29
 
Hockey: Rangers beat Bruins. 27
 
Devils defeat Islanders. 28
 
Yacht Racing: Young America defeats Mighty Mary. 29
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-17
 
Theater: "The Fall Guy." 11
 
Music: Slash's Sanakepit. 11
 
Perspectives Ensemble. 14
 
Spotlight on French horns. 15
 
Pamela Frank, violinist. 15
 
Kalichstein and Bronfman. 17
 
Recalling Sarah Vaughan. 11
 
Obituaries 9-10
 
Burl Ives, balladeer and actor. 10
 
Robert Wilson Crawford, built and expanded Philadelphia's parks. 10
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
 
Strong-arming the homeless.
 
Official secrets, officials' privacy.
 
Up in Central Park.
 
Legitimizing music theft.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Better not tried.
 
Bob Herbert: School bus strike? Go slow.
 
Mitchell L. Moss: Empty promises for Harlem.
 
Pamela S. Falk: Trapped in Cuba.
 
Chronicle 20
 
Bridge 16
 
Crossword 14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); RWANDA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (77%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); RWANDA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (77%); TEXAS, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PRISONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WITNESSES (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (72%); TERRORISM (71%); CULTS & SECTS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); RELIGION (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); EASTER SEASON (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); EVIDENCE (66%); FAMILY LAW (66%); SURFACE MINING (64%); ADOPTION (63%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (62%); EARTHQUAKES (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); RACE & RACISM (60%); COAL MINING (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



336 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan's Trade Surplus Shrinks (Except With U.S.)

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 14

 BODY:
With pressure mounting from Washington that Japan do more to narrow its trade surplus, the Japanese Government reported today that the overall surplus shrank in March and the latest fiscal year but that the imbalance with the United States widened in both periods.
As long as the yen remains strong, economists said, the overall surplus is not likely to decline significantly in coming months. 
 The Finance Ministry said Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus narrowed to $13.84 billion in March from $13.90 billion in March 1994 and to $117.98 billion in the fiscal year that ended on March 31 from a revised $121.88 billion in the prior fiscal year. The prior fiscal year's surplus was Japan's highest ever.
At the same time, the ministry said Japan's surplus with the United States widened to $5.08 billion in March from $4.94 billion in the month a year earlier and to $55.66 billion in the fiscal year from $51.12 billion in the previous fiscal year.
Japanese exports to the rest of the world rose 16.4 percent in March from a year earlier, to $42.53 billion, while imports to Japan increased 26.7 percent, to $28.69 billion. In the full fiscal year, exports rose 11.5 percent, to $408.47 billion, and imports increased 18.9 percent, to $290.49 billion.
In trade with the United States, Japanese exports rose 9.9 percent in March, to $11.75 billion, while imports grew 16 percent, to $6.66 billion. In the full year, Japanese exports to the United States increased 11.3 percent, to $120.10 billion, while imports from the United States grew 13.5 percent, to $64.44 billion.
Officials in Washington have pressed Japan for years to reduce its trade surplus. Earlier this week, Cabinet officers and other American officials who deal with trade matters approved a strategy under which the United States would warn Japan that it would move to impose several billion dollars in punitive tariffs unless major progress was made in opening Japanese markets to American autos and auto parts in the next three weeks.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin will meet with his Japanese counterpart, Masayoshi Takemura, in Indonesia over the weekend.
Economists said they did not expect any significant decline in Japan's surplus unless the yen began to weaken. They said the high yen would spur Japanese companies to move more production abroad, which would necessitate exports of costly manufacturing equipment. That will help cause Japan's overall exports to increase.
In theory, imports should be increased by the strong yen because it makes foreign goods less expensive in terms of the Japanese currency. But the economic slowdown will trim the potential rise, the economists said.
 And even though the strong Japanese currency means that Japanese companies receive fewer yen for every dollar of sales in the United States, shipments to the United States are likely to continue unabated because the exporters would rather absorb the cost from the strong currency than raise prices in that important market, said Iwaki Hidehiro, senior economist at the Nomura Research Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE COS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); INDONESIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



337 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Chief Due in U.S. Riding Boom

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, April 14

 BODY:
With exports and investment surging into Brazil from the United States, this nation's new President plans to open a campaign next week to shift Americans' attention from Mexico to his country.
"We have sustained a 5 percent economic growth rate for the last three years," said President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who arrives in New York on Monday on a five-day visit to the United States. "Mexico never had this." 
 The country's first English-speaking President in memory, Mr. Cardoso, 63, is fashioning a role as national salesman with the goal of attracting more investment and expanding Brazil's political influence.
In a speech on Tuesday at the United Nations, he is expected to argue that Brazil, with a population of 155 million, should win a permanent seat on an expanded Security Council.
In speeches to American business executives in New York, he is expected to outline expanding investment opportunities in Brazil, which has a market economy that is larger than Russia's. To encourage more Americans to come here, he plans to sign new legislation lengthening the visas issued to Americans from 90 days to five years.
United States exports to Brazil jumped by 35 percent last year, and Brazil has recently been the only major country to post monthly trade deficits with the United States. On the investor side, corporate interest in Latin America's largest economy has risen steadily, as reflected in rising membership in the American Chamber of Commerce in Sao Paulo.
"We have a flourishing economy," the President, a former sociology professor and politician from Sao Paulo, said in an interview last week in Brasilia, the capital. "Inflation has fallen to 1.5 percent a month."
This year Brazilian diplomats expect to wrap up negotiations for a South American free-trade zone intended largely to provide new markets for Sao Paulo's booming industries.
Brazil is also quietly expanding its role in regional politics, brokering cease-fires in the border fighting between Peru and Ecuador earlier this year, for example.
Next month it sends 1,100 peacekeeping troops to Angola, in its largest overseas military mission since Brazilians fought alongside Americans in Italy in World War II.
Although Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown visits the country regularly, the Clinton Administration's envoys to Brazil are generally low-level. By contrast, 10 British ministers have come here over the last year.
But several longstanding irritants in relations with the United States have eased in recent years. Brazil dismantled its secret nuclear bomb program in the early 1990's, and it renegotiated its huge debt to private foreign banks last year.
After 10 years of civilian government, tensions with the United States over military rule in Brazil have become a distant memory. On the first state visit accorded a Brazilian leader in decades, Mr. Cardoso will visit Washington as the leader of one of the world's largest democracies.
But the President, who has served as a Foreign Minister and Finance Minister, will need strong support at home to make good on some of his business pledges. While he is hoping to amend Brazil's Constitution to open the economy to foreign oil, telephone and mining companies, for instance, resistance in Congress is high.
Mr. Cardoso's five-party coalition technically constitutes a congressional majority, but he routinely loses vote after vote in Congress. Since he took office, lawmakers have voted a 12 percent cap on interest rates, approved a $3 billion bailout for large farmers and buried a bill intended to restructure Brazil's largely bankrupt social security system.
Mindful of Mexico's recent economic collapse, some economists fear that lack of congressional support could endanger Mr. Cardoso's anti-inflation plan.
Still, Mr. Cardoso takes comfort in recent public opinion polls, which give him approval ratings ranging from 40 percent to 64 percent.
"Brazil is going to change, and the minority that I defeated at the polling booths is not going to block the change," he told a crowd of peasants in a speech last month.
Known as a patient man who values the art of negotiation, Brazil's President seems unfazed by complaints of a slow start to his four-year term, which began on Jan. 1.
"You have to set a goal, and then build your road to get there," he said. "You lose today. You win tomorrow. You have to have perseverance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fernando Henrique Cardoso in his office in the capital. (John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (63%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PERU (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) H BROWN LTD (63%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PERU (79%); ECUADOR (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BRAZIL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EXPORT TRADE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); LEGISLATION (52%); 

PERSON: CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES); BROOKE, JAMES HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



338 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Embargo Against Belgrade Has a Major Leak

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: ROME, April 13

 BODY:
In spite of appeals from the United States, a senior official in the Italian Foreign Ministry says Rome can do little to stop Italian oil companies from selling fuel to Albania, though most of the fuel is apparently being smuggled to Serbia in violation of a United Nations embargo.
The official said it was up to Albania to control the diversion. 
 Italy allows tankers to sail only after Albania has verified that the shipments are for domestic consumption, said the official, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified. But American officials say that verification system, put in place a few months ago to deal with the sanctions violations, has already broken down.
They add that at the current rate, the amount of fuel reaching Albania this year will be twice as much as last year, with at least half being smuggled to Serbia.
The matter has caused considerable diplomatic consternation.
Washington is especially alarmed by violations of the sanctions because the fuel eventually reaches the Serbian military. The sanctions were first imposed by the Security Council in 1992 to force Serbia to cooperate in finding an end to the war between Muslims and Serbs in Bosnia.
Italy and Greece are major suppliers of gasoline and diesel fuel to Albania. One Italian company, Anonima Petroli Italiana, accounts for 90 percent of fuel exports from Italy to Albania, the Foreign Ministry official said.
Marcello Senepa, who is president of API's Albanian subsidiary, said, "We have no comment," when asked about the issue. API is one of the larger oil companies in Italy that is not owned by the Government.
"I am very, very angry about these questions -- the problem is not serious," he said before abruptly hanging up.
In the first nine months last year, about 40 percent of Albania's diesel and gasoline imports came from Italian companies, including some five million gallons of diesel, according to the European Union's sanctions office in Brussels. Greek oil companies supplied most of the rest.
Albania has seen a rapid increase in its domestic fuel consumption since emerging from decades of economic backwardness under Communism. But the climb in fuel imports has been much greater than the Albanian economy requires to meet its own needs, Western officials say.
While it is legal to sell fuel to Albania, Western diplomats and sanctions monitors there say that the oil companies most likely know where the fuel is ending up, given the small size of the Albanian market and the openness of the smuggling.
To help stop the diversion, the United States has asked Italy to limit fuel sales to Albania. But the Foreign Ministry official said Italy could do little because the trade was legal.
American officials are sympathetic; they agree that the primary responsibility for cracking down on the smuggling belongs with Albania, and that if Italy stopped selling to Albania, other countries, notably Greece, would seize the market.
Nevertheless, Washington wishes Italy would do more, like calling in API officials for a stern lecture, as President Clinton recently did with officials of the American oil company Conoco to try to persuade them not to go ahead with an energy-development deal with Iran.
"It's part of the American way of thinking -- 'Where there's a will, there's a way,' " one American official said. "We'll never see eye to eye on this."
The Italian ministry official said limiting the flow of fuel to Albania was the responsibility of the sanctions committee of the United Nations, and some American diplomats in Europe agreed. "We cannot act unilaterally," the Italian said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); ITALY (94%); GREECE (90%); EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ANONIMA PETROLI ITALIANA SPA API (55%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; ITALY; ALBANIA; SERBIA; ALBANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); ITALY (94%); GREECE (90%); EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGIUM (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SMUGGLING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GASOLINE (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DIESEL FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CONSUMPTION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); MARKET SIZE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



339 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Conflicting Orders on Mine Cleanup Sow Anger

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER 

DATELINE: BURNHAM, N.M.

 BODY:
A small coal mine set in a treeless expanse of grass and sand on the Navajo reservation in northwestern New Mexico has become the subject of a bureaucratic skirmish that could affect the very survival of the Federal agency charged with overseeing strip mines.
The dispute began, all the parties agree, with a simple act of Government inconsistency: Two regional branches of the Interior Department's Office of Surface Mining gave a big coal company conflicting directions for cleaning up its 135-acre mine here. The case, which has become widely known in the West, has been used by the agency's critics in the House of Representatives to help justify legislation that would cut the agency's work force in half and eliminate its inspection and enforcement program. 
 The Consolidation Coal Company, which permanently closed its Burnham mine in 1990, applied that year to the Office of Surface Mining for a permit to clean up the site as required by Federal law. Its request, filed with the agency's Denver office, languished for four years.
Then last summer, the company's officials say, the agency's office in Albuquerque, N.M., unexpectedly sent them a notice saying Consolidation Coal had violated Federal law by failing to clean up the site and ordering work to begin immediately.
The Albuquerque office prodded the Denver office to propose a fine of nearly $200,000 for each of Consolidation Coal's 18 corporate directors. These would have been the largest penalties ever levied against corporate mining officers in the West.
The Interior Department eventually suspended the fines, on the condition that the company clean up the mine, but by that time the incident had outraged the agency's critics and created sympathy for one of the nation's largest coal companies.
"No matter what we did, we were caught in the middle," said Thomas F. Hoffman, the chief spokesman for Consolidation Coal. "We ended up in a situation where one Government group wanted us to move, and another said stand still."
The director of the Office of Surface Mining, Robert Uram, was sympathetic once the misunderstanding became clear.
"What happened there was a perfect justification for reorganization" of his agency, said Mr. Uram, who described the office as "in chaos" when he took it over a year ago.
Soon after taking command as the Clinton Administration's Interior Secretary, Bruce Babbitt vowed to support tough enforcement of the Federal strip-mining law and make the agency "the best regulatory organization" in Washington.
But the new Republican House, emboldened by accounts of the Burnham mine mix-up and other stories, has its own plans. Under a proposal being considered by the House Budget Committee, the $46.7 million budget of the Office of Surface Mining's regulatory and inspection program would be cut by $30 million, a reduction that would mean that at least 500 of the agency's 986 employees would lose their jobs.
The agency's total budget is $293 million, but most of that money flows though the agency to the states for their own regulatory programs and to private contractors for restoring abandoned mines. The House's proposed cut in those programs is less than $6 million.
Mr. Uram said that if Congress approved the new budget, "it would be a signal to wildcatters and outlaws in the coal fields to open illegal mines."
The Office of Surface Mining was established as part of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act in 1977. From the start, it was battered by the coal industry and its powerful Congressional supporters from Appalachia and the West.
The act requires mining companies to treat water and soil contamination by reclaiming the millions of acres torn up at the roughly 4,000 working strip mines, the largest of which are in the West. It also established a fund, paid for by the coal industry, to clean up some 20,000 abandoned strip mines.
Attacks on the agency are coming from state governments as well as Congress.
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, a Republican, and Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, a Democrat, have complained in recent months about interference by Federal coal-mine inspectors.
In one case involving a strip mine in Colorado, Federal inspectors found fault with a decision last year by the state to approve the Kerr Coal Company's cleanup of a 1,000-acre mine. The Federal team accused Kerr of violating the law by not filling in the huge gap it had cut out of a ridge.
"Whether or not a particular case satisfies the Federal Government, the issue the states are raising is that they have the authority to be the primary enforcer of the strip-mining law," said Douglas Larson, executive director of the Western Interstate Energy Board, a group based in Denver that represents state agencies overseeing mine cleanups in Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming.
"Generally, it's agreed among states that a downsizing of the agency is appropriate." Mr. Larson said.
Indian leaders are no more satisfied, though many worry about too lax Federal oversight, rather than too vigorous.
The Navajo nation, which spans much of northern Arizona and some of northwestern New Mexico, is at the center of an immense coal-based energy colony. Roughly 30 million tons of coal, three-quarters of it mined on Navajo land, are stripped from the earth and used to power seven Southwestern electrical plants that generate 2 percent of the nation's electricity.
The Navajo nation says it gains nearly $50 million in royalty income a year from four working mines on its reservation. Some 3,100 people, many of them Navajos, work in the mines as well as two of the power plants that are on Navajo land.
Despite this economic clout, Navajo leaders, including the tribe's president, Albert Hale, worry about the environmental damage and say the Federal Government is not an effective steward.
"The operation of the Office of Surface Mining as an agency of the Interior Department presents a classic example of conflict of interest," said Mr. Hale, a lawyer who was elected in November.
"On the one hand," he said, "the Interior Department has a trust responsibility to obtain maximum returns from the extraction of coal to meet its obligations. On the other hand, it is regulating the land from which the coal is extracted."
"We are a sovereign nation, and we are capable of regulating," Mr. Hale continued. "There is great damage being done, and we are in a better position to oversee the industry."
But Federal mine inspectors, who refused to speak for attribution, said that they doubted that the tribe had the fortitude to enforce the law and that the Government was doing an adequate job.
The mine at Burnham was opened in the late 1970's to turn coal into natural gas and was closed in 1984. Though the Federal law requires "contemporaneous" reclamation, meaning that as coal is stripped, earth should be placed back in the mining pit, the site sat untouched for 10 years.
Only after the Citizens Coal Council, an environmental group, filed a complaint last May with the Albuquerque office did the Federal agency act.
But the settlement that the company and the Government finally negotiated, giving Consolidation Coal 18 months to complete the work and providing waivers for exceeding the deadline, was challenged as too generous by the Coal Council, which filed a court action last month to stop it.
"This mine should never have been allowed to be opened where it was," said Ernest Diswood, a Navajo environmental specialist, pointing to nearby Navajo homes and grave sites. "And it's been 11 years of struggle to get it cleaned up. Was this what the law was supposed to do?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernest Diswood, a Navajo environmental specialist, right, with Ray Benally at an ash-disposal site near Farmington, N.M. (Michael Heller for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Mexico showing location of the site of Consolidation Coal Company's abandoned mine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT ; CONSOLIDATED COAL COMPANY; OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING (US) CONSOLIDATION COAL CO (84%); OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT ; CONSOLIDATED COAL COMPANY; OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING (US) OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COAL; MINES AND MINING; NAVAJO INDIANS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; STRIP MINING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ; FINES (PENALTIES); ROYALTIES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE COAL INDUSTRY (92%); COAL MINING (92%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (90%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (90%); BUDGETS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); DEREGULATION (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); LABOR FORCE (69%); CLOSINGS (68%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH ; URAM, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



340 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Borrowing, With Its Fat Fees, Lures Wall Street

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 14

 BODY:
This city's compact financial district, overlooking Lake Ontario, bisected by lower Bay Street and occupying less than a square mile of real estate, so resembles its counterpart in lower Manhattan that movie companies looking for a Wall Street location often shoot here.
While film makers are attracted by the striking resemblance and a cheaper Canadian dollar, Wall Street's investment powerhouses in recent months have been lured to Bay Street by the fat underwriting commissions from one of the world's largest borrowing countries. 
 In the biggest American drive for Canadian financial business since the market was deregulated in the mid-1980's, Salomon Brothers; Goldman, Sachs & Company; Smith Barney, a unit of Travelers; Morgan Stanley Group, and Lehman Brothers are expanding their operations on Bay Street.
The American incursion has come even as the huge Canadian debt -- about $550 billion (Canadian), or nearly $400 billion (United States) -- has raised concerns over the country's credit rating. Moody's Investors Service on Wednesday downgraded Canada's triple-A status for Canadian dollar-denominated debt to double-A-1. But the move had been widely anticipated and had little market impact. The Canadian dollar actually rose both Wednesday and Thursday. As one trader put it, "The news cleared away the uncertainties." Markets have long known, he added, that Canada's risk was higher than the country's credit rating. Perceived weakness in the Quebec separatist movement has been a major force behind the strengthening Canadian dollar.
Besides helping sell government debt, the American houses work in an advisory capacity for many American and Canadian companies, helping with mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance and other matters. The American firms are benefiting from the increased North American business spurred by freer trade, especially after last year's North American Free Trade Agreement. And they share the general belief that despite some recent Government budget tightening future capital needs will continue to be enormous.
The outstanding federal and provincial debt is roughly the same as Canada's gross domestic product, or the value of all goods and services produced last year. As a percentage of G.D.P., only Italy's is higher among the leading industrial countries.
According to a tabulation by Euromoney magazine of London, eight Canadian provinces, topped by Ontario, led the pack of worldwide provincial, state and municipal borrowers for the year ended June 30, 1994. In fact, Ontario, with $7.5 billion of loans, ranked fourth after the European Investment Bank, Sweden and Italy.
The debt volumes exceed the capacity of the Canadian capital market. Nearly half of all Canadian debt is held by foreigners, chiefly pension funds in the United States.
"What makes this market compelling are its tremendous requirements for debt and equity capital, its growth at a relatively more rapid rate than other capital markets and the global market integration that's now under way," said Jamie Kiernan, president of Goldman, Sachs Canada Ltd.
Goldman, Sachs and the other houses are driven by strong competitive forces. David Driscoll, editor of The Investment Reporter, a weekly Toronto investment newsletter, says it is the case of no one wanting to be left behind. He speaks of a "lemming effect -- if there's money to be made, everyone follows."
An added incentive now is indications that Canadian authorities look more favorably upon investment houses with Canadian-based operations.
"It's no doubt much more difficult to distribute Canadian dollar bonds if there's no presence in the Canadian market," said John Madden, chief executive officer of the Ontario Financing Authority and the province's assistant deputy minister of finance.
The Canadian financial institutions are watching with keen interest. Many decline to comment for the record. An executive at one of the big Canadian national banks, who asked not to be identified, observed, "This is bound to get pretty cutthroat."
Yet some Canadians say they are looking forward to the competition. "The more players, the better," said Greg Clarke, vice president of the Investment Dealers Association of Canada. "We like to see knowledgeable, well-capitalized players in our marketplace because it breeds innovation and makes better markets."
John Ing, president of Maison Placements Canada Inc., an investment boutique dealing exclusively with institutions, said, "We welcome them, but so far we haven't seen much of them, since they're mainly going after the fixed-income side," or bond business.
A number of the American investment houses are simply building on a presence here dating from the so-called Big Bang of 1987, when the regulatory walls came down, eliminating the kind of restrictions that had forced Canadian financial institutions to provide circumscribed services and that had prohibited most foreign dealers from competing in Canada.
Goldman, Sachs came up then to set up full-scale bond trading and investment banking operations. Now Goldman, with 60 employees -- the second-biggest contingent after Merrill Lynch -- is building an equity trading and underwriting operation for Canadian institutional clients.
Merrill Lynch Canada, which set up shop here in 1952 and which employs 180 for its bond trading and investment banking operation, used to be much larger. In earlier years it had gone into the retail stock brokerage business and had as many as 1,600 employees. But profits were disappointing, especially after the 1987 market crash, and in 1990 it sold its brokerage business to CIBC Wood Gundy Inc., a subsidiary of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
Despite the stepped-up activities of Merrill Lynch's competitors, Paul Thomas -- president of Merrill Lynch Canada and an alumnus of Goldman, Sachs -- said: "We're fairly comfortable. There's always room to improve, but we feel we cover the country fairly well." Expansion, he added, is "always under review."
Both Salomon and Morgan Stanley established corporate finance advisory services here in 1987. They intended to follow Goldman, Sachs with more ambitious bond trading and investment banking operations but got cold feet after the market crash that year. Now both are moving ahead full speed.
Salomon opened a bond trading floor in December; it has 4 salesmen and 4 traders and expects to have 15 on the payroll within a year. Morgan Stanley is tripling the size of its Toronto office staff, from 15 to 50.
Smith Barney has just moved into the corporate services business in Toronto. Andre Hidi, now chief executive of Smith Barney Canada, had run these activities for Morgan Stanley.
Last month, Lehman announced it was opening a broker-dealer office here that would have 15 professionals. It will focus on corporate finance, trading a broad range of bonds.
European and Asian financial houses are also raising the ante. The Hongkong Bank of Canada, part of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Group of HSBC Holdings, has expanded its stake -- from 50 to 75 percent -- in the Bay Street securities firm of BBN James Capel. Another international giant, the Deutsche Bank of Frankfurt, is increasing investment banking and bond trading activity at McLean McCarthy Inc., a financial boutique it acquired in 1987.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wall Street firms have flocked to Bay Street, Toronto's financial district, which resembles its Manhattan counterpart. (Robert Skeoch for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ITALY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; SMITH BARNEY INC; MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC; LEHMAN BROTHERS INC GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON BROTHERS; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; SMITH BARNEY INC; MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC; LEHMAN BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ITALY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); MERGERS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (63%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



341 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Plan To Help Dollar Doesn't Impress Tokyo Markets

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 14

 BODY:
Japan's emergency plan to stem the fall of the dollar against the yen and to stimulate the nation's economy failed to impress the financial markets today, raising fears here that the dollar's fall could resume next week.
Critics said the measures, announced today, were vague and lacked teeth. "I'm a little bit shocked at seeing today's package," said Masaru Takagi, chief economist of the Fuji Research Institute, associated with the Fuji Bank. "There are no concrete figures yet, no concrete features at all." 
 Currency markets seemed to shrug off the announcement, with exchange rates barely budging. In late trading in Tokyo, the dollar was quoted at 83.58 yen, up only slightly from 83.50 yen in late New York trading Thursday. Trading was kept thin by the Good Friday holiday, which closed other major financial centers.
Stock investors gave an even harsher reception. After having climbed for four consecutive days, partly in anticipation of today's package, the Tokyo stock market fell sharply today. The Nikkei average of 225 stocks dropped 390.90 points, or 2.4 percent, to 16,047.89.
The emergency plan was announced today in response to Monday's sharp drop of the dollar to a postwar record low of 80.15 yen here. The weak dollar and strong yen are threatening to derail an economic recovery that has just begun in Japan by choking off Japan's exports.
In perhaps the most significant of today's measures, the Bank of Japan cut the official discount rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, to a record low for Japan of 1 percent. While businessmen called this a welcome move, if somewhat late, the currency markets had already been expecting such a cut.
Other parts of the plan called for increasing public works spending, spurring imports and accelerating the deregulation of the economy. The Government, in effect, was trying to convince the currency markets that it was serious about lowering Japan's trade surplus, which is considered a major factor behind the long-term rise of the yen.
It failed to convince. Today's measures, as in many past trade plans, consisted largely of statements of intent rather than concrete actions.
The Government did say it would be willing to use deficit financing to stimulate the economy, something that the Finance Ministry has long resisted. But there were no figures yet on how much public spending would be increased.
In the auto area, currently the focus of tense negotiations between the United States and Japan, the plan calls only for Japan to build some "permanent exhibition places" to display foreign cars and automobile parts.
Much of the plan was directed not at influencing the currency rates but at helping Japan cope with the stronger yen.
The discount rate cut, for instance, could help spur economic activity. But today's was the eighth cut in the rate since 1991, when Japan's economy started to go into a downturn. In that span the rate has been cut by 5 percent, yet the economy still remains weak.
Bureaucrats deleted from the plan some stronger proposals, such as one to set a numerical target for cutting the trade surplus in half in five years. A proposal to cut the tax on securities transactions in an effort to help revive the stock market will be studied. 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Dollar Little Changed
 By Bloomberg Business News
 The dollar was little changed against the yen yesterday as currency dealers were skeptical that Japan's new economic package would be effective in curbing the strength of the yen.
Trading was very light yesterday. United States markets were closed for Good Friday, and many dealers stayed home for the Easter and Passover weekend. In London and Frankfurt, two large centers for currency trading, markets and banks were closed yesterday and will not reopen until Tuesday.
In New York late yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 83.30 yen, down from 83.50 yen on Thursday, and at 1.3915 German marks, up from 1.3864 marks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BONDS (69%); EASTER SEASON (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



342 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Is a Trans-Atlantic Pact Coming Down the Pike?

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 14

 BODY:
An idea that seems self-evident economically, but almost impossible politically, has recently caught the attention of politicians, trade experts and business executives in Europe and North America -- a trans-Atlantic free-trade agreement.
Yes, it has been considered before and put aside. Yes, it would take years to negotiate. Yes, it might have to exclude agricultural subsidies. 
 And while no government has so far adopted such a free-trade zone as a goal, the decibel level of conversation is rising dramatically.
"There's hardly a high-level meeting on trade where the issue does not come up," said Stuart E. Eizenstat, the American Ambassador to the European Union in Brussels. "This is just in the earliest stages of getting on the Administration's radar screen."
Currently, the roster of politicians, trade officials or executives embracing the idea of an Atlantic free-trade zone, or something like it, includes Jean Chretien, Prime Minister of Canada; Jacques Santer, president of the European Commission; Edzard Reuter, chief executive of Daimler-Benz A. G.; Lane Kirkland, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Alain Juppe, Foreign Minister of France.
American officials said President Clinton had discussed the idea with Prime Minister John Major of Britain earlier this month, but the officials would not elaborate.
In the eyes of its proponents, a United States-Europe free-trade agreement would go far beyond the reduced tariff barriers negotiated under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to include elimination of tariffs and quotas on all services, on new telecommunications products and on government procurement policies. It might also harmonize taxation of corporations.
On the European side, support for such a trade agreement grows out of two areas of concern.
One is that without the binding force of a common Communist enemy, the European-American partnership has been weakened and is more and more vexed by a series of small trade disputes that almost inevitably turn into bitter squabbles.
Officials here point to the recent dispute over who would head the World Trade Organization, pitting an American candidate against a European one. Or a growing friction over subsidies of European and American airline manufacturers. Or recent charges by France that Washington engaged in economic espionage. Or European import restrictions on Latin American bananas.
"With every passing day I feel reconfirmed in my view that differing economic interests could quite conceivably undermine the old solidarity existing between us," said Mr. Reuter of Daimler-Benz.
Europe is also afraid that it will be isolated by free-trade pacts that Washington is trying to form with Latin American and Asian countries. While Europe had announced its own free-trade deals with East European and Mediterranean countries, its overall market would be dwarfed by that of the Americas and the Pacific Basin.
"It is rather odd for the E.U. to have concluded free-trade arrangements with a host of countries but not have something of the kind with the United States," said Andreas van Agt, the European Union's former ambassador to the United States.
Jeffrey E. Garten, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, and one of the Clinton Administration officials who is quietly pushing the idea of a union, argues that economics and social factors argue strongly in favor of such an agreement.
"Europe is and will continue to be for years the most important and biggest market for Americans," he said.
For example, United States trade and sales of American corporations based in Europe totaled $1.7 trillion in 1992, Mr. Garten said. That is 55 percent larger than the total commerce with Asia in the same year -- $1.1 trillion.
Moreover, in Asia the United States has accumulated a deficit of more than $1 trillion over the last 25 years; American trade with Europe in that time "has been almost perfectly in balance," Mr. Garten said.
And because the European Union is such a huge trade market -- $7 trillion a year in economic output -- modest growth of, say, 3 percent, generates a stunning $210 billion in economic activity that is a potential market for American goods.
"This is like finding a new market the size of Taiwan's every year," Mr. Garten said.
Spurring on Washington is the fact that Mexico is quietly trying to negotiate its own free-trade accord with Europe, and that Europe is seeking to establish free-trade ties with the countries of the Mercosur trade pact -- Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay -- as well as with Chile and Bolivia.
But whatever the arguments in favor of a broad agreement, officials say it may be long in coming.
One big obstacle is the issue of agricultural subsidies and barriers, which almost scuttled a GATT accord last year and could doom any free-trade accord.
Another is that officials want to get the World Trade Organization off the ground and see how it operates before taking up complex new negotiations. Mats Hellstrom, Sweden's Minister of Foreign Trade, said such negotiations should be expanded beyond a European-North American free-trade agreement, to include all GATT members.
Third, next year the European Union faces what is called its Intergovernmental Conference, a kind of constitutional convention, where the principles of the union will be examined and possibly changed.
Finally, American and European trade negotiators are suffering from a kind of diplomatic exhaustion from the negotiations over the GATT, and more recently the bitter dispute over who would head the W.T.O.
But those discussing the issue of a new trade pact say it is not about to go away.
"There is no question in my mind that 10 years from now our trade relationship with the E.U. will be more liberalized than it is today," Mr. Eizenstat said. "But doing a full-blown free-trade agreement sooner will be difficult."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "In and Out of Balance" shows United States merchandise trade balance with European Union and Japan from '78-'94. (Sources: National Trade Data Bank; Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (82%); DAI (BIT) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION DAIMLER AG (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AFL-CIO (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AFL-CIO (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C BILL CLINTON (58%); JEAN CHRETIEN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



343 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Drops For First Time in Six Months

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
The Government today reported the first drop in industrial production in six months, providing further evidence of an economic slowdown.
The Federal Reserve said that industrial output fell in March by three-tenths of 1 percent, only the second decline in nearly two years and the first drop since September, when the figure reflected an auto industry strike. 
 The central bank also revised figures for January and February to reflect that the cumulative gain in output for the two months was three-tenths of 1 percent less than previously estimated.
And another closely watched Federal Reserve index showed that the nation's factories, mines and utilities were operating with more slack in March for the second consecutive month. It was the first back-to-back decline for the operating rate in nearly two years.
Even though the production decline was led by a sharp drop for utilities because of unusually mild weather, analysts said the signs of a broad-based slowdown were unmistakable.
"All of the pieces are falling into place to strengthen the case for a soft landing," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation, a Minneapolis banking company. "We have really a nice situation where an economic slowdown is occurring with limited inflation."
There is practically no chance the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again anytime soon, he said, adding the next move could be a rate cut to stimulate growth.
"Fed watching is going to be pretty boring for awhile," Mr. Sohn said.
Traders and analysts will have a long weekend to absorb the data; financial markets in the United States were closed today for Good Friday.
The Federal Reserve said the industrial operating rate fell five-tenths of 1 percent, following a dip of two-tenths of 1 percent in February that had earlier been estimated to be an increase of two-tenths of a point.
Still, the central bank said the consecutive declines left the operating rate at 84.9 percent of capacity -- equaling a peak achieved during a recovery in 1988 and 1989.
In another report that could lead to slower economic activity, the Commerce Department said business inventories rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in February, the 11th consecutive gain, and jumped a revised 1.3 percent the previous month. The January gain matched the biggest buildup of stocks on store shelves and factory back lots in more than a decade.
Analysts said the big increases might foretell a cut in production if consumer spending continued to ease.
The economy expanded at a robust 5.1 percent annual rate in the final quarter of last year. Economists expected it slowed to around 3 percent in the first three months of 1995 and predict an even smaller gain in the current quarter.
The slowdown was by design, as the Fed raised interest rates seven times in a 12-month period that ended Feb. 1 to keep inflation under control.
The Fed had worried that rising industrial output and dwindling unused capacity would lead to bottlenecks and rising prices.
Much of the drop-off in production last month occurred at utilities, where output plunged 2.6 percent and reversed a similar-sized jump in February.
Manufacturing output in March slipped one-tenth of 1 percent, matching the drop the previous month.
Production of big-ticket durable goods for consumers fell 1.9 percent last month, led by a drop in light trucks and further weakness in production of household furniture and appliances.
Production at mines fell half a percent in March after rising the same amount in February.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Industrial Production" shows index of total industrial production from Oct. '93-March '95 (Source: Commerce Department); "Capacity Utilization" shows total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted from Oct. '93-March '95. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EASTER SEASON (72%); WEATHER (68%); 

PERSON: SUNG WON SOHN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



344 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Young Doctors Find Specialist Jobs Hard to Get

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Five years ago, Dr. Jonathan Boniuk would have been guaranteed overnight success. An eye surgeon trained at top medical schools, he would have walked into a busy practice and earned over $150,000 a year.
But in the last month he has talked to friends, colleagues, friends of friends, recruiters, health maintenance organizations and drug company representatives who make the rounds of doctors' offices, all with the dwindling hope of finding a permanent job. He has had little success. 
 "I'll get by," he said recently, in words that have become newly familiar to doctors. "Maybe I won't work for a few months. Or I could work in an optical shop doing refractions a few days a week. I could live off that and I'd still be helping people."
A small but rapidly growing group of young doctors find themselves un- or underemployed, stranded in their profession's equivalent of flipping burgers or pumping gas.
Managed care has strikingly decreased the demand for specialists like Dr. Boniuk, particularly in places like New York, where specialists are already in abundant supply. So when Dr. Boniuk finishes his residency at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine-Montefiore Medical Center in June, after eight years of training, he is resigned to a temporary job or even a period of unemployment.
H.M.O.'s, which tightly restrict the use of specialists' skills, have become newly powerful in many parts of the country, leading to a sharp decrease in demand for the highly trained doctors. At the same time, training programs have for the most part kept churning them out, despite widespread agreement that there are too many specialists in the United States.
"In some specialties we could probably turn off the spigot for 10 years and still have plenty," said Dr. David R. Dantzker, president of Long Island Jewish Medical Center. "The pity is there are a number of people involved in years of specialty training who are not going to use it, who aren't going to have a job or at least aren't going to practice their subspecialty." H.M.O.'s decrease specialist business by prohibiting patients from visiting specialists without a referral from a general doctor, as well as scrutinizing the need for each specialty procedure that occurs. They also severely limit the number of specialists they use.
Health experts say the problems of highly trained doctors in the New York area are likely to get worse, as more New Yorkers enroll in H.M.O.'s or other forms of managed care. About 25 percent of people in New York State are in H.M.O.'s, and 20 percent in New York City. In Northern California, where over 40 percent belong to H.M.O.'s, some medical groups have begun dismissing specialists en masse.
In response, several academic hospitals in New York are considering scaling back specialty training programs, but these efforts, many undertaken reluctantly, may be outstripped by the medical students who are turning away in droves from once popular specialties.
In 1995, there was a remarkable upswing in the number of medical students seeking training in primary care fields like family practice, internal medicine and pediatrics, and a decline in previously popular specialties like radiology and anesthesiology, according to the American Association of Medical Colleges.
"A number of factors have contributed to the change, but I think what we're seeing is the market at work," said William Jacott, a member of the American Medical Association Board of Trustees and a family physician.
It has been a devastating experience for many young specialists who have spent a decade in training and ended up tens of thousands of dollars in debt to enter a chosen field.
"It's frustrating to come this far and go through all this training to find the jobs are not there," said Dr. Jill Kavaler, an anesthesiology resident at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. "One of the reasons people go into medicine is job security. We always thought there'd be a job. Now we're not sure."
Dr. Kavaler mailed 60 letters to hospitals in the New York area and received rejection after rejection, until she was finally offered a job at Mount Sinai at a salary 20 percent below what it would have been a few years ago.
The job crisis is most troublesome among doctors who usually work directly for hospitals, like anesthesiologists and radiologists, and surgical subspecialists like ophthalmologists and neurosurgeons. Large urban and suburban areas are particularly tight, where specialists traditionally have concentrated. Doctors in fields like cardiology and pulmonary medicine have been somewhat spared because they complete general internal medicine training before specializing, and so can practice general medicine if there is no demand for their specialty.
Most H.M.O.'s estimate that they need half of their doctors to be specialists and half to be involved in primary care. But in many urban areas, 70 percent of doctors specialize.
Newly minted specialists have coped in a variety of ways, depending on their specialty and goals.
Those entering the market are taking jobs their peers might have disdained a few years ago, in a distant city, with lower salaries or without long-term commitments from employers. Traditionally, a doctor joining a practice is salaried for a couple of years and then becomes a partner, with guaranteed employment and a share of profits.
"Now nobody's promising anything," Dr. Kavaler said. "In fact, they're saying: 'There's no possibility of partnership here.' "
Specialists in some fields have the option of practicing primary care. Dr. Seymour I. Huberfeld, who trained for three years in pulmonary medicine at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, is taking a job in which he expects to do more general medicine than specialty care, although he said he hoped the balance would shift over time. "If I were starting out now I would not have become a specialist," Dr. Huberfeld said.
Some young doctors, facing a glutted market, are choosing paradoxically to sign on for more training to become even more specialized. They are gambling that their added skills will make them more marketable when looking for work. Added training also postpones the painful job search.
"Ironically, when the idea is to have more people go into general practice, the pressure we feel around here is to become more specialized," said Paul M. Tesser, an ophthalmology resident at Albert Einstein who is doing a fellowship in glaucoma surgery.
He said that some young ophthalmologists were taking courses to learn a controversial type of elective surgery intended as an alternative to the wearing of glasses. Like cosmetic surgery, it is not paid for by medical insurance, and so it will not be affected by the growth of H.M.O.'s.
Health policy analysts have suggested that, with reduced demand for their services, specialists might have to consider retraining in primary care. Most young specialists bristle at the suggestion.
"Retraining is not a real option for most young specialists who are coming out in heavy debt," said Rob T. Stallings, director of corporate services at Jackson & Coker, a physician placement service based in Atlanta. "You can't tell them just retrain, even though that's what you are thinking would be best for them."
Mr. Stallings said that he frequently recommends that young doctors in particularly tight specialties like anesthesiology take on temporary work, filling in for vacationing doctors, or short-term work at a hospital, as at a resort area in the summer. "If they're looking for a permanent job, we try to steer them to temporary work so they can keep up their skills and make some money," he said.
Many young specialists who would have slipped into a full-time job with tremendous security just a few years ago are now instead piecing together a salary by working a few days here and a few days there.
Dr. Boniuk said that if he didn't find a good full-time position he might consider working part time for a nursing home, or a stopgap job at a surgicenter that advertises in subways, in addition to prescribing glasses in optical shops. Then again, he said, he was still holding a place for advanced training in corneal surgery in St. Louis, his hometown. But that would be difficult, since his wife's career is in New York.
In some fields, even temporary work is harder to find. Dr. Phyllis Woodring, an anesthesiologist in Winston-Salem, N.C., who gets temporary assignments through medical staffing agencies, said that although she was willing to travel anywhere in the country, she was unable to find any work for four months last year.
"This is pathetic," she said. "You spend 12 years of your life preparing to do this and then you can't find work."
A few training programs have plans to reduce the number of specialists they graduate. For example, Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan has plans to decrease the number of anesthesiology residents from 75 now to about 53 by 1997. "I am not in the business of training doctors for jobs that don't exist," said Dr. Joel Kaplan, head of the department there. This year, almost none of the training programs for anesthesiology in New York City had enough medical students to fill their training positions.
But few departments are likely to welcome the idea of downsizing, since New York's hospitals all rely on their virtual armies of residents to provide low cost care in their clinics and on their wards.
Educators at New York's top hospitals, who have often helped build these palaces of specialty care, now find themselves in the odd position of nudging young doctors to think about alternative career paths. Dr. Myron L. Weisfeldt, head of the medical service at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, said he was encouraging residents to look into careers in developing fields, such as linking medicine with computers and health policy research.
"I tell students that unless they have an undying love for a subspecialty they should go into general medicine," Dr. Dantzker said. " Because if they go into something like cardiology they are going to find themselves in a very compromised position."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jonathan Boniuk is finding that specialty training is no guarantee of a big starting income. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (55%); NEW YORK (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; HIRING AND PROMOTION HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); 

PERSON: BONIUK, JONATHAN (DR); ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



345 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: $1.9 Billion Is Poured Into Stock Funds

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Investors poured $1.9 billion into stock funds in the week ended Wednesday, the largest amount in more than a month, as major stock indexes rose to record highs, according to AMG Data Services.
The prospect of higher corporate earnings and forecasts of a gradual slowdown in the economy made last week the best for stock funds since the week ended March 1, when investors put $2.2 billion into stock funds. The Dow Jones industrial average is up 9.75 percent this year and closed at a record 4,208.18 on Thursday. 
 Investors put $380 million into growth and income funds in the latest week and $143 million into international funds. Taxable bond funds also grew in the latest week, the second consecutive week of gains, amid expectations that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates any time soon, AMG said.
A net $142 million flowed into taxable bond funds in the week ended Wednesday as investors shoveled money into United States corporate bonds, AMG said. Investors withdrew money from taxable bond funds last month.
While $114 million was redeemed from United States Government bond funds and another $110 million was withdrawn from international debt funds, investors put $182 million into bond funds that invest in debt with investment-grade ratings. They put another $53 million into junk bond funds.
About $152 million was withdrawn from municipal bond funds in the latest week, AMG said. Municipal bonds were among the top-performing assets through the first three months of 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES AMG DATA SERVICES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMG DATA SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS BONDS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



346 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Players Take Field, But Umpires Walk The Picket Lines

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Just when you thought it was safe to go to the ball park again, the labor-lashed game of baseball still threatens to put replacements on the field. With the delayed opening of the season 10 days away, the real players are playing for the first time since last August, but the real umpires are picketing instead of calling balls and strikes.
The National and American leagues locked out their 64 umpires Jan. 1 and do not intend to ask them back to work until the two sides negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement. No one knows when that might be because bargaining is progressing as slowly and fruitlessly as the languorous talks between the owners and the players, who also have no agreement. 
 In other words, come opening night on April 25, the players, who ended their strike after 234 days, will very likely take the field with replacement umpires. The players may even have to cross the locked-out umpires' picket lines to reach the fields.
"It's not going to work," Jack McDowell, the Yankees' new pitcher, said, discussing the use of replacement umpires, most of whom would be former minor league umpires or amateur umpires. "It'll work on the level that the replacement players would have worked for us. When you put someone in the situation who is not at the level of major league umpires, you're going to have big problems."
Although this dispute over wages and other economic benefits is between leagues and umpires -- the umpires have not received a raise in pay since 1991 -- it also raises intriguing questions about the relationship between umpires and players.
For many years, the two groups' unions have not been enamored of each other. "There's been no love lost," acknowledged Jerry Crawford, president of the Major League Umpires Association. But this year they feel greater kinship because they are at economic war with a common employer, and the players have offered noticeably greater vocal support for their locked-out brethren.
That does not mean that the players will honor picket lines and forgo more of their salaries than the 28 percent they lost last year and the 11 percent they are already losing this season. But Richie Phillips, the umpires' lawyer, said yesterday that the umpires would ask the players to make that very sacrifice if the season begins with replacement umpires.
"We'd like to see baseball get back together and get everybody in America and Canada happy again," Phillips said in a telephone interview. "So we're not asking players to honor our picket lines during spring training because this is the time players need to prepare for the season. That will change if this thing gets to the regular season and we throw up legitimate picket lines. We're going to ask the players not to cross those picket lines, not because we want to put them on the spot but because we feel compelled to do that."
Eugene Orza, the No. 2 official of the players' union, was noncommittal in his reaction to Phillips's comments.
"Right now, we're obviously concerned about the use of scab umpires only slightly less than we were concerned about the use of scab players," Orza said by telephone from Scottsdale, Ariz. "The players believe whatever the occasional differences they have with umpires, those issues are dwarfed by having scab umpires. The players are concerned about playing games with scab umpires and want this thing resolved, but we have not resolved nor addressed the question of what to do in the event that there is picketing."
Robert Kheel, the leagues' negotiator, said the clubs' understanding is that the players are not very likely to honor picket lines. "We certainly hope that isn't the case," he said.
Indeed, besides losing more pay, if the players refused to cross they would play into the strategy of the hard-line owners who wanted to lock them out when they offered to end their strike.
This is the first lockout of umpires after 6 strikes in the previous 25 years. It is a labor history that rivals that of the players and the owners, who have engaged in 8 work stoppages in 23 years.
Gene Budig, the American League president, said the leagues hoped to have the regular umpires back in time for the start of the season, but he added, "We are doing the best we can with the existing situation."
Orza derided the quality of the replacements, saying: "They're not even minor league umpires. They have been released for incompetence and they are being used as scab players were used, as pawns in the leagues' fight with umpires."
By not asking minor league umpires to work major league games, baseball officials have opted to take a different approach than the one taken during the umpires' 73-day strike in 1979. That time they not only used minor league umpires during the strike but also hired four for each league to continue working once the striking umpires returned.
"We learned a lesson in 1979," said Marty Springstead, the American League's executive director of umpiring. "We don't want to jeopardize a guy's career for a short-term use."
The salary scale under the expired four-year contract ranged from $60,000 for rookies to $175,000 for umpires with 25 years in the majors. The leagues proposed only cost-of-living increases while the union asked for what it said would work out to a raise of approximately 6 percent a year for the last four years and the next four, or a total of 47 percent. The union is also seeking increases in per diems, post-season bonuses and retirement pay.
The leagues have rejected that kind of raise, saying the losses suffered in the players' nearly eight-month strike make it impossible. "This is not the time for extraordinary increases," Kheel said. "We have to educate the umpires that they're going to get a Chevy and not a Cadillac."
The umpires say they are used to that sort of treatment and they do not like it. The fans do not view them much differently. Whereas replacement players evoked outrage from at least some fans, replacement umpires have not prompted a whimper.
"We're the last ones anybody cares about," said Don Denkinger, an American League umpire for 26 years. "When do they look for us? They look for us at game time. At 7 o'clock for a 7:05 game they say, 'Where are the umpires?' Until then, there's no major concern for us."
But the players, whether or not they put their money where their mouths are, have more vocally expressed their views this week.
"I think everybody knows that all the players would rather have the regular umpires out there," the Yankees' Don Mattingly said. "They do an excellent job."
Terry Tata, a National League umpire for 22 years, appreciates the verbal support, and for him, that may be sufficient.
"Personally," he said, "I'd rather see the players work so they can expose the people being out on the field acting as umpires. That way we can show them up for what they are."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "What They Make to Make the Calls" shows salary comparison of major league baseball umpires and referees of the N.F.L., N.B.A. and N.H.L. (Sources: N.F.L., N.B.A., N.H.L.)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STRIKES; LABOR; UMPIRES; WAGES AND SALARIES BASEBALL (95%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); STRIKES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



347 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW MEDICAL SPECIALTY: UNEMPLOYMENT
A growing number of young doctors are finding themselves un- or underemployed, stranded in their profession's equivalent of flipping burgers or pumping gas. Managed care has decreased the demand for specialists, particularly in places like New York. Page 1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 

2 BOMBING LEADERS: CAN U.S. PROVE IT?
Ever since Ramzi Ahmed Yousef was arrested in Pakistan two months ago on charges that he engineered the World Trade Center explosion, Federal prosecutors have found themselves in a predicament. On the one hand, they are trying to prove that Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman was the spiritual leader of a band of terrorists who plotted to blow up not only the World Trade Center but also the United Nations and the Hudson River tunnels. On the other hand, prosecutors will soon try to prove in a separate trial that it was Mr. Yousef who masterminded the Trade Center attack. Page 1.
 
'TAKE PART IN SPIRITUAL WARFARE'
 Abortion foes from across the country are planning a rally in New York City next month, seeking to amend or repeal a Federal law that bars protesters from blocking entrances to abortion clinics. The group organizing the rally, Operation Rescue California, is urging followers to come to New York and "take part in spiritual warfare." Page 22.
 
HIT FOR HIRE, PLUS WELFARE FRAUD
A man charged with trying to hire a hit man to murder his father's business partner was indicted on new charges that he illegally collected welfare benefits from New York City while living in New Jersey. Page 23.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and his wife, Donna Hanover Giuliani, had $250,343 in taxable income last year, their tax returns show. Page 23.
The nephew of a former Staten Island borough president was shot to death. Page 22.
 
REGION
 
DENYING SHELTER FOR BAD CONDUCT
The Pataki administration wants homeless people to be ejected from shelters if they fail to follow a variety of rules, including participating in drug treatment programs, state officials said. The administration would for the first time make the right to emergency shelter in New York contingent on willingness to comply with a strict code of conduct. Page 1.
 
STATE TAKEOVERS AND LOCAL HOSTILITY
The state-appointed school superintendent in Jersey City wields something granted no one else in the municipal government: veto power. He can use it to jettison any plan under discussion by the school board. It is this absolute control that has engendered widespread hostility to state takeover in Jersey City and Paterson, a process now looming in Newark. Page 24.
 
2 ACCUSED OF FAKERY IN AIRCRAFT REPAIRS
Two former executives of a major aircraft repair company, Chromalloy Research and Technology, were indicted by a Federal grand jury, accused of intentionally cutting corners and doing shoddy repair work on hundreds of engine parts and then assuring the air carriers that the parts had been properly serviced, Federal prosecutors said. Page 24.
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 23
Traffic Alert 22

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Fishing Licenses" shows number of fishing licenses obtained in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut from '90-'93. (Sources: New Jersey Department of Environmental Conservation and Energy, Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection and New York Department of Environmental Conservation.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); CITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); GRAND JURY (76%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); TERRORISM (72%); ARRESTS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ETHICS (71%); VETO (71%); WELFARE FRAUD (70%); MAYORS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (67%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (67%); ABORTION (67%); INCOME TAX (63%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (62%); AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE REPAIR & OVERHAUL (62%); AIRLINES (60%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (60%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (60%); MURDER (56%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



348 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
N.B.A. Union Leader Quits Amid Discord

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Charles Grantham, the executive director of the National Basketball Association players union since 1988, announced yesterday that he was resigning, a sudden departure that heightened the uncertainty surrounding the league's unsettled labor situation.
Citing "irreconcilable differences" over matters of governing the players organization, Grantham and the union's president, Buck Williams, released a terse, joint statement announcing the resignation. 
 Simon Gourdine, the union's general counsel, was immediately named as Grantham's successor.
Williams, the veteran forward for the Portland Trail Blazers, said in the statement that Grantham was "departing the association on amicable terms."
Two people close to the union, however, said they believed the executive board either ousted Grantham or allowed him to step down under pressure, mainly because he had failed to move along negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement between the association and the league.
Grantham did not respond to messages left at his New York City home seeking comment.
His departure comes at a critical time for the N.B.A., which last fall barely avoided becoming the third professional sport to shut down because of a labor dispute. In late October, with the baseball players on strike and the hockey owners locking out their players, Grantham joined Commissioner David Stern in agreeing to play a full season under the previous contract, with some stipulations.
But with the end of the regular season and the playoffs approaching, the two sides are facing a summer of negotiations that, according to one person with knowledge of the bargaining, have produced very little progress so far.
Issues such as the salary cap, a proposed cap on rookie salaries and the abolition of restricted free agency have been some of the sticking points in the negotiations.
Charles Smith, a Knicks forward and executive vice president of the players association, said before his game in Indiana last night: "It was a difference of opinion and philosophies. Over a period of time, we just saw things differently regarding the governing of the office. We wanted to have more control of the situation regarding everything from A to Z. We wanted to know more about everything that was going on. After months and months of talking about the future, and what needs to be done, it just got to the point where we saw a difference of opinion and it wasn't going to change."
When asked how he would assess Grantham's handling of the negotiations, Smith replied: "We thought he was doing a decent job. It just came to a head, talking about the past, present and future. We just had a difference of opinion. We wanted things to be done one way, and he thinks things should be done another."
Smith said Grantham was not dismissed.
As early as three weeks ago, Grantham intimated the union was close to submitting a new proposal that he believed would lead to the signing of a new agreement.
"People don't realize how close we are to having the same problems baseball had," he said in late March before a Knicks-Nets game. "I feel confident we can avoid what happened there, but you just can't tell until the other side has a chance to respond."
Grantham, who played basketball at Cheyney State and earned a graduate degree from the Wharton School, began working for the union full time in 1978 under his predecessor, Larry Fleisher. He believed part of the success the league and the union had in avoiding a work stoppage had much to do with both sides refusing to negotiate through the news media, as in baseball.
"Once you say something in the papers, you can't take it back," he said. "But when you say it at the bargaining table, and it's kept there, you can always come back the next day and change your mind. I feel confident we'll have something done very soon."
But in less than a month, Grantham's plans apparently backfired severely.
"At some point over the last several weeks, the executive committee effectively lost confidence in Charlie and his leadership," said one person close to the union. "In essence, they gave him the opportunity to resign."
In the prepared statement, he said, "I valued greatly my experience representing N.B.A. players over the past 15 years, but now I'm looking forward to pursuing other career opportunities."
Russell T. Granik, the league's deputy commissioner, released a statement regarding Grantham's resignation. "Charles Grantham guided a Players Association through a period of tremendous economic growth for the N.B.A. and its players," it said. "We have always maintained a productive business relationship with the union's leadership and are confident that this relationship will continue with the union under the direction of Buck and Simon."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (79%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (57%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (57%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; LABOR BASKETBALL (93%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); SPORTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STRIKES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BASEBALL (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (71%); LAWYERS (69%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; GRANTHAM, CHARLES DAVID STERN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



349 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: Higher U.S. Rates Urged

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 (AP)

 BODY:
The head of International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus, advised the United States today to raise interest rates, in some of the most pointed comments the international lending agency has ever directed at American policy makers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (83%); 

PERSON: CAMDESSUS, MICHEL MICHEL CAMDESSUS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



350 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan's Trade Surplus Shrinks (Except With U.S.)

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 14

 BODY:
With pressure mounting from Washington that Japan do more to narrow its trade surplus, the Japanese Government reported today that the overall surplus shrank in March and the latest fiscal year but that the imbalance with the United States widened in both periods.
As long as the yen remains strong, economists said, the overall surplus is not likely to decline significantly in coming months. 
 The Finance Ministry said Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus narrowed to $13.84 billion in March from $13.90 billion in March 1994 and to $117.98 billion in the fiscal year that ended on March 31 from a revised $121.88 billion in the prior fiscal year. The prior fiscal year's surplus was Japan's highest ever.
At the same time, the ministry said Japan's surplus with the United States widened to $5.08 billion in March from $4.94 billion in the month a year earlier and to $55.66 billion in the fiscal year from $51.12 billion in the previous fiscal year.
Japanese exports to the rest of the world rose 16.4 percent in March from a year earlier, to $42.53 billion, while imports to Japan increased 26.7 percent, to $28.69 billion. In the full fiscal year, exports rose 11.5 percent, to $408.47 billion, and imports increased 18.9 percent, to $290.49 billion.
In trade with the United States, Japanese exports rose 9.9 percent in March, to $11.75 billion, while imports grew 16 percent, to $6.66 billion. In the full year, Japanese exports to the United States increased 11.3 percent, to $120.10 billion, while imports from the United States grew 13.5 percent, to $64.44 billion.
Officials in Washington have pressed Japan for years to reduce its trade surplus. Earlier this week, Cabinet officers and other American officials who deal with trade matters approved a strategy under which the United States would warn Japan that it would move to impose several billion dollars in punitive tariffs unless major progress was made in opening Japanese markets to American autos and auto parts in the next three weeks.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin will meet with his Japanese counterpart, Masayoshi Takemura, in Indonesia over the weekend.
Economists said they did not expect any significant decline in Japan's surplus unless the yen began to weaken. They said the high yen would spur Japanese companies to move more production abroad, which would necessitate exports of costly manufacturing equipment. That will help cause Japan's overall exports to increase.
In theory, imports should be increased by the strong yen because it makes foreign goods less expensive in terms of the Japanese currency. But the economic slowdown will trim the potential rise, the economists said.
 And even though the strong Japanese currency means that Japanese companies receive fewer yen for every dollar of sales in the United States, shipments to the United States are likely to continue unabated because the exporters would rather absorb the cost from the strong currency than raise prices in that important market, said Iwaki Hidehiro, senior economist at the Nomura Research Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE COS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); INDONESIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



351 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Borrowing, With Its Fat Fees, Lures Wall Street

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 14

 BODY:
This city's compact financial district, overlooking Lake Ontario, bisected by lower Bay Street and occupying less than a square mile of real estate, so resembles its counterpart in lower Manhattan that movie companies looking for a Wall Street location often shoot here.
While film makers are attracted by the striking resemblance and a cheaper Canadian dollar, Wall Street's investment powerhouses in recent months have been lured to Bay Street by the fat underwriting commissions from one of the world's largest borrowing countries. 
 In the biggest American drive for Canadian financial business since the market was deregulated in the mid-1980's, Salomon Brothers; Goldman, Sachs & Company; Smith Barney, a unit of Travelers; Morgan Stanley Group, and Lehman Brothers are expanding their operations on Bay Street.
The American incursion has come even as the huge Canadian debt -- about $550 billion (Canadian), or nearly $400 billion (United States) -- has raised concerns over the country's credit rating. Moody's Investors Service on Wednesday downgraded Canada's triple-A status for Canadian dollar-denominated debt to double-A-1. But the move had been widely anticipated and had little market impact. The Canadian dollar actually rose both Wednesday and Thursday. As one trader put it, "The news cleared away the uncertainties." Markets have long known, he added, that Canada's risk was higher than the country's credit rating. Perceived weakness in the Quebec separatist movement has been a major force behind the strengthening Canadian dollar.
Besides helping sell government debt, the American houses work in an advisory capacity for many American and Canadian companies, helping with mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance and other matters. The American firms are benefiting from the increased North American business spurred by freer trade, especially after last year's North American Free Trade Agreement. And they share the general belief that despite some recent Government budget tightening future capital needs will continue to be enormous.
The outstanding federal and provincial debt is roughly the same as Canada's gross domestic product, or the value of all goods and services produced last year. As a percentage of G.D.P., only Italy's is higher among the leading industrial countries.
According to a tabulation by Euromoney magazine of London, eight Canadian provinces, topped by Ontario, led the pack of worldwide provincial, state and municipal borrowers for the year ended June 30, 1994. In fact, Ontario, with $7.5 billion of loans, ranked fourth after the European Investment Bank, Sweden and Italy.
The debt volumes exceed the capacity of the Canadian capital market. Nearly half of all Canadian debt is held by foreigners, chiefly pension funds in the United States.
"What makes this market compelling are its tremendous requirements for debt and equity capital, its growth at a relatively more rapid rate than other capital markets and the global market integration that's now under way," said Jamie Kiernan, president of Goldman, Sachs Canada Ltd.
Goldman, Sachs and the other houses are driven by strong competitive forces. David Driscoll, editor of The Investment Reporter, a weekly Toronto investment newsletter, says it is the case of no one wanting to be left behind. He speaks of a "lemming effect -- if there's money to be made, everyone follows."
An added incentive now is indications that Canadian authorities look more favorably upon investment houses with Canadian-based operations.
"It's no doubt much more difficult to distribute Canadian dollar bonds if there's no presence in the Canadian market," said John Madden, chief executive officer of the Ontario Financing Authority and the province's assistant deputy minister of finance.
The Canadian financial institutions are watching with keen interest. Many decline to comment for the record. An executive at one of the big Canadian national banks, who asked not to be identified, observed, "This is bound to get pretty cutthroat."
Yet some Canadians say they are looking forward to the competition. "The more players, the better," said Greg Clarke, vice president of the Investment Dealers Association of Canada. "We like to see knowledgeable, well-capitalized players in our marketplace because it breeds innovation and makes better markets."
John Ing, president of Maison Placements Canada Inc., an investment boutique dealing exclusively with institutions, said, "We welcome them, but so far we haven't seen much of them, since they're mainly going after the fixed-income side," or bond business.
A number of the American investment houses are simply building on a presence here dating from the so-called Big Bang of 1987, when the regulatory walls came down, eliminating the kind of restrictions that had forced Canadian financial institutions to provide circumscribed services and that had prohibited most foreign dealers from competing in Canada.
Goldman, Sachs came up then to set up full-scale bond trading and investment banking operations. Now Goldman, with 60 employees -- the second-biggest contingent after Merrill Lynch -- is building an equity trading and underwriting operation for Canadian institutional clients.
Merrill Lynch Canada, which set up shop here in 1952 and which employs 180 for its bond trading and investment banking operation, used to be much larger. In earlier years it had gone into the retail stock brokerage business and had as many as 1,600 employees. But profits were disappointing, especially after the 1987 market crash, and in 1990 it sold its brokerage business to CIBC Wood Gundy Inc., a subsidiary of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
Despite the stepped-up activities of Merrill Lynch's competitors, Paul Thomas -- president of Merrill Lynch Canada and an alumnus of Goldman, Sachs -- said: "We're fairly comfortable. There's always room to improve, but we feel we cover the country fairly well." Expansion, he added, is "always under review."
Both Salomon and Morgan Stanley established corporate finance advisory services here in 1987. They intended to follow Goldman, Sachs with more ambitious bond trading and investment banking operations but got cold feet after the market crash that year. Now both are moving ahead full speed.
Salomon opened a bond trading floor in December; it has 4 salesmen and 4 traders and expects to have 15 on the payroll within a year. Morgan Stanley is tripling the size of its Toronto office staff, from 15 to 50.
Smith Barney has just moved into the corporate services business in Toronto. Andre Hidi, now chief executive of Smith Barney Canada, had run these activities for Morgan Stanley.
Last month, Lehman announced it was opening a broker-dealer office here that would have 15 professionals. It will focus on corporate finance, trading a broad range of bonds.
European and Asian financial houses are also raising the ante. The Hongkong Bank of Canada, part of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Group of HSBC Holdings, has expanded its stake -- from 50 to 75 percent -- in the Bay Street securities firm of BBN James Capel. Another international giant, the Deutsche Bank of Frankfurt, is increasing investment banking and bond trading activity at McLean McCarthy Inc., a financial boutique it acquired in 1987.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wall Street firms have flocked to Bay Street, Toronto's financial district, which resembles its Manhattan counterpart. (Robert Skeoch for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ITALY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; SMITH BARNEY INC; MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC; LEHMAN BROTHERS INC GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON BROTHERS; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; SMITH BARNEY INC; MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC; LEHMAN BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ITALY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); MERGERS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (63%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



352 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Plan To Help Dollar Doesn't Impress Tokyo Markets

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 14

 BODY:
Japan's emergency plan to stem the fall of the dollar against the yen and to stimulate the nation's economy failed to impress the financial markets today, raising fears here that the dollar's fall could resume next week.
Critics said the measures, announced today, were vague and lacked teeth. "I'm a little bit shocked at seeing today's package," said Masaru Takagi, chief economist of the Fuji Research Institute, associated with the Fuji Bank. "There are no concrete figures yet, no concrete features at all." 
 Currency markets seemed to shrug off the announcement, with exchange rates barely budging. In late trading in Tokyo, the dollar was quoted at 83.58 yen, up only slightly from 83.50 yen in late New York trading Thursday. Trading was kept thin by the Good Friday holiday, which closed other major financial centers.
Stock investors gave an even harsher reception. After having climbed for four consecutive days, partly in anticipation of today's package, the Tokyo stock market fell sharply today. The Nikkei average of 225 stocks dropped 390.90 points, or 2.4 percent, to 16,047.89.
The emergency plan was announced today in response to Monday's sharp drop of the dollar to a postwar record low of 80.15 yen here. The weak dollar and strong yen are threatening to derail an economic recovery that has just begun in Japan by choking off Japan's exports.
In perhaps the most significant of today's measures, the Bank of Japan cut the official discount rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, to a record low for Japan of 1 percent. While businessmen called this a welcome move, if somewhat late, the currency markets had already been expecting such a cut.
Other parts of the plan called for increasing public works spending, spurring imports and accelerating the deregulation of the economy. The Government, in effect, was trying to convince the currency markets that it was serious about lowering Japan's trade surplus, which is considered a major factor behind the long-term rise of the yen.
It failed to convince. Today's measures, as in many past trade plans, consisted largely of statements of intent rather than concrete actions.
The Government did say it would be willing to use deficit financing to stimulate the economy, something that the Finance Ministry has long resisted. But there were no figures yet on how much public spending would be increased.
In the auto area, currently the focus of tense negotiations between the United States and Japan, the plan calls only for Japan to build some "permanent exhibition places" to display foreign cars and automobile parts.
Much of the plan was directed not at influencing the currency rates but at helping Japan cope with the stronger yen.
The discount rate cut, for instance, could help spur economic activity. But today's was the eighth cut in the rate since 1991, when Japan's economy started to go into a downturn. In that span the rate has been cut by 5 percent, yet the economy still remains weak.
Bureaucrats deleted from the plan some stronger proposals, such as one to set a numerical target for cutting the trade surplus in half in five years. A proposal to cut the tax on securities transactions in an effort to help revive the stock market will be studied. 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Dollar Little Changed
 By Bloomberg Business News
 The dollar was little changed against the yen yesterday as currency dealers were skeptical that Japan's new economic package would be effective in curbing the strength of the yen.
Trading was very light yesterday. United States markets were closed for Good Friday, and many dealers stayed home for the Easter and Passover weekend. In London and Frankfurt, two large centers for currency trading, markets and banks were closed yesterday and will not reopen until Tuesday.
In New York late yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 83.30 yen, down from 83.50 yen on Thursday, and at 1.3915 German marks, up from 1.3864 marks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BONDS (69%); EASTER SEASON (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



353 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Is a Trans-Atlantic Pact Coming Down the Pike?

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 14

 BODY:
An idea that seems self-evident economically, but almost impossible politically, has recently caught the attention of politicians, trade experts and business executives in Europe and North America -- a trans-Atlantic free-trade agreement.
Yes, it has been considered before and put aside. Yes, it would take years to negotiate. Yes, it might have to exclude agricultural subsidies. 
 And while no government has so far adopted such a free-trade zone as a goal, the decibel level of conversation is rising dramatically.
"There's hardly a high-level meeting on trade where the issue does not come up," said Stuart E. Eizenstat, the American Ambassador to the European Union in Brussels. "This is just in the earliest stages of getting on the Administration's radar screen."
Currently, the roster of politicians, trade officials or executives embracing the idea of an Atlantic free-trade zone, or something like it, includes Jean Chretien, Prime Minister of Canada; Jacques Santer, president of the European Commission; Edzard Reuter, chief executive of Daimler-Benz A. G.; Lane Kirkland, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Alain Juppe, Foreign Minister of France.
American officials said President Clinton had discussed the idea with Prime Minister John Major of Britain earlier this month, but the officials would not elaborate.
In the eyes of its proponents, a United States-Europe free-trade agreement would go far beyond the reduced tariff barriers negotiated under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to include elimination of tariffs and quotas on all services, on new telecommunications products and on government procurement policies. It might also harmonize taxation of corporations.
On the European side, support for such a trade agreement grows out of two areas of concern.
One is that without the binding force of a common Communist enemy, the European-American partnership has been weakened and is more and more vexed by a series of small trade disputes that almost inevitably turn into bitter squabbles.
Officials here point to the recent dispute over who would head the World Trade Organization, pitting an American candidate against a European one. Or a growing friction over subsidies of European and American airline manufacturers. Or recent charges by France that Washington engaged in economic espionage. Or European import restrictions on Latin American bananas.
"With every passing day I feel reconfirmed in my view that differing economic interests could quite conceivably undermine the old solidarity existing between us," said Mr. Reuter of Daimler-Benz.
Europe is also afraid that it will be isolated by free-trade pacts that Washington is trying to form with Latin American and Asian countries. While Europe had announced its own free-trade deals with East European and Mediterranean countries, its overall market would be dwarfed by that of the Americas and the Pacific Basin.
"It is rather odd for the E.U. to have concluded free-trade arrangements with a host of countries but not have something of the kind with the United States," said Andreas van Agt, the European Union's former ambassador to the United States.
Jeffrey E. Garten, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, and one of the Clinton Administration officials who is quietly pushing the idea of a union, argues that economics and social factors argue strongly in favor of such an agreement.
"Europe is and will continue to be for years the most important and biggest market for Americans," he said.
For example, United States trade and sales of American corporations based in Europe totaled $1.7 trillion in 1992, Mr. Garten said. That is 55 percent larger than the total commerce with Asia in the same year -- $1.1 trillion.
Moreover, in Asia the United States has accumulated a deficit of more than $1 trillion over the last 25 years; American trade with Europe in that time "has been almost perfectly in balance," Mr. Garten said.
And because the European Union is such a huge trade market -- $7 trillion a year in economic output -- modest growth of, say, 3 percent, generates a stunning $210 billion in economic activity that is a potential market for American goods.
"This is like finding a new market the size of Taiwan's every year," Mr. Garten said.
Spurring on Washington is the fact that Mexico is quietly trying to negotiate its own free-trade accord with Europe, and that Europe is seeking to establish free-trade ties with the countries of the Mercosur trade pact -- Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay -- as well as with Chile and Bolivia.
But whatever the arguments in favor of a broad agreement, officials say it may be long in coming.
One big obstacle is the issue of agricultural subsidies and barriers, which almost scuttled a GATT accord last year and could doom any free-trade accord.
Another is that officials want to get the World Trade Organization off the ground and see how it operates before taking up complex new negotiations. Mats Hellstrom, Sweden's Minister of Foreign Trade, said such negotiations should be expanded beyond a European-North American free-trade agreement, to include all GATT members.
Third, next year the European Union faces what is called its Intergovernmental Conference, a kind of constitutional convention, where the principles of the union will be examined and possibly changed.
Finally, American and European trade negotiators are suffering from a kind of diplomatic exhaustion from the negotiations over the GATT, and more recently the bitter dispute over who would head the W.T.O.
But those discussing the issue of a new trade pact say it is not about to go away.
"There is no question in my mind that 10 years from now our trade relationship with the E.U. will be more liberalized than it is today," Mr. Eizenstat said. "But doing a full-blown free-trade agreement sooner will be difficult."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "In and Out of Balance" shows United States merchandise trade balance with European Union and Japan from '78-'94. (Sources: National Trade Data Bank; Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (82%); DAI (BIT) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION DAIMLER AG (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AFL-CIO (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AFL-CIO (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C BILL CLINTON (58%); JEAN CHRETIEN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



354 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Drops For First Time in Six Months

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
The Government today reported the first drop in industrial production in six months, providing further evidence of an economic slowdown.
The Federal Reserve said that industrial output fell in March by three-tenths of 1 percent, only the second decline in nearly two years and the first drop since September, when the figure reflected an auto industry strike. 
 The central bank also revised figures for January and February to reflect that the cumulative gain in output for the two months was three-tenths of 1 percent less than previously estimated.
And another closely watched Federal Reserve index showed that the nation's factories, mines and utilities were operating with more slack in March for the second consecutive month. It was the first back-to-back decline for the operating rate in nearly two years.
Even though the production decline was led by a sharp drop for utilities because of unusually mild weather, analysts said the signs of a broad-based slowdown were unmistakable.
"All of the pieces are falling into place to strengthen the case for a soft landing," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation, a Minneapolis banking company. "We have really a nice situation where an economic slowdown is occurring with limited inflation."
There is practically no chance the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again anytime soon, he said, adding the next move could be a rate cut to stimulate growth.
"Fed watching is going to be pretty boring for awhile," Mr. Sohn said.
Traders and analysts will have a long weekend to absorb the data; financial markets in the United States were closed today for Good Friday.
The Federal Reserve said the industrial operating rate fell five-tenths of 1 percent, following a dip of two-tenths of 1 percent in February that had earlier been estimated to be an increase of two-tenths of a point.
Still, the central bank said the consecutive declines left the operating rate at 84.9 percent of capacity -- equaling a peak achieved during a recovery in 1988 and 1989.
In another report that could lead to slower economic activity, the Commerce Department said business inventories rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in February, the 11th consecutive gain, and jumped a revised 1.3 percent the previous month. The January gain matched the biggest buildup of stocks on store shelves and factory back lots in more than a decade.
Analysts said the big increases might foretell a cut in production if consumer spending continued to ease.
The economy expanded at a robust 5.1 percent annual rate in the final quarter of last year. Economists expected it slowed to around 3 percent in the first three months of 1995 and predict an even smaller gain in the current quarter.
The slowdown was by design, as the Fed raised interest rates seven times in a 12-month period that ended Feb. 1 to keep inflation under control.
The Fed had worried that rising industrial output and dwindling unused capacity would lead to bottlenecks and rising prices.
Much of the drop-off in production last month occurred at utilities, where output plunged 2.6 percent and reversed a similar-sized jump in February.
Manufacturing output in March slipped one-tenth of 1 percent, matching the drop the previous month.
Production of big-ticket durable goods for consumers fell 1.9 percent last month, led by a drop in light trucks and further weakness in production of household furniture and appliances.
Production at mines fell half a percent in March after rising the same amount in February.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Industrial Production" shows index of total industrial production from Oct. '93-March '95 (Source: Commerce Department); "Capacity Utilization" shows total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted from Oct. '93-March '95. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EASTER SEASON (72%); WEATHER (68%); 

PERSON: SUNG WON SOHN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



355 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: $1.9 Billion Is Poured Into Stock Funds

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Investors poured $1.9 billion into stock funds in the week ended Wednesday, the largest amount in more than a month, as major stock indexes rose to record highs, according to AMG Data Services.
The prospect of higher corporate earnings and forecasts of a gradual slowdown in the economy made last week the best for stock funds since the week ended March 1, when investors put $2.2 billion into stock funds. The Dow Jones industrial average is up 9.75 percent this year and closed at a record 4,208.18 on Thursday. 
 Investors put $380 million into growth and income funds in the latest week and $143 million into international funds. Taxable bond funds also grew in the latest week, the second consecutive week of gains, amid expectations that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates any time soon, AMG said.
A net $142 million flowed into taxable bond funds in the week ended Wednesday as investors shoveled money into United States corporate bonds, AMG said. Investors withdrew money from taxable bond funds last month.
While $114 million was redeemed from United States Government bond funds and another $110 million was withdrawn from international debt funds, investors put $182 million into bond funds that invest in debt with investment-grade ratings. They put another $53 million into junk bond funds.
About $152 million was withdrawn from municipal bond funds in the latest week, AMG said. Municipal bonds were among the top-performing assets through the first three months of 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES AMG DATA SERVICES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMG DATA SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS BONDS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



356 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: Higher U.S. Rates Urged

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 (AP)

 BODY:
The head of International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus, advised the United States today to raise interest rates, in some of the most pointed comments the international lending agency has ever directed at American policy makers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (83%); 

PERSON: CAMDESSUS, MICHEL MICHEL CAMDESSUS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995



357 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1962 words

HEADLINE: McNamara's Retreat

BYLINE: By Max Frankel; Max Frankel, a columnist for The New York Times Magazine and a former executive editor of The Times, was a Washington correspondent covering diplomacy and the White House in the 1960's.

 BODY:

IN RETROSPECT
The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam.
By Robert S. McNamara with Brian VanDeMark.
Illustrated. 414 pp. New York:
Times Books/Random House. $27.50. 
 IN his 79th year, Robert S. McNamara at long last offers the public a glimpse of his aching conscience. The most willful Vietnam warrior in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, he was also the first at the top to admit defeat, in private. He then stood silent on the war for a quarter-century and drowned his sorrow in good works at the World Bank. Mr. McNamara personified the slow maturing of America's foreign policy from cocky interventionism to cost-conscious realism, yet for a generation he refused to explain his conversion, explore his mistakes, judge his colleagues or instruct posterity. The pain, or the guilt, was simply too great. As he states in the preface to "In Retrospect": "This is the book I planned never to write."
Until now, he contends, the story of how "the best and the brightest" got it wrong in Vietnam has not been told. But David Halberstam, who applied that ironic phrase to his rendering of the tale 23 years ago, told it better in many ways than Mr. McNamara does now. So, too, did the Pentagon Papers, that huge trove of documents assembled at Mr. McNamara's behest when he first recognized a debt to history. The contemporary analyses in the papers, which were leaked to The Times in 1971, stand up so well that they now serve their patron as a major source.
What Mr. McNamara adds to the public record are some White House documents and tape transcripts revealing, most notably, his own agonized attempts in 1967 to persuade President Lyndon B. Johnson to stop sending more men to the slaughter: the Secretary of Defense who had come to tame the Pentagon with managerial wizardry ended up desperately begging for a fig leaf for withdrawal, in the form of a coalition that would inevitably give the Vietcong dominance in Saigon. Mr. McNamara says he does not know to this day whether he thus quit or was fired. "Maybe it was both."
But he left with a whimper, not a bang. So why speak out now? The main reason, he says, is that he has "grown sick at heart witnessing the cynicism and even contempt" with which so many Americans view their institutions and leaders. He knows how much Vietnam contributed to that disaffection; he would never deny the war's terrible damage. But he hopes to prove that the mistakes were "mostly honest," even if traceable to a ghastly ignorance of the Vietnamese people, culture and terrain, and the historical forces of that time.
Why should the rest of us relive his agony? Mr. McNamara, characteristically statistical, points to "11 major causes for our disaster in Vietnam" in a chapter called "The Lessons of Vietnam." But implicitly his book screams another lesson: Though cynicism and contempt for power are destructive of government, a respectful skepticism is essential, and rarely wrong.
BY delaying his war memoir so long, Mr. McNamara has greatly compounded the difficulty of his mission. Now that the Soviet Union lies in ruins and American corporations beg for business in China and Vietnam, no one under the age of 50 can be expected to fathom the fears and phobias of the 1960's to which he rightly ascribes the Indochina disaster. President Dwight D. Eisenhower, the most venerated American of the time, had taught -- and the Kennedy and Johnson teams never dared to doubt in time -- that if South Vietnam was "lost" to Communism, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand and Malaysia would fall like dominoes, imperiling India, Burma, Indonesia and the Philippines, if not also Japan, and emboldening the Russians and Chinese to extend Communist conquests by military force or subversion in ways that would sooner or later provoke a nuclear World War III, the very destruction of civilization.
Yes, that is how America's leaders spoke to each other and, all too persuasively, to the public. Mr. McNamara's book reminds us that they even repeated the litany in memos to their Presidents, to inoculate them against any temptation to retreat from Vietnam. And if all those dominoes were not cause enough, there were promises to be kept in order to preserve the value of America's other diplomatic threats and commitments.
Mr. McNamara and his generation came to power convinced that the "appeasement" of Nazi Germany -- the failure to block its early grasp for Europe's dominoes -- had led inevitably to a catastrophic World War II. Averting another such disaster, they were sure, required punishing anything resembling Communist aggression in its earliest stages, when the cost would be tolerable. That was their creed as they rebuilt Western Europe and stood toe to toe with the Soviet armies across Germany, fought to a bloody stalemate against China in Korea, threatened war over Berlin and risked war to force Soviet missiles out of Cuba. Thus "contained," the Soviets and Chinese took to endorsing "wars of liberation," thereby qualifying even distant uprisings as threats to American security. Mr. McNamara's first assignment from President John F. Kennedy was to augment America's nuclear power, whose use was unimaginable, with the forces and weapons they were sure would be needed to fight "conventional" wars.
From this bed of doctrine grew what Mr. McNamara considers his team's most fateful error: mistaking Ho Chi Minh's nationalist drive to unite Vietnam as the challenge of a monolithic Communist world. That misjudgment foreclosed any discussion of how an American withdrawal from Indochina could be made strategically tolerable. It even prevented analysis, before the plunge, of how high a price the commitment was worth. Mr. McNamara's dry rendering of those fateful tenets of containment fails to convey the passion with which they were embraced. And he mostly ignores their powerful resonance in domestic politics.
Kennedy, no less than Johnson, subscribed to these simplistic doctrines and the misjudgments they inspired, even though Mr. McNamara, without persuasive evidence, deems it "highly probable" that Kennedy would have pulled back from massive intervention in a second term. This presumes that had Kennedy lived, the same cast of senior officials would have avoided what Mr. McNamara describes as a second tier of error: the failure to live by the mantra that the battle in Vietnam was political, a fight for the "hearts and minds" of an abused peasantry, and that Americans could assist but never supplant the South Vietnamese.
In this pew, Mr. McNamara himself was a prominent sinner. His can-do spirit found no mission impossible, even as Saigon's governments and armies crumbled. His domineering intellect and predilection for systems analysis made him a pathetic victim of erroneous and deceptive military audits of bodies counted, weapons captured, sorties flown, supply lines ruptured. Soon enough, as the press decided, it became "McNamara's war," and certainly America's.
Mr. McNamara deplores the absence of political advice from old Asia hands who had been driven from Government service in the McCarthy purges. But as he proves again in this memoir, he did not easily integrate political wisdom and intuition into his analyses. Even in retrospect, he does not associate the drift into war in Vietnam with the Republican taunts that Democrats had "lost" China to Communism. (Kennedy was afraid to recognize not only China but even Outer Mongolia!) Mr. McNamara cannot bring himself to believe that the election calendar affected Johnson's willingness to escalate the war in 1965 but not in 1964 or, as Johnson eventually confessed to Doris Kearns, that he stayed the course in Asia because he feared losing effectiveness at home -- like Truman after the "loss" of China -- as much as he feared the repercussions of defeat abroad.
Finally, Mr. McNamara recounts a third tier of error -- an escalating pattern of military misjudgment. He is hard on the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their misplaced optimism in the early years, their always excessive faith in high-tech weapons and their later expectations that massive bombing and frontal battles could wear down the Vietnamese enemy. He is remiss in not fully rebutting the postwar claims that timid civilians had tied the military's hands with unreasonable limits on troop commitments and bombing targets. Mr. McNamara emphasizes how little was accomplished by bombings heavier even than those in World War II. And he explains Johnson's caution in target selection by recalling the fear that a more rapid escalation could provoke Chinese intervention. But Americans who cannot accept David's triumph over Goliath draw more belligerent "lessons" from this history, which Mr. McNamara should have engaged more directly.
Even more disappointing is Mr. McNamara's unwillingness to explore the human tragedies and political legacies of this longest American war. What was it like to send tens of thousands to their deaths in an increasingly dubious cause? How did the strain affect the men in charge? We get a glimpse of Jacqueline Kennedy beating him on the chest in protest against the war, and of angry insults hurled on the ski slopes, but no real introspection. Mr. McNamara says the war tore deeply at his own family, but quickly adds: "I am not comfortable speaking in such terms."
What then of the political legacy? How, without growing cynical, can citizens protect themselves against the stubborn ignorance and misplaced zeal of their leaders? In the darkest days, Mr. McNamara remembers, he watched the demonstrators from his Pentagon window and insisted that his subordinates show respect for the freedoms of speech and assembly. But he took refuge -- and takes it even now -- in opinion polls that recorded support from the majority of Americans who, as he well knew, had been misinformed and denied vital information at every major turn.
"Looking back," he writes, "I clearly erred by not forcing . . . a knock-down, drag-out debate over the loose assumptions, unasked questions and thin analyses underlying our military strategy in Vietnam. I had spent 20 years as a manager identifying problems and forcing organizations -- often against their will -- to think deeply and realistically about alternative courses of action and their consequences. I doubt I will ever fully understand why I did not do so here."
YET even now Mr. McNamara means he should have stirred debate only inside the small circle of Presidential counselors led by himself, Secretary of State Dean Rusk and McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser (later succeeded by Walt Rostow). Mr. McNamara blames Johnson for going to war furtively, with no regard for the rights of Congress and the public, but he rejects any obligation to resign in protest or, once out of office, to share his policy disagreements with the country. Cabinet officers, he contends, should have a constituency of one: the President -- from whom they derive all authority and through whom alone they can be held accountable.
That is surely the right ethic for normal times. Unelected officials should not steal their President's mandate to pursue an independent course. But a thousand dead Americans a month create their own constituency. Even military discipline admits a higher duty than hierarchical loyalty when power is badly used and puts lives at risk.
Mr. McNamara relieved his private turmoil by reading poetry, and shared his misgivings with Robert F. Kennedy and a few other intimates. But he refused to abandon or attack the President whom he had helped to guide into quicksand. He and Johnson "loved and respected" each other, in a bond that even now, in retrospect, keeps the public at a distance looking on, with skepticism, I hope.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IN RETROSPECT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (78%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (78%); 

COMPANY: TIMES BOOKS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (78%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LITERATURE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX; VANDEMARK, BRIAN; MCNAMARA, ROBERT S JOHN F KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



358 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 29; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7643 words

HEADLINE: THE FIRST PRIMARY

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason Deparle is the staff writer for The Times Magazine

 BODY:
Twenty-nine floors above Nashville, a slight man in a dark suit is exploding into the telephone. "What's goin' owwnnn?!" he shouts, in a voice that has closed a thousand deals. Ted Welch, mid-south mogul and Republican money man, is searching for $20 million, which he thinks can turn Lamar Alexander, the former Governor of Tennessee, into the President of the United States. It is 3 P.M., and Welch is on his 19th phone call of the afternoon - this one to a Washington lobbyist he os urging to co-sponsor a $1,000-a-plate dinner. The lobbyist, as confident and as loud, responds with a name that Welch does not want to hear -- Gov. William Weld of Massachusetts, another potential candidate. Welch, a former Bible salesman, answers with pity. "Bill Weld, bless his heart, he has no idea what it takes to do fund- raising." The conversation moves on to Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a more obvious rival and no one's idea of a financial naif. "Here's what I think," Welch says. "I think north of Kentucky he'll have a hard time."
The men parry for a minute or two and then Welch moves in for the kill, with an expenditure of tense, coiled energy. "We really want you, Peter," he says, falling forward in his turquoise chair. His knee meets the ground and his shoulder hits his desk, flagpole at Iwo Jima style. 
 "You want to help with the New York dinner?" he asks. "We're about to go to press with the invitations."
But the lobbyist will not be lobbied. "I don't need to be a part of that," he barks, without a trace of softening apology.
Rejection is flooding through Welch's phone, but it does not register on his face. Honeysuckle sweet, he asks about the man's wife by name and then offers a cheerful goodbye. Momentarily reflective, Welch wonders whether his quarry has secretly committed elsewhere; then two blinks later, he is back on the phone. "How're you, sir?" he shouts toward Texas.
This is the sound of the 1996 election -- earnest, coy, beggarly or bold, it is the sound of men (they are almost always men) asking for money.
Though the first vote is still 10 months away, fund-raising now constitutes a virtual First Primary. To be sure, early money has always helped: for the past four Presidential cycles, each party has nominated the candidate who raised the most money in the year before the election. But next year's compressed primary schedule raises the fund-raising pressure to a new level.
In the past, a candidate could hope that early success in Iowa or New Hampshire would open the financial faucets for months of subsequent campaigning. The survivors of the 1992 Iowa caucuses had 113 days to prepare for the California primary, which with nearly 20 percent of the delegates needed for the nomination twinkled at the end of the road like a pot of June gold. (Bill Clinton raised only $3 million in all of 1991.)
But next year's calendar apportions almost three-quarters of the delegates by the end of March; only 43 days separate the Iowa caucuses on Feb. 12 and the California primary on March 26. Once the flurry of contests begins, candidates will have little time either to raise new money or to spend it.
Prime television spots sell out 30 to 60 days in advance; it can take four or five months to assemble field staffs. Perhaps someone can still win on a shoestring, but it's no wonder that Welch says, "You better already have the money in the bank."
A lot of money. To reach his 1995 goal of $20 million, the amount most analysts think is needed, Alexander has to raise $77,000 each business day, or about $10,000 an hour. Such sums favor established figures like Gramm, Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, or perhaps Gov. Pete Wilson of California. But a surprising number of other prominent figures have looked at the financial demands and quit. They include Weld, Dan Quayle, Dick Cheney and Jack Kemp, who in stepping aside denounced the "grotesqueries" of Presidential fund-raising.
Grotesque or not, it certainly is a specialized sport, a subculture of little-known players with big egos, mixed motives and -- despite the public suspicion they arouse -- unmistakable pride in what they do. Personal wealth helps, but with individual contributions limited to $1,000, the size of their Rolodexes matters more. There are just a few hundred people in the Republican Party who can put together the gala high-dollar dinners that the candidates need, and among those, a handful like Welch stand out.
Unknown to the public, out of elective office for nearly a decade, Alexander has made it his business to meet them. He entered the money primary as something worse than a long shot, hoping to pull off a dozen dinners this March that might get people to take him seriously. The results say something about him, something about Welch and even more about the new rules of running for President.
It is a late afternoon in January, and a few dozen business executives gather in a private room at the Jefferson Hotel, a redoubt of old-world elegance a few blocks north of the White House. They are men, mainly, most in their 50's and 60's and most aligned with Dick Cheney, the former Defense Secretary, whose withdrawal has just left them politically orphaned. They snack on shrimp and then file into an anteroom to meet the slender man in a sober suit who seeks their support.
In another setting, Andrew Lamar Alexander Jr. would be boasting an impressive resume: a two-term Governor; former president of the University of Tennessee; George Bush's second Education Secretary; a millionaire lawyer-businessman. Here, however, he is conscious of his own obscurity and he quotes an Australian proverb about former officeholders like himself: "Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow." He predicts that the speech he's scheduled to give will sink to "page 435 of some newspaper" and adds, "I may be the first candidate to peak before anybody's heard of me."
The demands of self-deprecation thus satisfied, Alexander rails against the "arrogant empire of Washington, D.C.," and pledges to devolve power back to the states. Stressing that no one since John F. Kennedy has moved straight from the Senate to the White House, he trumpets his status as a former Governor. The uniqueness of this claim will disappears later in the spring, as Pete Wilson all but formally declares his candidacy. But for now, Alexander can argue that he alone has what the White House most needs: a beyond-the-Beltway soul. "We're going to have Alexander's band," he says, "and the best thing I can say is, 'Come on along.' "
On that folksy note, the meeting moves on to the real agenda: money. Alexander steps aside and now it is Welch who does the talking. He's after $5 million with the March dinners, including a Washington event that he hopes will bring in $500,000. Seeking salesmen, he offers titles. "Sign up to be a co-chair by selling 20 tickets," he says, "or a vice-chair by selling 10." Welch posts an attractive woman at each of the room's exits. "Nobody gets out without filling out one of those forms." It's a joke, sort of.
If Alexander's White House dreams prove more than a passing conceit, he will owe an incalculable debt to Welch, who is both the grand architect of the financial strategy and its master craftsman, presiding over everything from million-dollar dinners to 10-cent lapel pins. Working from an ever-present white three-ring binder, Welch tracks the progress of every ticket salesman, coast to coast.
After more than two decades of Republican fund-raising, Welch carries a mental map of political debts, business relationships, philanthropic connections, school ties, vanities, hopes and fears that can be converted into campaign contributions. "Ted is the No. 1 political fund-raiser in all history," says Howard Baker, the former Senate majority leader, whose own campaigns benefited from many millions of dollars generated by Welch's handwork.
His pastime is, in its way, a strangely apolitical pursuit. Though Welch claims to be "very conservative on fiscal issues and more progressive on social issues," issues seldom arise during his countless hours on the telephone. Taxes, spending, Government regulation -- the usual Republican complaints do not cross his lips. In response to a question, he even offers a kind word for the President he is trying to unseat. "I wouldn't characterize him as a disaster," he says of Clinton. "He's done some good."
So what does Ted Welch want? He has sunk years of his life into political fund-raising without a penny of pay. And while lesser figures have sailed the Caribbean wearing the title "Ambassador," Welch has never claimed a Federal appointment. Asked about his motivation, he resorts to existential terms; he is taking his own measure. "Instead of playing golf, I raise money," he says.
But if issues don't move Welch, his candidate does. He stares into the distance as he recounts the moment, a decade ago, that he encouraged Alexander to run. "I'd seen his focus," he says. "I'd seen his vision. I'd seen his ability to attract and manage people." This talk of epiphany sounds strange -- not even Alexander calls himself a charismatic figure. But Welch rolls on, remembering the breakfast they had at the Governor's mansion as Alexander began his second term.
"I said I'd like to assist him in any way I could, to get him elected President of this country," he says. "While that hasn't been on the front burner of my mind every day since then, I always knew it was only a matter of time before he'd run for President."
What was Alexander's response?
"After you get to know Lamar, you can tell when he's pleased with a notion," Welch says with a coy, satisfied smile. "And he was pleased with that one."
In time, they made some unusual plans.
Lamar Alexander had been dreaming of Bill Clinton. "Sometimes even I feel his pain," he says. "There he was, sitting all alone in the Oval Office, wearing his funny Indonesian shirt and singing this sad song." Long-faced, Alexander moves to the piano and croons the Eddy Arnold standard, "Make the World Go Away," with fanciful Clinton lyrics: "Ma-ake Newt Gingrich go a-way/Out of my li-ife forever. . . . " Two hundred couples in evening clothes applaud the joke.
It is early January and a hammy Alexander is thanking the people whose checks (of $10,000 and up) financed the unusual organization that prepared his Presidential bid -- a nonprofit corporation called the Republican Exchange Satellite Network. Other gestating candidates have typically used political action committees to build staff and meet donors. Alexander created his own monthly television show, beaming himself by satellite into the homes of party workers.
As television, "The Republican Neighborhood Meetings" were certainly no threat to "Nightline." The first broadcast was knocked from the air by a thunderstorm and another ended 15 minutes early. Even the 19th and final show, taped in January, found Alexander unsure when to smile or where to find the camera. "One-eight-hundred, seven-seven-two, seven-three, seven-six," he sang, in the cadence of a toaster salesman. "Our phone lines are all lit up!"
But as politics, the satellite network was a shrewd move. It bolstered his name recognition among the party faithful. It allowed him to build a staff that included a full-time organizer in Iowa. And it gave him two years to test and refine his anti-Washington message, with slogans like the anti-Congressional rant, "Cut their pay and send them home."
Alexander says he was trying to help the party rethink "what we're for," and the network even produced a slick brochure by that name. To the untrained eye, "What We're For" reads a lot like "What We're Against." It attacks unfinanced mandates, the Clinton health bill, high taxes and big Government.
No matter. For Alexander, the network was the latest move in a creative career that, depending on one's point of view, has shown a long streak of either resourcefulness or opportunism. In his first Governor's race, in 1974, he donned a business suit and lost to an opponent who cast him as a drab Nashville lawyer. Four years later, he draped himself in a red plaid shirt, walked across the state and won.
In an earlier incarnation, Alexander showed all the signs of conventional Washington ambition. As a 20-something lawyer, he served as a junior Nixon White House aide. As Governor, he told The Nashville Banner that joining the United States Senate was his "lifetime ambition." Now he plays to the anti-Washington 90's by depicting his Senate rivals as compromised insiders and demanding the abolition of the Education Department, which only three years ago he happily ran.
Alexander grew up in the small town of Maryville, Tenn., where, he writes in his autobiography, the family "never had money to waste." His father left his job as a school principal to work as a safety officer in a nearby Alcoa plant because it paid better. His strong-willed mother, Floreine, ran a kindergarten from the family's backyard.
A talented student and pianist, Alexander went to Vanderbilt as an undergraduate and New York University for law school, then clerked in New Orleans for the Federal Court of Appeals judge John Minor Wisdom, noted as a champion of civil rights. Though Alexander is now reinventing himself as a right-leaning conservative, in his eight years as Governor he was known for his middle-of-the road instincts.
Watching Alexander at work invites the suspicion that, somewhere between the dark suit and the plaid shirt, there's a chip on his shoulder. In his standard stump speech, he complains that The New York Times once called him "lower-middle class." (In fact, the paper described him as "solidly middle-class," noting that he had spun a myth of hillbilly roots.) His favorite anti-Washington peroration, launched on behalf of local control, is "We're not too stupid to know what to do!"
Working a breakfast in Orlando, Fla., a few days before the Super Bowl, Alexander tells a crowd that he and Paul Tagliabue, the N.F.L. commissioner, were "Rhodes Scholar rejects together." But the attempted self-deprecation begins to clank. "In their wisdom," he continues, "they thought neither of us would amount to anything."
In Presidential terms, many of the party's top fund-raisers thought the same. But the satellite network helped modify that. Its biggest benefit was its least obvious: it gave Alexander two years to romance the party's top donors, under optimal circumstances. As a formal candidate, he would have been just another politician with his hand stuck out; as a party builder, he stepped through the door in statesmanlike guise. He came away with $5.5 million, essentially to promote himself, and while that money cannot be transferred to a Presidential campaign, the loyalties of the donors can.
Alexander describes the mechanics with surprising candor. "I realized that making repeated visits to New York and California and Texas and all around the country, meeting with people who traditionally supported the Republican Party financially, would make a great deal of difference to me," he says. "That formed relationships and gave people who didn't know me a chance to get to know me.
"Of all the things it did for me, I'd say it was probably the financial network that was most important. It turned out to be a lot better than a PAC."
Political action committees, after all, must abide by laws that limit donations to $5,000 and demand public disclosure. As a nonprofit corporation, the network could accept unlimited sums and withhold its donors' identities. About 200 people gave $10,000 or more and 13 of them gave $100,000, according to Agnes Warfield, a fund-raiser who followed Alexander from the Education Department to the satellite network to the campaign. Large donations, secret donors: the network perpetuated in perfectly legal fashion the very practices that the post-Watergate campaign reform laws were designed to extinguish. (See "Illusory Limits" at left.)
Still, the question arises: Why would anyone want to give an unemployed politician a $10,000 check? Welch and Alexander kicked things off with their own donations, then organized a 1993 meeting with about a dozen other old Alexander hands, including his former law partner and members of his state cabinet. With about half the money coming from corporations and three-quarters from Tennesee, Welch says he raised nearly $1.5 million in 1993.
Then the effort went national. Alexander invited scores of the party elite to weekends at Blackberry Farms, a resort in the foothills of the Smoky Mountains. He met dozens of others through five getting-to-know-you dinners sponsored by his old boss, Howard Baker. With Alexander claiming no pay from the network, Baker also brought him into his law firm at a salary of more than $300,000 a year, in exchange for duties that could charitably be described as light. Then again, Alexander has long shown a penchant for mixing politics and personal profit, benefiting even as Governor from lucrative, low-risk investments with the help of Baker and other friends. When the Senate scrutinized his suitability as Education Secretary, the hearings focused not just on educational philosophy but also on a history of stock deals and low-interest loans.
Freed from financial worry, Alexander made good use of the time. He met Sam Bamieh at a White House reception in the last weeks of the Bush Administration. A California investor, Bamieh was one of Pete Wilson's most important fund-raisers, pulling together more than $1 million with a single dinner in his home. "I said, 'Lamar, what are you going to be doing, ' " Bamieh recalls. "He answered, 'I'm going to be President.' "
Nine months later, Alexander was sitting in Bamieh's office, pitching the network. Bamieh says he wrote a $10,000 check -- because "I have a deep passion for education" -- but warned Alexander that when the campaign arrived, his loyalties might rest elsewhere. Alexander kept up with calls and visits and even arranged a broadcast from the developer's home, featuring Milton Friedman, the Nobel-winning economist. Bamieh paid for the show with a $50,000 check; his contributions eventually totaled $100,000. When Bamieh had eye surgery last fall in London, Alexander offered to come visit on his way to the Middle East. Bamieh says that sealed it: though Wilson is now preparing his own race, Bamieh is raising money for Alexander.
A former neighbor from Maryville, John Thornton, proved a less complicated sell. Though their parents were friends, Thornton, at 41, is 13 years younger than Alexander and the two were scarcely acquainted. They ran into each other at a fund-raising dinner for the state party in 1993. As it happened, Thornton had just sold the rug company he founded 10 years earlier with a life savings of $20,000. He pocketed $27 million.
Thornton used part of the windfall to buy a "a 33-foot-long, super-duper, stretch Lincoln limousine," painting it "big orange" to honor the University of Tennessee Volunteers. Then he drove 11 days cross-country to the football season opener at U.C.L.A. "Rented Elvis costumes and walked down the strip in Las Vegas," he says. "Had a helluva time."
Alexander invited him to a weekend at Blackberry Farms, where he recited his accomplishments as a business-friendly Governor. Thornton liked what he heard: "I just got out the checkbook and wrote him a check for $100,000. Happy to do it, too."
Perhaps no network find has been as valuable as Carl Bouckaert, a carpet magnate from Dalton, Ga., According to Warfield, Bouckaert gave $100,000 of his own money and helped raise $800,000 more. And when Alexander unveiled the 17 members of his Presidential finance team in February, Bouckaert was among them. So were six of the party's last eight finance chairmen. (Four of them, including Welch, live in Nashville.)
So was Dick Cheney's main fund-raiser.
And Jack Kemp's.
And, in Bamieh, one of Pete Wilson's.
What brings this kind of lineup to a long shot? Using his own obscurity to his advantage, Alexander offers the kind of personalized attention that unattached money men could not expect in the more crowded camps of Gramm and Dole. "Lamar is the only guy who tells you what he's doing," Bamieh says. "He doesn't just say, 'Give me the money.' "
Ted Welch is atop his Nashville tower, setting the goal for a dinner in Tennessee's rural First Congressional District, a sum so high the gasps come through the other end of the receiver: $250,000!
"That'll mean blitzing it," Welch agrees. But he makes it known that the district's most powerful politician, Representative Jimmy Quillen, is counting on it. "I don't know how it all happened, I just know that Jimmy Quillen would like very much for you two to be the wagon masters up there," he says. "Quillen is behind us 100 percent."
Welch offers sympathy: "I know that means turning over an awful lotta rocks." He offers tips: try for $2,000 a couple, but admit spouses free if necessary. He concludes with a warning: "There can't be no factions."
And he's onto his next phone call, about four minutes later. This one is to Warfield, the campaign's senior paid fund-raiser. "The 250 scares the life out of them," he laughs. But this call, as always, has a purpose: to schedule a time for Alexander to meet with the First District's sales team.
Welch then turns his attention to the dinner planned in Denver. The chairman is confident but Welch is not. "It's taken care of," assures a voice on the other end of the line. That means invitations are in the mail. But Welch wants a traditional dinner organization; that means salesmen whose progress he can track. Ten seconds after hanging up, he is on the phone with a West Coast consultant, explaining that the Denver man is "of the mistaken notion that he can send out 250 invitations and get 175 checks." The consultant vows to straighten things out.
So it goes, throughout the day. He strokes. ("I didn't want anything in the world but to thank you," he tells Atlanta.) He gripes. ("The damn dinner'll be over before he gets his committee together," he says to another southern city.) He prospects. ("The Korean community -- do you have an entree?" he asks New York.) He cajoles. (Selling one table "doesn't mean you're married to us!" he tells a Mississippi man.)
In an aside to Warfield, he explains the nature of the game. "What you do is push people," he says, "without their knowing they're being pushed."
Like a striking number of the people he is pushing, Welch is a self-made man, whose up-from-nothing story stands in contrast to his party's born-on-third-base image. He was born 61 years ago in tiny Parsons, Tenn., where his father was a teacher, part-time farmer and failed shopkeeper. "We grew up poor, but not without spirit," he says.
Biographical inquiries yield other, similarly spare comments. Though Ted Welch loves to talk about Lamar Alexander, he does not like to talk about Ted Welch. His long, wary silences make the air feel like it is about to shatter.
Still, the basics emerge. A 5-foot-7-inch, 150-pound wingback, Welch escaped to the University of Tennessee at Martin on a football scholarship. He spent his first summer vacation working the wheat harvest through Kansas. He spent the next one in Tarentum, Pa., with the Southwestern Publishing Company. As a door-to-door salesman of dictionaries and Bibles, Welch outperformed the hundreds of other young men who fan out each year across the South. He had found his vocation.
Joining Southwestern upon graduation, Welch eventually borrowed enough money to buy part of the company, which was sold to the Times-Mirror corporation in 1968. Among his subsequent investments are magazines (Business Nashville and Nashville Life), restaurants (L & N Seafood and Ruby Tuesday's, both of which he has now sold) and, most important, real estate. His holdings include half of the Tower, the 31-story office building adjacent to the Nashville Convention Center.
Welch entered politics in 1970 when his fund-raising helped a Memphis dentist named Winfield Dunn become the state's first Republican Governor in a half-century. He followed Dunn into office as Finance Commissioner, but fund-raising, not administration, proved his passion. When a former Tennessee Senator, Bill Brock, moved to Washington in 1977 to lead the Republican National Committee, he brought in Welch as the party's finance chairman. Welch even met his wife through fund-raising. As the new dean of the Vanderbilt University School of Nursing, Colleen Conway made Welch her first development call. He wrote her a $10,000 check, called her for dinner two weeks later and married her 19 weeks after that.
At the committee, Welch's first move was to give the party $10,000, making himself a Republican "Eagle." Then he persuaded 200 others to do the same. Welch went on to raise Presidential money for Howard Baker, Ronald Reagan and George Bush and he developed a specialty in "soft money" donations, made nominally to the party, not the candidate, and thus exempt from the $1,000 cap on direct contributions.
What makes him good? "One is believing in what you do," he says. "The other is having the courage to ask for the money.
"People don't like the rejection. It's hard -- and you get a lot of it."
This day, rejection is not the problem. The campaign has just landed Larry Bathgate, the New Jersey real-estate lawyer who had been lining up support for Kemp. A former party finance chairman, Bathgate is a proven producer. The problem is what to call him.
Campaign workers are drafting a news release, but Welch is supplying the worry. "He'll be joining our team at the highest level," Welch says, but doubt creeps in. Make that "at a very high level," he says. No, "a high level." The conversation continues on and off for an hour or so, and when the release goes out, Bathgate is upgraded once again to "the highest level."
Are titles important? "Hell, yes!" Welch responds, suddenly animated. "You notice I don't call myself chairman. A lot of people, if they can't be No. 1, they don't want to work with anybody else."
Welch is so sensitive to the potential for conflict that he even distributes a printed parable to deal with it, an elaborate story of honking geese. He tells the other fund-raisers that geese get "at least 71 percent more flying range" by staying in formation. When one is sick or shot, others fall back to help, and while honking can spur the lead goose on, "we need to be careful what we say when we honk from behind." At least one of the co-chairmen was so impressed that he took the page home to show his teen-age daughters.
Welch returns to the phone, on the day of the Bathgate coup, to plot the recruitment of a former Bush supporter. "He's the one that wanted an ambassadorship," he tells Warfield in a listen-to-this-one tone. "They were sending him to a little country I'd never heard of.
"They showed him a picture of the residence and it was just beautiful. Then he got over there and it was the wrong one! He stayed about a year, then came back home."
Warfield, on the other end of the phone, is joking about how the news release will read. "Yes," Welch laughs. "At the highest level!"
WHEN ALEXANDER TALKS about the importance of money, he is talking the language of his rival, Senator Gramm. No one has done more to conflate cash with credibility, and he has done so for a simple reason -- cash is what he has got. Gramm transferred $5 million from a Senate campaign fund and says he raised $8.5 million more in the first quarter. It remains to be seen whether the money will bring the votes Gramm says it will; in 1980, another Texan, John Connally, raised almost $10 million but won just a single delegate. Still, for years Gramm has been banking on the bank.
He started in 1991 with the conquest of a fund-raising fiefdom called the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which helps finance the party's senate campaigns. Winning an unprecedented second term as chairman, Gramm raised more than $120 million over the four years. Packing himself off to hundreds of fund-raising events, Gramm cultivated countless new networks for himself. He says he held 40 functions just for Mike DeWine of Ohio. Now DeWine is in the Senate and Gramm is on a first-name basis with dozens of major donors in a strategically pivotal state.
Gramm has caused a quiet stir by leaving the post with another precious possession: the committee's list of direct-mail donors. Or most of it, anyway. Past chairmen typically kept the names of a few thousand major contributors; Gramm kept the name of anyone who responded to a letter he signed.
"We were able to take people who contributed over the Senator's signature," says Carla Eudy, his finance director. Since the committee mails 20 million letters a year and the chairman signs more than 90 percent of them, that's a lot of names -- as many as 400,000 by some estimates. Critics say Gramm broke past practice by departing with a list that others consider party property. It would easily cost $4 million to build such a list from scratch.
Gramm is quick to acknowledge that he sought the committee post with a Presidential race in mind. "Nobody can say I didn't do a good job for the committee," Gramm says, "but obviously I got more out of it than saddle sores."
Gramm has condensed his financial pitch into a slide show that has become notorious in fund-raising circles. He professes to have met precisely 164,454 potential donors since 1991 and to have kept notes on every one. The faces of Mr. and Mrs. Jack Barnette of Marietta, Ga., light up the room, offering a detailed example. Gramm has their home phone, work phone, car phone and fax numbers; their address; their secretary's name and their history of support. ("PG flew in his plane to Portsmouth, N.H., 9-15-93.") Gramm presented the show to Phil Handy, an Orlando, Fla., businessman, then called him a few days later to thank him for signing up. But Handy had done no such thing. Now raising money for Alexander, he calls the Gramm machine "Orwellian."
It's hard to know what adjective describes the February dinner Gramm throws at the Dallas Convention Center -- one he dubs the most lucrative in the history of Presidential politics. Everything seems larger than life: limousines the size of Greyhound buses, 20-foot screens to project his face. Even the name-dropping comes in outsize, Texas proportions.
"I'm Candace Tyson. I handle billion-dollar lawsuits," volunteers an excited woman, who introduces herself as the county's first female Republican judge. Standing in a sea of $10,000 tables, she offers a quick tour. There's Norman Brinker ("he's Steak and Ale"), there's Harold Simmons ("a big entrepreneur") and there, too, is Caroline Rose Hunt ("one of the Hunt family").
Then here, heading for the coffee bar, is Don White, the senator's half-brother and the full-time fund-raiser on Gramm's Senate staff. Tyson plants a kiss on his cheek and moves the man to rhyme. "I've said many times: 'Candy's dandy, but liquor's quicker,' " White says. The judge responds jokingly, in a stage whisper: "He's the money man, the bag man." The money man asks her to lunch, but she leaves him with a lipstick tattoo and a promise to call.
On stage, Gramm proclaims financial triumph. While Alexander treats money like sex -- something to take care of behind closed doors and refer to with discretion -- Gramm savors the details. "I know that people do not call you up and ask if they can give money," he says. "People do not come and write checks and stick them in the drawer of your desk."
He thanks the crowd "for making all those calls."
For "knocking on all those doors."
For "using up all those i.o.u.'s."
"Thanks to you, I have the most reliable friend that you can have in American politics," he says, "and that is ready money."
Bob Dole doesn't talk that way, but then again, he doesn't have to. As the party's Senate leader and a man mounting his third national campaign, Dole is dealing from a position of strength. In the last election cycle, his PAC, Campaign America, raised $6 million through a network that remains at his fingertips. With a donor list of more than 500,000 names, he plans to raise as much as 30 percent of his money through direct mail. That frees up time from the dinner circuit, a luxury that could prove especially advantageous early next year, when every hour of candidate time grows precious.
Alexander got a taste of Dole's strength in trying to sell tickets to his Washington dinner, which fell more than $100,000 short of its goal. "We just ran into a brick wall," says an Alexander aide. "Anybody who has legislation on the Hill doesn't want to do anything that will hurt their chances."
Plus Dole already has much of what Alexander and Gramm hope to buy: name recognition. "We don't have to spend money to get out and acquaint people with who Bob Dole is," says John Moran, his finance chairman. "There's no real pressure being felt over here."
The pressure is felt out there -- out on the money trail, among people reluctant to bet against the front-runner. It is being felt on this February night by John Price, a Salt Lake City developer, who repairs to the bar after a gathering in Miami of hundreds of Republican fund-raisers. A substantial donor to Alexander's satellite network, he has agreed to help sponsor a Utah dinner with a goal of $150,000. But now he's having second thoughts.
"It's a tough decision," he says, his head turning in search of eavesdroppers. On the one hand, "Lamar personally calls and stays in touch with me," he says. But "there are other people saying: 'Do these events, help out Lamar, but stay somewhat neutral.' " Price pauses, looks around and whispers. "I don't know how to say it: 'Don't turn your back on Bob Dole, that's what they're saying.' "
All this anxiety for a mere $150,000! "I would write him a check for that if I could -- it's not much," says Price, who arrived in the United States as a child refugee from Nazi Germany and built an empire of shopping centers throughout the West.
On a car phone a month later, Price offers an update: the Alexander dinner underperforms, raising just $70,000, and he agrees to lend Dole a hand.
Alexander suffered another setback in late March, when Pete Wilson robbed him of his outside-Washington franchise by setting up an exploratory committee. After raising $28 million for his 1994 Governor's race, Wilson seems to have the requisite fund-raising credentials. The Alexander people are quick to note, dismissively, that California law allowed unlimited gifts from individuals and corporations; Bamieh alone gave $259,000. But Wilson also raised impressive sums in his '82 and '88 Senate campaigns ($7 and $12 million respectively) while operating under the $1,000 per-person limit and the mammoth state gives him a coveted base.
Jack Kemp calls it all revolting. It is late January and he is sitting in a conference room at his Washington office, announcing that he will not announce. "There are a lot of grotesqueries, not least of which is the fund-raising side of it," he says. He objects to "traveling the country in this circuit, in that element.
"The fund-raising overwhelms the ideas."
It is a classic Kemp performance -- engrossing, eccentric, self-serving and, in a way, endearing. Referring to himself in the third person, he complains that on the fund-raising circuit he couldn't just "be Kemp being Kemp." In renouncing the race, he vows to spend his time instead "worrying about how to save the Mexican peso."
Possibly not even Kemp himself knows whether fund-raising really drove him from the race. Perhaps he is simply making too much money (aides say his speeches will bring in about $1 million this year). Perhaps he does not want reporters combing through his personal and professional life.
Sometimes Kemp says he couldn't have raised the money had he tried. Businessmen bristled at his refusal to back the balanced-budget amendment. Californians "shut off my fund-raising" for criticizing the anti-immigration measure, Proposition 187. "I don't want to be in a party that's all white," he says.
At other times, Kemp says he simply didn't want to make the effort, especially after Bathgate, his would-be finance chairman, penciled in 241 fund-raising events for 1995. "I didn't want to spend the time to go where you have to go, do what you have to do, say what you have to say," he says.
But whether the money forced him out or he voluntarily withdrew, Kemp is instructive as a kind of anti-Alexander. Alexander, having no natural base to launch a $20 million drive, willed one into being, making himself plausible by dint of determination.
Kemp had fame, but campaign fortune would not follow.
"I don't like asking for money," he says.
"I do not like asking for money."
"I don't even like myself when I'm asking for money."
Like too much time in the desert, a few months on the money trail produces a mirage. Where there once was America with its K Marts and trailer parks and squalid ghettos, there are now just shimmering images of wealth -- fabulous, ubiquitous wealth. Money, money -- it seems to be everywhere. It's at the Nashville dinner that the horse breeder must leave because his pilot has spotted a front moving in. It's in long orange limousines. It's in as unlikely a spot as the Mountain City Club in Chattanooga, a tired place with plain walls and heavily sauced food. But even here, there is a fortune at every table: offspring of the families that produce Little Debbie snack cakes and Magic Chef appliances, Brock Candy and Krystal hamburgers.
And this is mere Chattanooga. Out on the fund-raising circuit, the Apostle John seems to have it all wrong -- it is the rich who will be here always, dining out at $1,000 a plate. No wonder what thought comes to Alexander's mind when, on a swing through Florida, he spots a man on crutches. "You don't play polo do you?" he says. "I've run into two people lately who've hurt themselves badly playing polo."
A few weeks later, he is in Aspen. It is President's Day weekend and Alexander is plying his outsider message from a suite at the Ritz-Carlton, with peach-colored walls and a glorious mountain view.
The occasion is a retreat for Team 100, the exclusive Republican club whose members must pass only one admissions test: write the party a check for $100,000. They are clomping about in ski boots, talking politics and snow, and Alexander is on their trail.
He works a reception, speaks at a dinner and holds two days of private meetings. Alexander's patron for the weekend is Mel Sembler, a shopping center developer from St. Petersburg, Fla., who would have been Cheney's main money man. An effusive, charming man, silver-haired and jowly, he invites me to watch him at work but the authorities at Team 100 are quick to say no. "They know how it's going to look," an Alexander aide explains. "A bunch of rich people romping in the snow, deciding who should be President."
There is something irresistibly likable about Mel Sembler. He could star in a comic novel about Republican fund-raising; call it "Men Who Give and the Politicians Who Love Them." The stereotype is of hard men in back rooms, but Sembler is an ingenuous, almost innocent figure. Recognized from the podium at a fund-raising dinner, he cocks his fist into a pistol, pulls the trigger and winks. When I visit his Florida office, he makes no pretense of modesty but whisks me straight to the framed photo where he stands between Presidents Reagan and Bush. "This is what I call my power picture," he says. "Standing between two of my friends there. Exhilarating!"
Sembler has cuff links from George Bush and ceramic knickknacks, High Holiday wishes and pens -- "five books of this stuff!" He raised millions in the 1988 campaign, working, he says, "at the highest level." Bush responded by sending him to Australia and Sembler still answers to "Mr. Ambassador." His wife, Betty, has a better title. Greeting me in Aspen with a hug, she rehearses a favorite joke. "Call me Ambassador-able," she says.
Sembler knows that fund-raisers are a suspect class and he resents it. The son of a Russian immigrant (who eked out a living as a prize fighter), Sembler made his millions on his own. He gives to politicians but also to colleges, hospitals and drug-treatment programs. When Bush named him Ambassador, Garry Trudeau responded with a biting caricature in his "Doonesbury" cartoon strip. "I paid for this ambassadorship fair and square," the Sembler-like figure says at an auction. Mocking the mockers, Sembler had the panels framed and hung above his toilet. But the wound still seems fresh. "We always get painted in ugly pictures because we touch the money," he says.
Alexander courted him for years. When Sembler was sent to Australia, Alexander forwarded an inscribed copy of a memoir of Australia he had written after a six-month family vacation there. As Education Secretary, he found occasion to visit Sembler in Canberra and he kept up the romance with frequent calls upon Sembler's return. When Cheney dropped from the race, Sembler's phone rang within the hour. It was Alexander, asking for his support. "Lamar's got a lot of humanistics about him," Sembler says.
The Aspen reception proceeds smoothly, but dinner proves problematic. The Team 100 crowd, weary from the day's skiing, straggles off even as Alexander hits the piano for a reprise of "Make Newt Gingrich Go Away." Sembler says the setup was all wrong. "It should have been, 'Hi folks,' one song, boom-boom, out of there," he says. "The guy next to me fell asleep."
Sembler is cheerier the following evening as he emerges from the day of small sessions in his suite. Encountering the Team 100 members one at a time, he says Alexander won three more professions of support and one firm commitment: an Orlando man who pledges to host a $100,000 event in his home. "Lamar was smart enough to be here and make himself available," Sembler says. "He's not a sprinter. He's a distance runner." Then he dons a cowboy hat and escorts Ambassador-able to the evening's event, a Team 100 hoedown.
In the bar down the block, an unlikely conversation unfolds: a money man mocks the money men. Why would anyone give $100,000 to consort with politicians? "It's like smelling jockstraps, being around Michael Jordan," he says. "It's to be affiliated with power."
Harsh words, but they're coming from Phil Handy -- Alexander's state chairman in Florida. He's not yet Team 100 rich but, at age 50, he's on his way. "I think there's a certain point in a business career where business itself is no longer enough," he says. "The question is: What is it after that that matters? Making another $1 million, or another $10 million, building another shopping center isn't enough."
Sipping a microbrewed ale and quoting Nietzsche and Dan Quayle, Handy is on a roll. "Fundamentally," he says, "I don't think anybody gives for another's benefit; you do it to solve some problem that's inside. You can call it selfish, but I think it results in an extraordinary amount of generosity. I don't think it attributes bad motives to people."
It all starts to pay off in March. Dinner is served and the cash begins to flow: $363,000 out of tiny Dalton, Ga., and $235,000 a night later in Jackson, Miss. At $400,000, Chattanooga falls far short of its $750,000 goal. But Memphis weighs in at $750,000 and a quick hop through Los Angeles and San Francisco adds $160,000 more. An end-of-the-month swing up the Eastern Seaboard, Atlanta-Baltimore-Washington-New York, adds in excess of a million more.
Alexander may never reach his 1995 goal of $20 million -- the last dollars are the hardest. But he does manage a $5 million March. And it all begins in Nashville, with the largest fund-raising dinner in Tennessee history, a $2.2 million extravaganza at the Opryland Hotel.
In a few hours, there will be balloons, senators and country music stars. Two thousand beef fillets will swim forth in crab-meat bearnaise sauce and a white-chocolate piano will decorate every dessert plate. Ted Welch will shout "Attention!" from the stage and insist that everyone sell four tickets to a subsequent event.
So it's an understandably proud candidate who steps before the cameras at a midafternoon news conference to flex his financial muscles. "Right now, there are only three candidates who can raise the $20 million that's needed," Alexander says, and he is claiming to be one of them. (Wilson's entry, by most accounts, would add a fourth.)
The problem is the timing. His day of glory comes as Congressional Republicans vote to cut food stamps and to end Federal support of school lunches. Poor Lamar. He throws a $2 million dinner and all the local press wants to talk about is nutrition for the needy!
He tries to cast aside the questions. "They're not talking about cuts," he says, to skeptical stares.
He tries again. "We're not too stupid to know what to do in Tennessee about school lunches!"
A few months earlier, Alexander had complained that he would be "spending all my time with people who can afford to give $500 or $1,000," which, he added, "isn't a good way to prepare yourself for President." Now he goes as far as to call the arriving army of surgeons, lawyers and business barons "a fairly representative group of people."
But this assertion is so absurd that even he doesn't stick by it. He finally just throws in the towel.
"The system is not a good system, but I'm not complaining about it," he says. Away from the microphones, he adds: "The irony of it is, it's run off most of the people that it would have been most difficult for me to beat."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES LOBBYING (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; ALEXANDER, LAMAR; WELCH, TED LAMAR ALEXANDER (73%); PHIL GRAMM (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



359 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: WORD & IMAGE;
The Story of Dow

BYLINE: By MAX FRANKEL 

 BODY:
I HAVE BECOME ADDICTED TO THE serialized fiction that serious newspapers tuck away back among the stock tables. The plot of the daily "Market Story" beats any TV soap. It's a Freudian drama that tracks the moment-by-moment anxieties of a highly neurotic character named Dow. His feverish ups and downs are not only recounted with medical precision but also interpreted with obvious poetic license by faceless Traders, Investors and Analysts. They are more skilled than any Euripidean chorus at finding heavenly explanations for every twist of fortune.
Synopses don't do justice to the excitement of every day's plot turns. But I think I've caught the essence of the drama by tracking the tale from New Year's Day to the Ides of March. 
 Take the month of January. When Dow (which is short for the Dow Jones average of industrial stocks but also a metaphor for the entire market) begins the year by improving from a value of 3,834 to 3,857, the Analysts sing the praises of a "stronger dollar" and think long-term interest rates bring "reasons to be less concerned about inflation." O.K. But two days later, when December is revealed to have produced the lowest unemployment rate in four years, the Analysts fear new "inflationary pressures" and yet the Dow index climbs anyway, to 3,867. That happens, Analysts decide, because of the "flattening" of the interest-rate "yield curve." Analysts also call the news about Mexico's falling peso upsetting, but then again, they think that "Latin America's troubles may spell good news for American stocks." Got it.
Mercifully, that's the last we ever hear of yield curves. By mid-January, with the Dow rising up to 3,908, the Analysts again credit some news about December, but this time it's the bad news of an "unanticipated slump" of one-tenth of 1 percent in retail sales. That makes them optimistic about inflation again and propels the Dow index even higher, to 3,932. Traders "hope that the Federal Reserve would moderate or even forgo an expected increase in interest rates."
Just then, "inflationary pressures" reappear, yet the market holds steady anyway. Why, dear Analysts? Because of "the prospect of favorable corporate earnings this month." But when the index then drops 46 points the next day, to 3,882, the Analysts forget about profits and shift to watching the dollar -- it's falling in value against the mark. A further decline, to 3,869, is pinned on inflation again, but come to think of it, maybe the blame belongs to "Double Witching," the dreaded expirations of options that automatically foster computer-guided trades.
We come now to an interesting week in which the Dow index leaps high and low throughout each day but beds down each night in just about the same place as the night before. That condition, alternately called volatility and stability, evokes a delicious range of explanations. Analysts invoke "evidence of an economy that is not cooling as fast as had been thought." They point to Congress's dithering about the Mexico aid package. And there's the Kobe earthquake: it has "undermined the Japanese market." Although there exists a consensus that the Fed will again raise interest rates at month's end, Analysts deplore the "ambiguity" of Fed statements about whether that will be the year's last increase.
In short, nothing that the Analysts said could prepare me for Jan. 31, when the market awoke with what they decide is a "shudder" at the headlong plunge by Mexico's peso. Dow plummets to 3,832 -- the very point from which it started at New Year's.
So it goes also through February, each tick evoking a new analytical tack. Dow recovers and Analysts attribute the resurgence to the economy's slowdown; it goes higher still and they attribute it to the economy's healthy growth and high corporate profits. They spend another month worrying about Dow's decline if the Fed again raises interest rates, but when the Fed does indeed raise them, the Dow nonetheless leaps past 4,000 and on to 4,049 at the Ides of March.
WHAT PROMPTS THESE FICTIONS? WHY ON earth do otherwise sober publications and broadcast media indulge these tall tales by Analysts presuming to explain more than 300 million trades a day? Why belabor the artificial drama of the Dow, which could be rendered in a simple number, like yesterday's humidity? And why ascribe human form to the market, as if it could have a single emotion, like "confidence" in the dollar or a "lack of faith" in Congress?
Some market influences are indeed discernible. If on any one day investors shift more money into stock purchases than they are taking out from sales, they are probably bidding up the value of an index that fairly summarizes stock prices. And if some other day interest rates in Germany are more attractive than in America, more money may indeed be shifted across the Atlantic and cause the stock index to fall. But millions of subjective judgments are also at work at every moment. Some traders are buying and selling in quick bursts for minute gain while others buy and sell from long-term considerations that may reflect their private needs even more than the conditions of the public companies whose stock they trade. Like the butterfly that flaps its wings in China and ultimately causes a ripple of wind in Chicago, any one of a zillion transactions anywhere can combine with others to move the market index up or down or not at all.
The Analysts who presume to explain the moods and moves of these zillions (many of whom are in any case looking to outguess each other's moods and moves) are spinning fairy tales. The media embrace them because they've learned that dramatic narratives, not raw numbers, are their stock in trade. What fun is the game's final score if we can't read about villains and heroes? What's so interesting about yesterday's temperature if we can't read about stalled cars on icy roads and brutal landlords who failed to turn on the heat?
The daily market drama is particularly appealing because, like the soaps or the newspaper yarns that finally added up to Charles Dickens's novels, it provides a running story with familiar characters. Inflation, I.B.M., the Fed and the peso -- they need no daily introductions. Moreover, the adventures of the market stir the blood of stockholders; it's a story that plays on their hopes and fears and keeps them engaged, maybe longer in the paper even than in the market. And like any good myth, it's a story that purports to demystify the causes and motives of outrageous fortune. It makes fortune bearable.
So weep not for the missing astrology column in your favorite newspaper. You can divine the heavenly signs each day, in the Story of Dow.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); YIELD CURVE (87%); US DOLLAR (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BONDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



360 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2685 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
The Great Ballet Partnerships Are All but Gone

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
"Frightened?"
"Not with you, mate."
A spot of color burned on his cheeks. I nuzzled against him. He held me silently, for some seconds. Then I broke away. The overture was beginning."
From "Lynn: An Autobiography," by Lynn Seymour 
 TWO DANCERS STAND CLOSE IN THE DARK wings of a stage, waiting for the moment they will rush together out into the light as ballet lovers. In those few seconds before their entrance, they are bonded in a way known to few other mortals. They know each other's bodies and minds as intimately and instinctually as real-life lovers. But theirs is an intimacy born of dancing. They are that rare and fragile thing, a great ballet partnership.
Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev once waited together in the wings at the Metropolitan Opera House, their presence, when visible at last, drawing wild cheers even before a foot was pointed. Across the plaza at the New York State Theater, the cool heat of Suzanne Farrell and Peter Martins made the stage George Balanchine's temple of the dance. But only their ghosts linger on in the theaters where American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet continue to perform.
The age of star pairings, which lent such glitter to 20th-century ballet, seems for the most part to be over. Today, ballet is a form of entertainment and a careerrather than the esoteric, perfumed art that once fostered the dance equivalents of Hepburn and Tracy or Lunt and Fontanne. Battalions of dancers have taken over for the chosen few of other eras. Choreography itself has become a star. And the pas de deux, once an exegesis on love and lovers' manners, is now performed as much for the sake of complexity or purely physical excitement. Yet the old idea of partnership is not entirely lost.
Alessandra Ferri and Julio Bocca come close to the ideal in our own time. Principal dancers with American Ballet Theater, they will open the company's season at the Metropolitan Opera House on April 24 in one of the supreme tests of a pairing, "Giselle" -- she as the innocent, doomed young peasant girl; he as the nobleman who betrays her love.
At City Ballet, the 14-year partnership of Heather Watts and Jock Soto ended last season, when Miss Watts left the company. But Mr. Soto, who will perform with City Ballet when its spring season opens on April 25 at the State Theater, remains an exemplar of effortless, selfless male partnering, squiring just about every ballerina in the troupe.
There has, however, never been a partnership quite like that of Dame Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev. In many ways they defined the phenomenon. Chosen by Fonteyn to dance with her soon after his arrival in the West in 1961, Nureyev revived her career and together they galvanized -- and nearly swamped -- the Royal Ballet. He was a fiery Soviet defector in his 20's. She was a radiantly ladylike English ballerina 19 years his senior. Huge stars in their own right before their pairing, Fonteyn and Nureyev were a box-office bonanza through the 1970's until just before Fonteyn's retirement from performing.
Their power lay not in the perfection of their technique but in the tension that existed between the sometimes steely, sometimes delicate restraint of a mature ballerina and the abandonment of a wild youth. They were the embodiment of the young girl and the pirate in the "Corsaire" pas de deux, one of their most popular showpieces.
To the death-defying acrobatics of some Soviet partnerships before them, when tiny, muscular ballerinas tore across the stage to leap into the arms of a distant, rock-steady partner, Fonteyn and Nureyev brought a suggestion of love. To the ethereal otherworldliness of Alicia Markova and Anton Dolin, English stars who had danced together almost as a single body from the 1930's on, Fonteyn and Nureyev added the spice of threatened ravishment.
The Royal Ballet and its other dancers paled in the hot reflected light of Fonteyn-Nureyev, as they were known. The mid-1960's were, in one of the mysteries of ballet history, a singular time for partnerships in the company. Lynn Seymour, dark and headstrong, performed with Christopher Gable, blond and charmingly boyish, an unruffled yang to her turbulent yin. Kenneth MacMillan had created "Romeo and Juliet" for them, though the premiere was given to Fonteyn and Nureyev, and Seymour and Gable epitomized MacMillan's ideal of dramatic ballet.
Antoinette Sibley and Anthony Dowell were "heavenly twins," as some English fans called them, dancers whose body lines seemed to merge, particularly in the exalted lyrical ballets of Frederick Ashton. But Fonteyn and Nureyev triumphed over all. They had no bounds, it seemed, giving all that they danced together the imprint of their personalities and their partnership.
The pairing of Fonteyn and Nureyev occurred at a peculiar juncture in ballet. Nureyev had almost singlehandedly reintroduced the idea of the exotic on a level almost comparable to that of the astonishing experiments of Serge Diaghilev and his Ballets Russes some half a century earlier. The exoticism personified by Nureyev was in part due to his allure as a foreigner and to his tantalizing sexual ambiguity, as well as to the way he wedded sexuality with dazzling pyrotechnics. Ballet was suddenly popular, made so in part by two performers who became household names.
 
 
Two Hearts Beating in Time
 What makes a great partnership? Two dancers' bodies may match in height, weight and heft. Their schooling and experience may be similar. They may both be passionate or chill. In the end, however, there must be that indefinable thing called chemistry. In motion together, two dancers may become a kind of third thing. They may have very little to do with each other once they leave the theater each night. But when they dance, it is, as Gerald Arpino, artistic director of the Joffrey Ballet, puts it, as if two human hearts beat in a single time.
After nine years of dancing together at Ballet Theater and throughout the world, Miss Ferri and Mr. Bocca have become friends offstage and soul mates when they dance. "It is a matter of being totally naked in front of another person, of letting everything show," Miss Ferri says. "The strengths, the weaknesses. You let yourself be taken into someone else's arms."
They have had their battles. They are frequently apart, dancing with companies on separate continents. But when they are together again, it is as if they are resuming an old friendship.
"It's always lovely," Miss Ferri says. "When we finish a performance we always look at each other and say, 'Thank you, Julio,' 'Thank you, Alex.' I have danced with other partners as strong and good as he. It is a matter of not being alone. I really dance for Julio, and he for me. You open up your heart. Dancing for him, I dance for everybody. I'm not just showing off."
Good partners also tend to have a shared sensitivity to music; each dancer then hears the music in the same way. Kevin McKenzie, an exceptional partner who now directs Ballet Theater, says another ingredient is a willingness to settle into a relationship somewhere between complementing and competing with each other. And dancers must trust each other.
"Otherwise," says Damian Woetzel, a principal with the City Ballet, "it's a complicated game of chicken."
Many of ballet's famed pairings have consisted of an older woman and a younger man, with the woman guiding the man to anticipate what she needs from him.
"Partners are sometimes nervous when they're new," says Kyra Nichols, a principal who has danced with many men over her 21-year career with City Ballet. Sometimes, Miss Nichols adds, she is assigned to dance with a new man in order to guide him through one of the company's ultimate tests of sang-froid, George Balanchine's "Theme and Variations."
"When a partner gets nervous," she says, "his arms don't function. You're kind of fighting with him. But usually I can calm them down. I kind of take their hand and try to get a little eye contact going."
Adam Luders, one of the outstanding partners in recent City Ballet history and now a teacher at the company school, treated his ballerinas like "porcelain dolls," Miss Nichols says. Such self-effacement was foreign to Nureyev.
 
 
Definitely Not A Man's World
 Men have tended to be invisible in classical ballet. In works of the Romantic era, the man existed mainly to support and carry the woman, to give the illusion captured in many lithographs of the period, Mr. Arpino notes, of a gossamer creature so light she could balance on a leaf.
Mr. Dowell and Mr. Gable knew how to present their ballerinas to the audience. That was one secret of partnerships like that of Erik Bruhn and Carla Fracci, of Mr. Martins and Miss Farrell, of Igor Yousekevitch and Alicia Alonso, and of the husband-and-wife pairing of Vladimir Vasiliev and Ekaterina Maximova.
The art of squiring a ballerina is taught today in most ballet academies, though Miss Nichols believes that the best partners are born, not made. At the School of American Ballet, which is affiliated with City Ballet, dancers even take ballroom dancing classes to learn to loosen up in their partnering, a program begun by Mr. Martins, director of the school and company. But Mr. Soto says he learned most by watching performances and studying the partnering techniques of Mr. Martins particularly.
"Peter had such a presence," he says. "Then, when he came out with Suzanne or someone else, she was floating. It was almost as if you didn't see him."
That combination of invisibility and presence is achieved by a total attentiveness to the ballerina's needs. The look of both dancers is thus enhanced, so that they appear as attuned to each other as a man and a woman in a long-term relationship.
The effect can be heightened by good partnering technique. "You have to allow her to do what she can do," Mr. McKenzie adds. "You have to stay out of her way but take her a little further than she could go on her own." He offers the example of lifting a ballerina from a pirouette into an arabesque. "You can't just plop her up and down. It is almost as if you are going into an arabesque yourself.
"You must use your hands economically, and use them not just to make her secure but to help shape her body rather than just holding on to her. It is as if you are sculpting her body, though no one sees it happening. It's like shaping a clay pot when it's spinning, which you can do because you're aware of the center. It's almost subliminal."
The instinctual sense of connection with another body can be a danger, though. Sean Lavery learned it on the job as a teen-age performer and eventually became one of the most sensitive partners at City Ballet, where he is now Mr. Martins's assistant. Years after his apprenticeship, dancing with Merrill Ashley in a tumultuous moment in Jerome Robbins's "Evening's Waltzes," Mr. Lavery grabbed and swung the ballerina around his head as the choreography required.
"I got carried away," Mr. Lavery recalls. "It was summer, in Saratoga. My hands were sweaty. And she went sailing off onto the floor and into splits. I caught her, but we must have looked like deer in headlights."
The sensitivity that marked the partnering of Mr. McKenzie and Mr. Lavery will guide the dancer through many styles. And it must, even among the classic narrative ballets. In the pas de deux in "Don Quixote," for example, Mr. McKenzie says, "you put out your hand for her to balance."
"The ballet is all about a woman on her own," he says. "In the balcony scene in 'Romeo and Juliet,' you're cross-eyed and out of breath, and the first thing Juliet does is throw herself at you."
Balanchine's classicism must be learned just as much as the 19th-century classicism of Marius Petipa, or the frequently off-center, skewed body line and lack of eye contact in ballets by choreographers who come from 20th-century modern dance. Balanchine insisted that his male dancers curve two fingers around the hand or wrist of their ballerinas to support them. He tended to present his dancers frontally to the audience. Manipulation of the woman's body is a big part of Balanchine's ballets, Mr. Soto says, and City Ballet choreographers like Mr. Martins and Richard Tanner carry that further.
 
 
Where Have the Great Partnerships Gone?
 The hothouse atmosphere of 20th-century ballet lent itself to the development of stars like Nijinsky, Eglevsky and Danilova. Then there was Balanchine, for whom the dance itself was the star and the dancers were the vivid instruments of that creation. An emphasis on technical expertise for its own sake from the 1970's on helped develop proficient technicians who were almost as unlikely to meld into partnerships as the stars who preceded them early in this century.
Companies today are large and perform in a huge variety of styles, including modern dance, which is historically an art of the individual rather than of the social mores from which classical ballet grew. And ways of working have also changed.
Choreography helped create the star duos of history, but choreographers now work under the gun. Gone are the open-ended rehearsal periods in which some of the classics of ballet were created, in quiet, uncluttered studios. Working consistently with a few sympathetic dancers has become a luxury. A good partnership has been likened to a good marriage or romance, but it is hard to move through the rituals of love with strangers looking on. Today, Mr. Arpino says, choreographers create pas de deux not only with two chosen dancers but with their understudies.
Could a contemporary choreographer create a pas de deux for Miss Ferri and Mr. Bocca that would plumb the depths of passion in that partnership as well as of the classics they will dance this season at the Metropolitan? It might be difficult.
Miss Ferri and Mr. Bocca seldom rehearse those classics, choosing instead to dance spontaneously and even to improvise to make the performance as fresh as possible. "I almost know where he will finish, and so I know where to catch up with him, and he with me," Miss Ferri says of the sudden, improvised moments.
"I remember once in 'Romeo and Juliet,' after the scene in the ballroom, I was supposed to run offstage to the left with everyone following me. I was looking so much at Julio, I ran off on the wrong side. The dancers were all giggling. I didn't even know. And that has happened to him.
"You get to the point where it doesn't matter any more. Steps don't matter so much. You go beyond doing well."
 
 
 
The Topic of Much Talk
 Over the years, critics and dancers have weighed in on the art of partnering. Here is a sampling.
"Shattered eardrums must have been a dime a dozen last evening at the Metropolitan Opera House as the audience beat its palms and cheered wildly for an elegant ballet duo who might also be classified as the hottest little team in show biz. . . . Combine the smolder, the mystery, the dynamic presence, the great streaks of vivid movement which Nureyev gives us with the beauty, the radiance, the womanliness, the queenliness and the shining movements of Dame Margot and the cheers that have shaken the old Met to its foundations are explained."
Walter Terry, dance critic, The New York Herald Tribune, describing the Fonteyn-Nureyev phenomenon in 1963.
"The partner surrenders his intelligence, his balletic skill, his showmanship, to the creation and perfection of a dance."
Anton Dolin, an outstanding English classical partner, in his 1949 book, "Pas de Deux, the Art of Partnering."
"As a partner, Massine was terrible. He wasn't interested in anybody else. He considered lifting a ballerina or supporting her in pirouettes not part of his job and acted as if he were doing her a favor. Like Nijinsky, like Eglevsky . . . he preferred to dance by himself."
Alexandra Danilova, in her 1986 autobiography, "Choura: The Memoirs of Alexandra Danilova"
"She gave me the freedom to partner her."
Julio Bocca on the ballerina Alessandra Ferri in a recent interview.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Trustworthy -- Damian Woetzel and Kyra Nichols, New York City Ballet principals, in "Allegro Brillante" -- Dancers must trust each other, Mr. Woetzel says. (Paul Kolnik/New York City Ballet); Extra Ingredient -- Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn in "Le Corsaire" in the 1960's--Their onstage rapport added the spice of threatened ravishment. Inspired Match -- The Royal Ballet's Antoinette Sibley and Anthony Dowell in "Manon" in 1974 -- English fans called them "heavenly twins." Otherworldliness -- Alicia Markova and Anton Dolin in "Giselle" in 1943 -- From the 1930's on, they danced together almost as a single body. (Alfredo Valente)(pg. 6); Alessandra Ferri and Julio Bocca in "Romeo and Juliet," which they will dance in Ballet Theater's new season, beginning April 24 -- "I really dance for Julio, and he for me," Miss Ferri says. "You open up your heart." (Gregory Heisler/American Ballet Theater)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY BALLET (77%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BALLET (92%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); OPERA (89%); DANCERS (89%); THEATER (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (57%); 

PERSON: LYNN SEYMOUR (58%); RUDOLF HAMETOVICH NUREYEV (56%); PETER MARTINS (55%); SUZANNE FARRELL (55%); GEORGE BALANCHINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



361 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Dollar Is Weak, but Not Everywhere

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Economists can provide all sorts of complicated and sometimes contradictory reasons for why currencies gyrate in value. Some of those reasons may even be correct. But for Americans traveling in most of the world, one thing is clear: The dollar is not worth as much as it used to be.
Since the beginning of last year, the dollar has lost more than 20 percent of its value versus the world's two other major currencies, the Japanese yen and the German mark, and is trading at or near all-time lows against them. And because of the way the world's economies are interconnected these days, the relationships among those three major currencies filter down to affect almost all exchange rates, causing a form of sticker shock for Americans approaching a currency-exchange bureau. 
 In Europe, many other currencies set their values based on the German mark. So while the dollar lost 20.65 percent against the mark between Jan. 3, 1994, when the American currency was at one of its highest levels in years, and April 4, 1995, it also lost 20.62 percent against the Dutch guilder and 21.79 percent against the Belgian franc.
 Other currencies have not gained quite so much against the dollar in the last 15 months. The dollar is down about 18 percent versus the French franc. Britain remains a relative bargain: The dollar is off less than 8 percent against the pound.
There are some glaring exceptions to the trend. Mexico, plagued by economic problems, has seen the peso plummet in value, meaning that the dollar goes much farther there (although the gain could be at least partly offset by price increases). And Canada has seen its dollar fall 5.88 percent in value versus its American counterpart, making a trip north of the border that much less expensive.
Against the Italian lira, the dollar has hardly changed in value at all in the last 15 months. And the dollar still buys more lire and more Spanish pesetas than it did in mid-1992, when many Americans were complaining about Europe's being overpriced.
But Americans should hold on to their wallets if they head to Finland. The dollar has lost more than 26 percent of its value against the Finnish mark in the last 15 months.
For national economies, a devalued currency has its pluses and minuses. For travelers, it means only that everything effectively costs more.
The hotel room in Germany that cost $200 a night at the beginning of last year will now cost about $240 -- assuming the hotel has not raised rates. Dinner at that cozy little place on the Left Bank that previously cost $150 is now about $177.
What's the outlook for the dollar for the rest of the year? As with any economic question, there's no simple or reliable answer. The American currency's value has seemed to level off or even begin strengthening several times, only to dive again. Against the Japanese yen, the dollar often seems not to have any floor.
In Europe, much of the dollar's strength, or lack of it, has to do with the unpredictable financial interplay among the major Western European currencies, which by the end of the decade are supposed to be melded into one. No one has yet figured out how that is going to work.
So what is a traveler to do? The best practical advice might be to shop around among currency-exchange bureaus, comparing rates and commission fees. Check the rates that credit-card issuers use in converting purchases abroad into dollars. And remember that in many cases, local currency can be withdrawn from automated teller machines at foreign banks using an A.T.M. card issued by an American bank at rates more favorable than those at change bureaus.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Dollar: A Few Ups, and Many Downs" lists the dollar's worth in selected international monetary units. (Source: Ruesch International, Washington)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); FINLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); FINLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TRENDS (79%); DEVALUATION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



362 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: ARTS/ARTIFACTS;
Tiffany Lamps Recapture Their Glow

BYLINE: By RITA REIF 

 BODY:
WILL TIFFANY LAMPS retain their glow for aficionados in the 21st century? Four years ago, this seemed an unlikely prospect as sales of Louis Comfort Tiffany's works faltered in the recession. But their popularity was soon restored, auction records were broken, and now a miniboom appears to be developing, set off by the spirited buying of several new collectors.
The real test of the market will come on Saturday, when Sotheby's in New York auctions 75 Tiffany lamps, the largest collection ever to go on the block. The lamps, which are expected to bring a total of $6 million to $9 million, are owned by John W. Mecom Jr., a Houston oil heir and real estate investor who is the former owner of the New Orleans Saints football team. 
 Mr. Mecom became a collector in 1974, when he saw some Tiffany lamps that looked like the "great chandeliers I saw as a child in my mother's parents home; they were so beautiful." That year he paid $7,500 for a six-light candelabrum at the Manhattan shop of Lillian Nassau, then the most important dealer in the field. It may double in price at the sale.
He stopped buying around 1990, and last year, when he was divorced, people in the trade say, he offered the collection to the Sultan of Brunei and two Japanese collectors for about $50 million. "I bought these lamps to create a collection," he explained. "And I wanted to keep them together. That's why I tried to sell them to one collector." He says the sale has nothing to do with his divorce. "My taste changed," he said. "I was trying to simplify my life."
Critics contend that even Sotheby's valuations are too high. Nonetheless, the auction house expects that four lamps may exceed the record at auction for any Tiffany object: $770,000. That price was paid in 1992 at Sotheby's for a lamp with a spider-web shade and a glass-mosaic base of daffodils.
Mr. Mecom's more delicate version of the spider-web lamp has an iridescent base of blue-green glass tiles overlaid with bronze blades of grass. Its price could reach $900,000. A lamp with a shocking pink and orange shade patterned with maplelike leaves from the Virginia creeper vine could equal that figure. Two others with unusual shades -- one showing carp in a fishbowl, the second a landscape at dawn, midday and dusk -- are expected to fetch up to $800,000 each.
Compared with these rarities, a wisteria lamp with its magical mix of blues and mauves in leaded glass on a bronze tree base will probably seem a bargain if it brings the $300,000 Sotheby's says it will. The relatively low figure for what many experts consider Tiffany's most beautiful lamp is explained by the fact that so many of this one-time best seller survive.
Tiffany's vibrantly colored lamps, windows and vases have been admired and collected since they were first produced about 1900. They fell out of favor around 1930, during the Depression, when Art Deco and machine-age modern came into fashion. Twenty-five years later, they were rediscovered by collectors, curators and dealers like Mrs. Nassau, and since then, enthusiasm for them has rarely abated. In 1990, the Metropolitan Museum of Art presented "Masterworks of Louis Comfort Tiffany," the largest such exhibition ever; the show attracted 500,000 people, making it the best-attended show of decorative arts in the museum's history.
Several other Tiffany records have also been rewritten in recent years. A wisteria window was auctioned in 1991 at Christie's for $440,000. And, last November, a flower-shaped vase was bought at Sotheby's for $250,000 by Takeo Horiuchi, a Japanese real estate developer and owner of the Louis C. Tiffany Museum in Nagoya.
MR. HORIUCHI IS ONE OF the newcomers who will probably take part in the Mecom sale (either through agents or by telephone). Another is Brad Pitt, the actor, who buys Tiffany lamps to go with his collection of early-20th-century furniture and houses in the Arts and Crafts style. He favors the turtleback- and Moorish-style lamps from Tiffany's earlier period.
"Mr. Tiffany will never be totally ignored or scorned," said Alastair Duncan, an adviser to the Nagoya museum who has written six books on the subject. "His lamps are unsophisticated, pleasurable and so easy to love. Besides, there's been too much interest and too much money paid for his creations. Each generation has found different reasons to collect Tiffany. These lamps are busy and colorful, and they fit well in late-20th-century homes."
Mr. Pitt's passion for the Tiffany windows is no less intense. "I can't justify spending 20 grand on a truck," Mr. Pitt told Premiere magazine last fall. "But on a Tiffany stained glass window? If I could get one for 20 grand, I could completely justify that."
A window at that price would be no problem, said Barbara E. Deisroth, who heads Sotheby's sales of 19th- and 20th-century decorative arts. "But he's not going to get much in a Tiffany lamp for $20,000."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A wisteria lamp, left; a detail from a lily-pad chandelier, below, and a spider-web lamp, right, will be among the 75 items auctioned at Sotheby's in New York on Saturday. (Photographs from Sotheby's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S SOTHEBY'S (85%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (71%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: LAMPS AND LAMPSHADES; AUCTIONS; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA; MECOM, JOHN W JR; TIFFANY, LOUIS COMFORT JOHN W MECOM JR (67%); BRAD PITT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



363 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 18; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By TERENCE NEILAN

 BODY:

Going to Greenland
Q. We are planning a trip to Greenland and we're wondering if there are any inexpensive hotels in Godthaab. -- Ellen Leopold, Reseda, Calif. 
 A. The choices are pretty slim in Godthaab, which is the Danish name for a town now known officially in Greenland by its Inuit name of Nuuk. And whether because of the dollar's poor showing in financial markets or because of the natural difficulties of running a business in a place as remote as Greenland, accommodation prices are hardly bargain basement.
According to Greenland Tourism, a company formed in 1992 by Greenland Home Rule, which is what the government was called after the island achieved self-rule from Denmark on May 1, 1979, there are two hotels in Nuuk, the capital of Southwest Greenland. The town has a population of 13,000.
Hotel Hans Egede, Box 289, 3900 Nuuk, Greenland, (299) 24222, fax (299) 24487, charges $193 for a regular single room, $129 for an economy single and $240 for a double, calculated at 5.4 Danish kroner to the dollar. The 105-room hotel was named for a Danish churchman who landed in Greenland in 1721 and began the island's modern colonization. The settlement was founded in 1727.
The alternative is the 27-room Seamens Home, Postbox 1021, 3900 Nuuk, Greenland, (299) 21029, fax (299) 22104, which despite its name is open to non-mariners, including women, and is like a hotel in all respects except that it does not serve liquor. A single room is $110 ($73 for an economy) and a double $160.
For more information contact Greenland Tourism, Postbox 1552, DK-3900 Nuuk, Greenland; (299) 22888, fax (299) 22877, or one of the following agents in North America, both of which sell package tours to Greenland:
Pedersen World Tours, Park Place Corporate Center, 15 Wertheim Court, Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada; (905) 882-5470, fax (905) 882-5472.
Scanam, 933 Highway 23, Pompton Plains, N.J. 07444; (201) 835-7070, fax (201) 835-3030.
 
 
Glatt Kosher in London
 Q. I will be visiting London next month with my niece, who requires glatt kosher food. Can you tell me the names of restaurants there that serve such foods? -- Marilyn G. Shavel, West Palm Beach, Fla.
A. Glatt, or rigorously, kosher establishments in London are supervised by the Joint Kashrus Committee-Kedassia (Union of Orthodox Hebrew Congregations), 67 Amhurst Park, London N16 5DL, which supplied the names of these restaurants and takeout places.
The following are in the Golders Green area:
Amors, 8 Russell Parade, Golders Green Road; (181) 458 4221. Eat-in or takeout. Open 11 A.M. to 10 P.M. Sunday to Thursday, Friday 8 A.M. to 2:30 P.M. (takeout only). Wide range of hot and cold food.
Burgerland, 239 Golders Green Road; (181) 731 7497. Open 11 A.M. to midnight Monday to Thursday; 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. Friday and an hour after the Sabbath ends until 1 A.M. A small burger costs $3, calculated at $1.60 to the pound; a double burger is $4.75.
Carmelli, 124 Golders Green Road; (181) 455 0664. Open 11 A.M. to 11 P.M. Sunday to Thursday. Typical dishes are lasagna, pizza, quiche, omelet, various main-course salads all at $8.
Palms, 1-4 Belmont Parade, Finchley Road, Temple Fortune; (181) 731 8282. Open Sunday to Thursday from noon to 3 P.M and 6 P.M. to 11 P.M.; closed Friday and Saturday. Main courses for two include steak au poivre, $54; beef Wellington, $54.
Reich's, 10 Princes Parade, Golders Green Road; (181) 455 2613. A delicatessen specializing in Sabbath food, Reich's is open Thursday noon to 7 P.M., Friday 9 A.M. to 3 p.m., Sunday 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Chopped liver is $5.60 a pound; chicken $5.60 a pound.
The following are in Stamford Hill:
Uncle Shlomie, 204 Stamford Hill; (181) 802 9355. Open Sunday to Thursday from 10 A.M. to 10 P.M., Friday 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. Takeout and bar facilities. Fried chicken $2.80; potato knishes $1.60.
Greenfelds, 14 Stamford Hill; (181) 806 3987. Open Monday to Thursday from 9:30 A.M. to 6 P.M, Friday 9 A.M. to 4 P.M., Sunday 10 A.M. to 1:30 P.M. Mainly frozen meals such as goulash; chicken, potato and vegetable; breast of turkey with vegetable. From $7.20 to $8.80.
Tasti Pizza, 23 Amhurst Parade, Amhurst Park, has a branch in Stamford Hill, (181) 802 0018, and in Golders Greeen at Russell Parade, 252 Golders Green Road, (181) 209 0023. Both open noon to 10:30 P.M. Sunday to Thursday and noon to 4 P.M. Friday. Pizzas from $7.60 to $10.40. Takeout and bar facilities.
"The Jewish Travel Guide," published in Britain with The Jewish Chronicle, lists a number of Jewish organizations around the world, including kosher restaurants and hotels. It is distributed in the United States by Sepher Herman Press, 1265 46th Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11219, (718) 972-9010, and costs $12.95 plus $2.50 for shipping and handling.
 
Day Trip to Venice
 Q. My husband and I will be spending some time in May in Florence and understand it is possible to take a day trip from there to Venice. Which is more convenient, to go by bus or train? -- Tina Bruder, Alexandria, Va.
A. There is no bus service between the two cities, but there are rather convenient trains.
The times are good through May 27; in Florence (area code 055) call 288785 for any changes in schedule.
The Intercity 712 leaves Florence at 7:15 A.M. and arrives at Venezia Santa Lucia at 10:15 A.M.
The Eurocity 30 leaves Florence at 9:47 A.M. and arrives in Venezia Mestre at 12:27 P.M. Trains for Venezia Santa Lucia leave Venezia Mestre every 10 minutes and the trip takes about 10 minutes.
On the return trip, the Intercity 723 leaves Venezia Santa Lucia at 7:42 P.M., arriving in Florence at 10:48 P.M.
There are also local trains to and from Venice from Florence but they involve making a change in Bologna, which wastes precious time on such a short visit.
A one-way ticket costs $21, including the Intercity supplement.
 
Movie Time in Cannes
 Q. Can you tell me when this year's Cannes film festival will be held? And are tickets for movie screenings available? -- Silviu Landman, M.D., Vestal, N.Y.
A. The festival will be held from May 17 to 28, which means you might have left it till too late to get theater tickets. Write to International Film Festival, Service d'Accreditation, 99 Boulevard Malesherbes, 75008 Paris, France, or fax a request to 45.61.97.60. Bonne chance.
 TERENCE NEILAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: GREENLAND (99%); DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENLAND (99%); DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (75%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



364 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2940 words

HEADLINE: Using Zoning to Spur Lower-Priced Housing

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN 

 BODY:
LYNN ZAMBRANA'S condominium looks out to the tall oak trees and the occasional deer on historic Princeton Ridge, the overlook where the British first spied the Continental Army, a sighting that ignited the Battle of Princeton in 1777.
"It's so pretty I don't even want curtains," Mrs. Zambrana said of the view from the three-bedroom unit she and her husband, Hector, bought 14 months ago. Given his $32,000 annual salary as a mail carrier in nearby Lawrenceville and her decision to quit her job as a mail carrier to raise the couple's two children, the Zambranas feel lucky to have found a unit that cost only $70,000. 
 Their condominium is one of 60 low- and moderate-income units mixed in with 240 market-rate single-family detached houses and town houses in the Washington Oaks complex completed last year along the Stony Brook in Princeton Township. It is a mile and a half from Drumthwacket, the New Jersey Governor's mansion in Princeton.
The family is one of a small but growing number of homeowners with modest incomes in the metropolitan area who are benefiting from density bonuses -- incentives given to builders who provide some units of moderate- or low-income housing in developments of market-rate homes. By building such units, which are termed affordable housing, the developers are able to construct a larger number of market-rate units than zoning would otherwise allow.
A density bonus is a way to override often restrictive land-use policies that limit densities and keep land costs high. The concept has been widely used over the last decade in New Jersey, where developers have either built the affordable units on their sites, provided money to the township to build them, or "exported" the money with which to build them to nearby urban centers. More recently Connecticut has made it easier for home builders to produce affordable housing in communities that have less than 10 percent of it. A 1989 law gives those communities the burden of proof in showing why they should deny developers the right to build such housing.
A few municipalities in the metropolitan area have voluntarily used the density bonus concept to promote affordable housing. But suburban fears that property values will decline if densities are increased have made most municipalities reluctant to promote any technique or seek any subsidy for building moderately priced homes.
George M. Raymond, whose Tarrytown, N.Y., planning-consultant firm bears his name, directs the Westchester County Housing Opportunity Commission, which is trying to persuade communities to comply with voluntary affordable-housing guidelines.
"Anyone advocating affordable housing is about as welcome as Typhoid Mary," he said, noting that county legislators and officials associated with what he called "the dreaded A word" tended to lose elections.
Density bonuses have proved popular with builders in New Jersey and more recently in Connecticut, but with continued community resistance the process of winning approval is often time-consuming and expensive, and builders are often reluctant to pick a fight.
In New York State, which has not enacted comprehensive affordable-housing legislation, density-bonus initiatives have been particularly slow in coming. "Firm community support is rare," said George A. Frank, executive vice president of the Builders' Institute of Westchester and the Mid-Hudson Region. "Density bonuses can increase the number of units and lower prices, and builders have used these opportunities whenever and wherever they can. But relatively few units have been built."
Samuel B. Fuller, vice president of Development for Avalon Properties of New Canaan, Conn., a large developer of multifamily affordable rental housing, said that if towns were sincere about affordable housing, they might consider more bonus densities.
"If you want more affordable housing, you have to provide economic incentives," said Mr. Fuller, whose company is building its first bonus-density project in New Canaan -- a 102-unit project with 20 percent of the units restricted to moderate-income families. "Bonus densities are a good way to do it because they don't cost municipalities anything."
But affordable housing does cost municipalities, said Robert Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association. Municipal finances are almost totally dependent on the property-tax system, he said. "Communities don't readily zone for uses that demand a lot of services," he said. "A three-bedroom house on a small lot is a drain."
In the typical bonus agreement, the developer who agrees to make 20 percent of his units affordable will receive double the density allowed under the zoning code. The developer absorbs the cost of the affordable units with increased market-rate profits while the municipality gains affordable housing. Often, it gives public employees and young families priority in owning or renting this housing. In New Jersey, however, the Supreme Court has banned such limitations, saying that affordable housing should be offered on a regional basis.
TYPICALLY, units in the "moderate income" category must be affordable to families earning up to 80 percent of the region's median income; "low-income" units are intended for families earning no more than 50 percent of the median. Under Federal guidelines, the carrying cost of an affordable unit -- including utilities and rent or mortgage payments with taxes -- should not exceed 30 percent of household income.
Communities are becoming more accepting of affordable housing as they discover that their own employees, senior citizens and teachers have no local or nearby place to live, said P. Lynn Oliva, Commissioner of Planning for Westchester County. Since 1990, 16 Westchester communities have built 1,200 of the 4,800 units the county estimates it will need by the decade's end. The median income in Westchester is $66,900; the median house price is $319,000, and business leaders fear that the growing gap will threaten the broader economy.
Planners continue to sound the alarm. In June, the Regional Plan Association will release a study assessing the impact of the lack of affordable housing in the metropolitan area, where housing prices are 50 to 60 percent above the national average.
Growing awareness of the need for affordable housing has produced sweeping legislation in New Jersey and led communities throughout the state to free land for modestly priced, primarily multifamily, housing. Similar legislation was enacted six years ago in Connecticut, and there have been significant court cases in New York.
Mixed-income communities like Washington Oaks are appearing more frequently throughout the region as builders realize they have a friend in court. By agreeing to include a percentage of affordable housing in their market-rate projects, builders are using these laws to circumvent cumbersome zoning ordinances, increase density and build for a more mixed-income market.
The beneficiaries in most areas of Westchester and eastern Connecticut are middle-management office personnel, said H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association. Eighty percent of median income for a family of four in Westchester is $53,520 a year. It is $58,880 in Fairfield County.
"The lack of affordable housing in the metropolitan region is a major reason companies are relocating," Mr. Shostal said.
The legislative push for density bonuses for affordable housing began a decade ago in New Jersey, following a series of State Supreme Court rulings, collectively known as the Mount Laurel decisions, led the Legislature to adopt a sweeping affordable housing statute, known as the Fair Housing Act.
Local governments had an obligation to provide a "fair share" of the region's housing needs, the courts declared, and ordered them to remove regulations preventing the building of affordable housing and to take steps to provide it. Since land costs were a major impediment, the courts said, the key step was to offer developers density bonuses in exchange for providing lower-income housing units.
In 1985 the New Jersey Legislature created the Council on Affordable Housing, which has established allocations of affordable housing for each town. Today, each community in the state must develop an acceptable plan or be subject to developer suits.
CONTINUED local opposition and a general building slowdown have kept the courts busy and the process moving slowly, but 161 of 567 communities in New Jersey have now developed acceptable plans, said Shirley Bishop, the Council's executive director. By the end of 1993, 13,000 units of affordable housing had been constructed in 93 New Jersey communities, Ms. Bishop said, adding that these were the latest available figures. "The density bonus is critical," Ms. Bishop said. "The entire process is market-driven without income supplements. The density bonus gives the developer a realistic opportunity to build these units."
Mr. Raymond of the Westchester County Housing Opportunity Commission, one of several people with housing backgrounds appointed by the New Jersey courts to monitor compliance by certain towns, agrees. "The major proportion of affordable housing built in New Jersey following the Mount Laurel rulings has come from density bonuses," he said. An estimated 13,000 affordable-housing units have been built in the state under the Mount Laurel process. The most recent target set by the state's Council on Affordable Housing was for 86,308 more units of such housing by 1999.
The K. Hovnanian Companies, based in Red Bank, have built 30 "inclusionary communities" in the state, including 2,500 Mount Laurel units, all in projects with density bonuses. Without Mount Laurel, said James Corbett, the president of Hovnanian's northern New Jersey division, "there would be substantially fewer multifamily homes."
Building such homes is a difficult process. In Princeton, the Washington Oaks project was completed in February 1994, following a 10-year fight finally settled out of court. In what some came to know as the "second battle of Princeton," the developer sued the township for the right to build 1,280 units of a mixed-income project on 124 acres of a former farm.
The out-of-court settlement preserved over half the site for historic preservation and open space and provided a court-imposed density bonus, which allowed a total of 300 units on 73 acres of the original 124-acre site. The affordable units are contained in three of six two-story buildings, indistinguishable from their market-rate neighbors and abutted by open space, toddler playgrounds and tennis courts.
"The bonus density is what made it work," said Robert Fourniadis, senior vice president and general counsel of Calton Homes, the project developer. "Under existing density, we would have built 40 homes in the $500,000 to $600,000 range, out of reach of 90 percent of the population. This way, we opened home ownership to people who had only dreamed of it."
Three- and four-bedroom single-family homes sold for an average $350,000 while three- and four-bedroom town houses sold for $160,000 to $170,000 and market-rate condominiums ranged from $120,000 to $140,000. Market-rate home buyers showed "some resistance" to buying homes in a project that included low- and moderate-income units, said Mr. Fourniadis. But now, he said, the project is sold out.
Neighbors were concerned about increased traffic, said Thomas Poole, who heads Princeton's Affordable Housing Board. But, he added, there was an underlying issue. "The not-in-my-backyard syndrome is prevalent in Princeton," he said. "Suggest affordable housing and residents immediately picture people running around with guns in their hands."
Pressure for affordable housing has encouraged a few municipalities to use both bonus densities and subsidies to create affordable housing with little community opposition. North Amityville, L.I., in the Town of Babylon, recently completed a 72-unit project clustered on 11 acres leaving an additional 59 acres for open space. The single-family houses, each with a $25,000 subsidy from the New York State Affordable Housing Corporation, are now owned by families picked in a lottery that included 560 village residents.
Because the project was built by the Long Island Housing Partnership, a nonprofit corporation, there are no market-rate units, and the density bonus was used simply to increase the number of affordable units. Each of the two-bedroom town houses sold last year for $58,584.
IN FARMINGTON, CONN., Ron Janeczko, a developer who is a native of the community, is putting the finishing touches on The Cornerstone at Farmington, a mixed-income development of 68 single-family market-rate homes and 46 affordable duplex units on 30 acres. Prices for three-bedroom affordable units will start at $109,000 in a town where the median price for a new house is about $210,000. Market-rate homes will start at $169,000 for the smallest house -- 1,620 square feet with three bedrooms.
Mr. Janeczko, a partner of Inland/Hixon Associates of Simsbury, was the first developer to take advantage of the town's four-year-old bonus-density provision, which ties the allowable density to the amount of affordable housing. If a third of a proposed project consists of affordable units, nine units are allowed per acre; 13 units are allowed if the entire project is affordable.
Neighborhood opposition kept Mr. Janeczko's application pending for two and a half years. Now that the houses are on the market for under $200,000, public interest is "astronomical," he said.
Despite its willingness to consider affordable housing, Farmington has been the target of both developer and resident suits. Residents are suing the town because they think a proposed 34-unit development is too large, while the developer is suing because he wants greater density. The developer's suit is being brought under the state's six-year-old Affordable Housing Land Use Appeals statute, enacted in 1989, which requires that each town insure that 10 percent of its housing supply is affordable. A community that denies a zoning change to a developer who agrees to make 20 percent of his housing units affordable must prove that its zoning is not exclusionary.
In the six years since the law was enacted, 22 court cases have produced victories for both sides. "The result has been evenly split," said Timothy S. Hollister, a Hartford attorney who brought the case. The court's even-handedness, he said, has helped reduce community fears that "developers would march like Sherman through Atlanta."
But Jeff Ollendorf, Farmington's town planner, said state legislation has dampened local support for affordable housing. "We stimulated affordable housing on our own initiative and on our own terms," Mr. Ollendorf said. "The law is too much of an intrusion on a town's ability to determine its own future."
That sentiment is echoed strongly across the border in New York State where the rustic and affluent Westchester County town of North Salem has spent eight years in court battling a developer. The case, involving the Continental Building Company of White Plains, tests the town's zoning code and its refusal to allow multifamily housing, a code which a State Supreme Court judge has called "exclusionary."
Both sides appealed the decision. The town challenged the ruling that its zoning code was unconstitutional; the developer wants the town to pay a greater portion of its legal expenses. A decision by the Third Department, Appellate Division, in Albany is expected in a few weeks.
MEANWHILE, North Salem has permitted its first moderate-priced housing under the density bonus provision of its zoning code. Five moderately priced single-family homes will be mixed in a 53-unit luxury home development called Salem Chase now under construction by Toll Brothers, a Huntingdon Valley, Pa., development company. The luxury four-bedroom units on the 133-acre site will sell for $400,000 to $500,000.
"It's a hot lot," said Tom Hausle, the Salem Chase project manager, said of the three-quarter-acre site at 5 Cider Mill Lane designated for the first moderately priced three-bedroom home. "I could have sold it like that," he added, snapping his fingers. The five moderately priced houses, on sites designated by the Town Housing Board, will sell for $165,000.
There had been "some concern about how the other homes would sell," Mr. Hausle said, but that proved not to be a problem. Houses adjacent to the first moderately priced unit are on similar "premium lots" backing onto the woods and bordered by a stone wall. Their new owners have paid Toll Brothers an extra $2,500 above the house price to secure them, Mr. Hausle said.
The moderately priced houses are standard Toll models more modestly outfitted, Mr. Hausle said. Each will have a two-car garage, a two-story foyer, two and a half baths, hardwood floors and ceramic tiles. The model sells in other communities, including Green Hills in Budd Lake, N.J., for $290,000, he said.
Throughout the region, the building of affordable housing is proceeding slowly. Business leaders fear that the growing gap between median income and median housing prices threatens the broader economy.
"We support density bonuses because we have to have more affordable housing," said Robert Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association. "Ten years ago, we identified the lack of affordable housing as the Achilles' heel in the region's economy. It's still the largest factor in the cost of living and doing business here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Hausle, project manager of a North Salem development that is to include five moderately priced units. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALEM, OR, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY HOUSING OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY HOUSING OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; PRINCETON TOWNSHIP (NJ); NORTH SALEM (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ZONING (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); CITIES (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); BURDENS OF PROOF (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); GOVERNORS (67%); COUNTIES (62%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA LYNN ZAMBRANA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



365 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
A Word to the Wise for Co-op Owners: Participate!

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
SWEET are the uses of adversity, and also of ignorance, in building a successful co-op. Both must be overcome. In the process of overcoming, co-op owners acquire the cohesion and wisdom that makes for good housing.
Charles Rappaport, who is 72 years old, found these principles to be true in his own building and others built as co-ops in the 50's and 60's because they led to shareholder participation in building governance. And participation is the theme he has hammered at for 30 years as president of an organization known now as the Federation of New York Housing Cooperatives. 
 Aided by his wife, Eva, Mr. Rappaport has made a cause of strengthening co-op housing and helping newer co-ops learn to govern themselves.
"I preach it wherever I go -- it rolls off my tongue: the rights and obligations of shareholders," he said. "People should not be afraid to get on the board because they don't know anything. When we started, we learned very fast, because we had to. We changed our attorney and our managing agent. We got good counsel. We attended seminars. Little by little we learned."
Mr. Rappaport, a retired pension and insurance consultant, is in a wheelchair at present recovering from a leg amputation caused by diabetes. ("Soon I'll be driving again with my left foot," he says.) His views have special relevance at a time when most news about co-ops has to do with the difficulties of buildings recently converted from rentals in achieving the almost mystically appealing status of a "true" co-op.
The older generation of co-op disciples gradually built that mystique from their adversity and ignorance -- adversity because of trials with builders, and ignorance because few of the initial buyers knew much about building management.
Mr. Rappaport's co-op in Queens -- the 193-unit, 16-story building at 138-10 Franklin Avenue in Flushing -- was one of many built under a Federal mortgage-insurance program known as Section 213. These unsubsidized garden apartments or midrise or high-rise buildings, 31,582 units in 161 developments, are to be found throughout New York City.
Most of the 213's are in the final years of a 40-year fixed-rate federally insured mortgage held at interest rates of 4 percent to 6 percent. It is a form of financing that has promoted stability through the vicissitudes of the mortgage market. With debt costs fixed, inflation has made debt service an ever-shrinking component of monthly maintenance charges. Buildings have been able to keep maintenance increases moderate while keeping pace with rising operating costs. The 213 co-ops provide some of the city's best low-cost, unsubsidized multifamily housing.
THE boards of the insured co-ops formed a a council of presidents, out of which developed the Federation of Section 213's in 1956. Mr. Rappaport became its president in 1968. Ten years later it adopted the name Federation of New York Housing Cooperatives. In its educational and lobbying activities it works closely with the Manhattan-based Council of New York Cooperatives, formed mainly by the directors of co-ops converted from privately owned rentals.
The issues of governance faced by the pure co-ops -- built as co-ops with all the initial sales going to owner-occupants -- and mixed-occupancy co-ops, with a large percentage of nonpurchasing renters, are often similar. But the mixed-occupancy buildings have the added challenge of building a true co-op culture.
John K. Stewart, head of the John Stewart Company in San Francisco, a co-op development and housing-services company that manages 129 co-ops in California, says that steady board participation in governance and a fairly stable personnel on the board work in the end to enhance the value of co-op apartments on the sales market.
"The effect of the quality of the board on the value of the co-op cannot be overstated," Mr. Stewart said. He also thinks it is a good idea for buildings to have some degree of underlying debt, to make apartments somewhat more affordable for buyers.
Another specialist, Stephen B. Parliament, head of The Parliament Company, a co-op development and management company based in Minneapolis, called stable debt service "a key economic advantage" for co-ops. Because of resident participation in operations, they are also slightly less expensive to operate than rentals, he said.
Mr. Rappaport's co-op is known as Carlyle Towers Co-op B. It was one of two similar buildings developed on the site by the Jonathan Woodner Company, now based in Washington. Some of its governance principles reflect an insistence on placing common building needs ahead of individual needs. For example, the building doesn't allow shareholders to sublet. It also sets a minimum acceptable price for a resale.
The co-op always has the first right of purchase at the minimum price, but it can waive the right and usually does. The minimum price, set four years ago, is $110 a share, which translates to about $50,000 for a two-bedroom and $60,000 for a three-bedroom in a building that has almost all family-sized units.
"In the down cycle people begged us to cut the minimum acceptable price," Mr. Rappaport said, "but we held fast and now we are getting more than the minimum in most sales." He advises co-ops that do decide to permit subletting to assure themselves of the financial capacity of the sublessee and to put time limits on the permissible sublet period.
Lately, prices have been rising again. Ruth Rosenbloom, a 25-year resident who is vice president for sales, said a 2-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath corner apartment sold last year for $72,000. A few years ago a similar apartment would have sold for $125,000. "It was a highly inflated market then," she said.
Neither Mr. Rappaport nor Mary Ann Rothman, executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives, advocates a specific policy on sublets. Sometimes there is a gradually escalating fee for subletting, said Ms. Rothman, or a time limit. Lenders' requirements often enter into the decision.
Wearing his advocate's hat, Mr. Rappaport has various campaigns under way. One is for an extension of the senior citizens' rent-increase exemption program, or Scrie, to co-ops. This program gives buildings tax relief that makes it possible for buildings to forgo rent increases for low-income tenants. The benefit is available in rentals and government-assisted co-ops, but not private co-ops, although many longterm co-op residents, he says, also have low incomes.
He also says that the J-51 program of tax relief for building improvements needs to be updated. The Legislature has authorized expanded coverage, but the Department of Housing Preservation and Development has not revised its regulations, he said.
ANOTHER Rappaport campaign has been for lower property taxes on co-ops, benefiting them as owners of one- to three-family home owners are benefited in New York City. At present they are assessed at the higher level applicable to rental property. The homeowners are in Class 1, which gets a special legislative dispensation to hold assessments down, while the larger co-ops are in Class 2 with rental property.
"Our taxes are three to four times higher per unit than the homeowners' taxes," Mr. Rappaport said.
Many of the problems of converted buildings Mr. Rappaport attributes to a Legislature that was too lenient in its requirement on the percentage of apartments that must be sold -- 15 percent -- before a rental building can become a co-op. He also believes that the Attorney General's office was too lenient in accepting plans for filing -- the technical term that means sponsors could begin sales. "The hand of the Attorney General must be strengthened," he said.
"You know how much assets a sponsor has to have to convert a building?" Mr. Rappaport said. "Only $5,000! There has been a proposal for $50,000. Even that's too little!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Rappaport, head of the Federation of New York Housing Cooperatives, at home with his wife, Eva. (Adam Fernandez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); FEDERATION OF NEW YORK HOUSING COOPERATIVES (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION OF NEW YORK HOUSING COOPERATIVES (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (87%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); LAWYERS (68%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (65%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: RAPPAPORT, CHARLES; OSER, ALAN S CHARLES RAPPAPORT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



366 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Salaries;
As Growth and Hiring Resume, the Pay's the Thing

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
NEWMARK & COMPANY, like most real estate firms, used to delegate research to clerks who were good with computers. This month, Newmark hired a research director with a bachelor's in economics and a master's in statistics.
"Of course we're paying him a lot," said Barry Gosin, Newmark's chief executive. "We need someone to forecast conditions, not regurgitate what's happened." 
 Sumitomo Realty & Development (N.Y.) just hired a building manager at 666 Fifth Avenue, at 53d Street. The new hire has less experience than his predecessor, but more financial education and savvy.
"I paid more than I had expected to, but less than we historically had to pay," said John Marazzo, a Sumitomo vice president.
After five years of downsizing and red ink, the real estate industry is growing -- and thus hiring -- again. But now it has a new problem: No one can quite figure out what to pay for what.
"Compensation goes as the industry goes -- it was down, and now it's going up," said Arthur Zabarkes, director of New York University's Real Estate Institute.
That is obviously true for brokers, whose compensation is tied directly to the size and quantity of deals they do. But for salaried people it is more complicated than that.
"There's a real need to understand what compensation packages you need to get and keep good people," said Karen L. Frank, vice president of marketing for the Building Owners & Managers Association International, which has hooked up with the Arthur Andersen accounting firm to do an annual real estate compensation survey.
The confusion is understandable. The skills needed to do a decent job have multiplied exponentially. Brokers must navigate the financial details of complex deals. Property and asset managers must file intricate reports to institutional owners. Building managers must be as handy with tenant relations as they are with a wrench.
THE result is that M.B.A.'s now reign where high school graduates once ruled.
"Companies are asking for sophisticated numbers crunchers who are equally comfortable with the languages of math and of sales," said Mary Ward, president of MacInnis, Ward, the New York recruiting firm. Even for property managers, who are often responsible for the workings of several buildings, knowledge of building mechanics has become secondary.
"It's easier to tell an M.B.A. how to cool a building than it is to explain financial goals to a building engineer," said David E. Schenkel, Cushman & Wakefield's new manager of asset services in New Jersey, who is looking to hire managers.
All other things being equal, such educated people should be making much more than their predecessors. But all things are not equal: The persistent recession dumped a huge number of qualified people onto the job market. The big, as yet unanswered, question remains which of the two competing forces -- the growing demand for good people versus the growing supply of such people -- rules the compensation numbers.
Outside New York, it still seems to be a buyer's -- translation: hirer's -- market.
"There are a lot of talented people looking to change jobs, but we have not really had to pay a lot more for them," said S. Kenan Manson 3d, senior vice president of national operations for Compass, Equitable Real Estate's leasing and management arm.
Gerard V. Schumm, a vice president of the Stamford, Conn.-based Axiom Real Estate Management, agrees.
"You can certainly get better people for $85,000 today than you could get before the recession," he said.
As in so many other things, though, the drum beats a different rhythm in New York. "Five years ago you could get a property manager for $35,000 to $70,000," said Edward A. Riguardi, chairman of the real estate firm Colliers/ABR. "Today that range is $65,000 to well into the six figures."
BOMA's numbers do indicate that for most job classifications, New Yorkers command richer pay packages. One example: The median cash compensation for a senior property manager in New York was $89,225 last year, the highest in the nation. The median for senior property managers for the real estate industry nationwide was just $65,600.
When commissions are involved, though, comparisons get knocked askew. Leasing was the only job category BOMA looked at in which New Yorkers lagged behind some other cities. One reason, suggests Ellen Valles, an Arthur Andersen compensation specialist, is that New York landlords often hire salaried leasing agents, rather than commissioned consultants, and people on fixed salary do not benefit as quickly from a recovering market.
Commercial Real Estate Women-New York, a professional association of women with at least 10 years' experience, recently did its own compensation survey. It found that 79 percent of those members who responded to the survey made over $100,000 last year; in 1993, only 32 percent topped the six-digit mark. Since much of CREW's membership is made up of commissioned brokers, those numbers reflect a recovering market more than they do any change in base salaries.
OF course, most industries pay their New York people better than their counterparts elsewhere. But there is more to the real estate compensation discrepancy than just geography. Property managers and leasing agents are generally running larger buildings here. Moreover, employers other than landlords and brokerages are competing for their services.
Financial services firms are hiring real estate specialists as security analysts to evaluate Real Estate Investment Trusts -- publicly traded entities that invest in real estate and pay at least 95 percent of their taxable income as dividends. The REITs themselves are vying for analysts to evaluate properties they might buy. And they are looking for managers who can deal with the voluminous reporting requirements of the public market.
"Our leasing director must also deal with the Wall Street analysts," said Thomas A. Rizk, president of Cali Realty Corporation, a New Jersey-based REIT formed by the Cali family last year. "Of course he expects a bigger bonus than when we were private."
As public entities, REITs like Cali also can give their managers stock options, and private companies competing for the same talent must up the salary ante to stay even.
Real-estate service firms, facing increasing competition for building-management and leasing contracts as well as for tenant representation assignments, are among the ones most readily paying the higher tariffs.
"The number of people available has held back compensation a bit, but it's certainly not a wash," said Mr. Schenkel of Cushman & Wakefield. "There is substantial money available for the best skills."
INDEED, executive recruiters say that service firms are paying as much as $65,000 for an M.B.A fresh from Wharton, and $100,000 for a financial analyst who can back up brokers on complex deals. And they are paying senior asset managers upward of $175,000 -- not to mention hefty bonuses for bringing in new business.
"So many buildings are owned by institutions today, and institutional owners are more likely to put management contracts out for bid every few years," Ms. Ward said.
Those asset and property managers who spent the recessionary years keeping sinking buildings afloat are getting the highest pay of all. "People with a distressed asset will pay heavily for someone who will make the problems go away," Mr. Manson said.
People who are not willing to pay the higher numbers are simply not finding the talent. Ms. Ward speaks of one client that wanted to upgrade its accounting staff. "They wanted us to find them C.P.A.'s for the same $55,000 a year they've been paying their general accountants," she said. "They won't find anyone for under $75,000."
In the public sector, where pay traditionally lags, jobs are already going begging. Earlier this year the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey put out a search for a new leasing person for the World Trade Center. It was not prepared to pay above $100,000 for that person, and it was not satisfied with the applicants who were willing to work for less.
"I was surprised that there was so little interest from dynamic people," said Charles A. Maikish, the Trade Center's director, who took someone without much commercial experience from another Port Authority department. "A few years ago we would have had a lot of takers."
Lower-level, but trainable, hires have their allure in the private sector, too. The Edward S. Gordon Company has been hiring college graduates for as little as $21,000 and putting them into areas like market research to learn the business.
"Real estate, even in down times, has a certain cachet," said Joseph R. Harbert, Gordon's senior managing director. "Young people come in at bargain prices because they perceive a good career path."

GRAPHIC: Charts: "On Location, Too, It's Location, Location, Location" shows pay for various real-estate positions in New York City. "Same Job, Different City, Different Pay" shows total conpensation for various job titles. (Source: BOMA International/Arthur Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (59%); 8830 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (59%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); SUMITOMO REALTY & DEVELOPMENT CO LTD (57%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (90%); COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE WOMEN-NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (90%); COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE WOMEN-NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; WAGES AND SALARIES; INDUSTRY PROFILES REAL ESTATE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SALARY SURVEYS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



367 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Wars: Old vs. New

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
IS the state heating up for a newspaper war? Some knowledgeable followers, and sometime-critics, of Connecticut's news media say that seems to be the case following the announcement that the aggressive Journal Register Company of Trenton, N.J., is raising its stake considerably in Connecticut journalism.
The Journal Register, which already owns The New Haven Register, the state's second-largest daily newspaper, and smaller dailies in Bristol and Torrington, now is buying more than 45 publications, mostly weekly newspapers and mostly in Connecticut, from Capital Cities/ ABC Inc. 
 "It's our firm belief that we can provide better service to advertisers and readers through these acquisitions, which will provide more reach for advertisers and more information for readers," said Robert M. Jelenic, president and chief executive officer of the Journal Register, in a prepared statement.
Ten of the weeklies, known as the Imprint Newspapers, are clustered in towns south, west and north of Hartford, which puts the Journal Register in direct confrontation, particularly for advertising dollars, with The Hartford Courant, the state's leading daily in both circulation and advertising for several decades.
On one day in the middle of March, The New Haven Register and The Hartford Courant, not surprisingly, put different spins on the Journal Register news. The Register ran the story on its front page, saying that the new acquisitions would "greatly increase" the presence of the Journal Register Company in Connecticut and then quoted a newspaper broker from Rochester, N.Y., to back up that claim. The Courant ran the story on the first page of its business section, including a statement from a financial analyst in Washington, D.C., that owning community newspapers is a tough business.
The Courant story also said that, after adding the Milford Citizen, the only daily involved in the transaction, to its three existing daily papers, the Journal Register Company would have a daily circulation in Connecticut of only 143,088 and Sunday circulation of 146,108. The circulation of the Courant, "the state's largest newspaper," the story added, is 241,102 daily and 317,767 Sundays. (Two days later, however, The Courant ran a correction, noting that the paper's circulation as of last Sept. 25, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations, was 226,553 daily and 314,166 Sunday.) Dennis Schain, the spokesman for The Courant, has not downplayed the significance of the Journal Register's new acquisitions in Connecticut. "It has the potential to heat up the competitive environment," he said. "We're confident we will remain the state's leading newspaper. We're taking a look at our entire operation and will consider any changes that would be necessary given the new situation."
In Trenton, N.J., Diane Pardee, the spokesperson for Journal Register, indicates that the new situation may even become newer. "We're a young, growing company," she said, "and we're looking at additional acquisitions."
According to the Journal Register's 1994 annual report, the company has "arranged a credit facility of $645 million, which is available to us to continue to make strategic acquisitions."
What makes the square-off more intriguing is that it pits one of the country's newest newspaper groups against the paper that takes pride in being the oldest. The Journal Register was founded in July of 1990, created out of some of the newspaper properties of Ingersoll Publications. The Courant, now owned by Times Mirror Corporation of Los Angeles, was established in 1764 and is described as "the oldest continuously published newspaper in America."
Maureen E. Croteau, head of the Department of Journalism at the University of Connecticut, said she believed that The Courant "will have to pay attention now that Journal Register has a good block of dailies and weeklies in the state."
The day of traditional newspaper wars, "two big papers in a city going head to head, fighting it out on page one," is long gone, however, she said. Most medium-sized cities no longer have competing papers. Newspaper wars are now fought in board rooms, in how many acquisitions newspaper chains can make to swell total circulation, in advertising incentives they can offer. The real casualties of a new-style newspaper war in Connecticut, she said, would not be the big papers but the smaller ones.
The case of the Journal Register papers competing against The Courant, she said, "is like two big fierce dogs walking around." Both big dogs are well able to take care of themselves, but papers like The Middletown Press and The New Britain Herald, both already wafer-thin for lack of advertising, could be in danger of being acquired, or just ceasing to exist. She said she doesn't take any comfort from the idea that the Journal Register Company may be looking around for more small papers in Connecticut, citing a well-known case from last year. That was when the Journal Register was establishing a new Sunday paper at its recently purchased Torrington Register Citizen and its management fired a reporter because she wanted to include the fact there were some delivery problems in her story about the first Sunday issue. Two other employees of the paper later quit in protest.
"That doesn't bode well for an organization that should care for its editorial product," Ms. Croteau said. She added that she doesn't believe that The New Haven Register has improved its local coverage, "or anything else," since it became part of the Journal Register Company.
Jerry Dunklee, the chairman of the journalism department at Southern Connecticut State University in New Haven, said he was concerned over what he calls the "monopolization issue, fewer and fewer companies controlling more and more newspapers."
What happens, he said, is that papers on which people in small towns depend for local news don't get much of such news because the emphasis turns to stories that can go in all the papers.
"You get all the news that's of general interest to a whole bunch of folks," he said. "That misserves and disserves each of the local communities. It waters down the news people have come to rely on."
Joseph Zerbey 4th had worked for The Bristol Press for 25 years, the last 8 as publisher, when the paper was acquired by the Journal Register Company in 1993.
He could have stayed on, but elected not to, and is now president of the York (Pa.) Newspaper Company, which prints morning, afternoon and Sunday papers in that city.
Mr. Zerbey says he has no rancor toward the Journal Register and that he feels that Robert Jelenic "runs a good company and, no question, is going to be a major competitor for print media in Connecticut. Bob will turn the heat up. And I think other papers will be absorbed."
One person watching the evolving situation a bit closer than most is one of the few family publishers left in the state.
He is William Pape 2d, representing the third generation of Papes to run The Waterbury Republican. He indicates he is somewhat mystified by the sale by Capital Cities/ABC of its weekly newspapers to the Journal Register Company.
"It's interesting," he said. "Capital Cities/ABC are pretty sharp operators. I thought that maybe they got sick and tired of doing business in Connecticut, a state going dead slow, and everyone holding their breath for the economy to turn around."
Meanwhile, Mr. Pape said he is not too concerned. "We turn out good papers," he said.
"We give readers and customers a lot for their money and we have a lot of loyal readers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JRC (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (71%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: JOURNAL REGISTER CO; CAPITAL CITIES/ABC INC; NEW HAVEN REGISTER (NEWSPAPER) JOURNAL REGISTER CO (96%); ABC INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOURNAL REGISTER CO; CAPITAL CITIES/ABC INC; NEW HAVEN REGISTER (NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); AUDITS (50%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



368 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Dairy Farms Drying Up in the Town of Washington

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: TOWN OF WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A HUNDRED years ago there were about a hundred dairy farms in the Town of Washington. Soon there will be only two.
By mid-September Davie's Hollow Farm, operated by John Nye, a 34-year-old native of the town, a 4-H Club member in his youth, an agriculture major in college and a tenant dairy farmer since 1981, will move his family and 600 Holstein cows to 80 acres in Delta, Utah. 
 For John, his wife, Maria, and their children -- Gregory, 9; Peter, 6, and Katharine, 3 -- leaving their hometown, families and friends will be a wrenching experience.
The exodus of farmers from the state and sometimes from the dairy business, said Shirley Ferris, the state's Commissioner of Agriculture, results from "the low price of milk, the high cost of equipment and doing business, and residential development that created a scarcity of land."
Her own family's dairy farm in Newtown, one of 10 left in Fairfield County, operates with 145 cows. "We are fortunate," she said. "Our neighbors value the idea of a farm."
That has not been the case in Washington, where the majesty of the hilly landscape is being preserved by people wealthy enough to buy huge farms and convert them to elegant private residences, or by cluster housing development.
"We are surrounded by residential neighbors," said Mr. Nye. "They complain about the smells, or don't like the look of dry corn stalks, or object to herbicides that might contaminate the water. I try, but I haven't been too successful at peacefully coexisting with an increasingly suburban population."
Michael J. Cherniske, one of the two remaining farmers in Washington, is also thinking of moving. "I thought I would be here forever," he said, "but I can make $5,000 a month more in Virginia or Tennessee, or maybe in Utah." His 230-acre, family-owned farm was started by his grandfather.
Over the years, as Mr. Nye's business grew, he rented more and more land, until now he has 35 landlords for 247 fields within a 20-mile radius in nine towns. Rents run from zero for mowing abandoned lots (he keeps what he mows for feed) to $20 an acre for growing corn.
"Cost control is a problem chasing around to all those places," he said, "especially in heavy snow." The price of milk will be $1 per hundred pounds lower in Utah, he said, but the cost of doing business will be much lower than it is in Connecticut.
Milk prices, controlled by the Federal Government since the 30's to protect farmers from unscrupulous middlemen, have fluctuated in Connecticut between $12 and $14 per hundred pounds since the 70's. In the last five years the lower figures have prevailed. But at the same time, farms disappeared and farming costs rose.
"Fewer farms mean higher prices charged by fewer equipment dealers and repair services," said Douglas J. Di Mento, spokesman for Agri-Mark, a New England dairy co-operative based in Methuen, Mass., to which Mr. Nye belongs. The members' milk is sold to Hood, Sealtest, Stew Leonard's and Baskin-Robbins, among others.
According to the state's Department of Agriculture, there are 302 farms in the state today, 70 of them in Litchfield County. In 1970, there were 1,127 statewide and 127 in Litchfield, where 6 went out of business last year alone.
"You can't afford to buy land here just to farm it," said John Potter, who with his brother, Timothy, runs Washington's second remaining dairy farm. "We own 100 acres and farm 600 more. John Nye doesn't own any land, his growth couldn't be sustained."
MR. POTTER plans to stay, "but our income is mostly from selling frozen cattle embryos to France, England, Holland and Japan," he said. "Other farmers have diversified into selling hay, sweet corn, fruits and vegetables. And most wives are working."
Another form of diversification is renting houses to weekenders from New York City, said Robert M. Seymour, owner of Spring Hill Farm, near the Nyes's home. "It's as profitable as farming," he said.
He sold his dairy herd in 1974, but keeps about 20 head of beef cattle. He has been approached often to sell his land, but he resists. "A rich buyer will take over a big place, put a lot of money into it and after a year or two put it up for sale," he said. "That inflates our land values and makes taxes high for everybody."
Carolyn Klemm, co-owner with her husband, David, of Klemm Real Estat here, said: "Occasionally we go out and solicit farms for very rich buyers. In the 80's we sold a lot of large dairy farms as residences. Linda Allard, the fashion designer, bought one, and Ivan Lendl bought 875 acres in Goshen. There are also people who moved their businesses from New York to Greenwich and live out here now. And sometimes several people get together and buy land to put into a land trust."
The farmers cannot compete for the large land masses that they need to grow feed for their herds. "Thirty percent of our income goes for growing corn and hay," said Mr. Nye, and for the purchase of soybeans, oat hulls, cottonseed, bakery and potato waste products.
The feed is kept in enormous three-sided cement bunkers and hauled out as needed by payloaders. Runoff from the bunkers, and from animal waste and feed cultivation is a constant problem on the hilly land.
State laws forbid polluting water from any source, whether farming or industrial. Noncompliance can trigger fines of $1,000 to $25,000 a day, although the higher figure has never been imposed on a farmer. Correcting a violation can be extremely expensive, and on rented land it is not worth it.
"If Connecticut follows Vermont in banning manure spreading in winter because of runoff during thaws, I would have to spend about $200,000 on building and maintaining a storage bunker," said Mr. Nye.
HE estimates that his investment in Utah will be $1,000 per cow compared with $5,000 per cow in Connecticut. "In Utah we will be going out of dairy farming," he said, "and into dairying only -- strictly tending and milking cows. We will buy all our feed."
The land in Utah is flat and dry. The annual seven inches of rain produces negligible runoff, and prodigious amounts of alfalfa and other feeds are grown by irrigation with water flowing from the Wasatch and Rocky Mountains.
Alan Rindlisbacher, Director of National Business and Economic Development for Utah, said the state would "welcome the Nyes with open arms," adding that "Millard County, where they are moving, has been targeted as a marketing niche for dairy farmers."
Utah's crops are the beginning of an economic chain that the state wants to link with farmers who produce milk that in turn produces cheese and butter, "keeping more jobs and dollars in the state," Mr. Rindlisbacher said.
Between now and September, Mr. Nye will sell off 200 of his 800 cows, settle up with all his landlords and arrange for the $70,000 he invested in the Agri-Mark Cooperative to be refunded over a customary 7-year period. He will pick up the option on his Utah land and start building his new house, barn, milking and storage units. During construction his family will rent a house and space for the cows on somebody else's farm.
"No more growing of feed," he said. "More specialization is the trend -- putting all the eggs in one basket."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Nye at Davie's Hollow Farm in the Town of Washington. He is moving his family and cows to Utah. (Stephen Castagneto for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; WASHINGTON (CONN); ; UTAH; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; FARMERS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES; MILK; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS DAIRY FARMING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MILK (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FAMILY (89%); CORN FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (68%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: NYE, JOHN ; FERRIS, SHIRLEY (COMR); CHARLES, ELEANOR JOHN NYE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



369 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: ROAD AND RAIL: Getting There (and Paying for It) in the Year 2000;
In Bergen County, A Plan to Create Rail Commuters

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Few public officials are more involved in questions of road design, traffic congestion and public transportation than Chester Mattson, the planning director of Bergen County, which has one of the nation's most heavily traveled grids of Interstate and commuter highways.
Mr. Mattson has been a busy man. Since the last 21-mile stretch of Route 287 was completed in 1992, cutting acoss the northwest corner of the county, he has spearheaded a campaign to expand the access ramps at one of New Jersey's most congested interchanges, the intersection of Routes 4 and 17 in Paramus. 
 Now he is turning his attention from the county's roads to its railroad tracks, some of which are used only by freight trains. In an interview, he described his vision of the future for Bergen County transportation.
Q. The access ramp improvements planned for the interchange at Routes 4 and 17 can move forward only if an agreement is reached to acquire part of the site of a vacant Alexander's department store, which is to be demolished for a new retail complex. Do you expect problems?
A. The project has been approved and budgeted by the state at $102 million, and construction is to begin in 1998. The state is now negotiating with Alexander's, and I don't expect any snags. That is because the state could, if it had to, condemn the property. For me, this is just a necessary beginning in a large-scale transportation and planning effort.
Q. Why is public transit so important now?
A. Our economy can't function without the access we have to major roads, most of which pass through the county on the way to somewhere else. But we have come to a point where the cars and trucks that pass through us, combined with those that remain, threaten to overpower the system.
All our roads are used as local roads. People get on the turnpike to go two or three towns. They forget that a highway like the Garden State Parkway was designed for regional travel, not local travel. We have to come up with the means to relieve the congestion that has resulted from a sea change in our economy.
Q. What has caused the sea change?
A. Part of it has been what planners call the crashing together of the baby boom generation and the interstate highway system. There are just more people and more cars. And there has been an explosion of employment in the suburbs. In fact, 67 percent of the country's employment growth since 1960 has been in the suburbs of the major cities, Bergen County among them.
Q. What kind of public transportation do you have in mind?
A. We would build on the existing rail lines. There are three passenger lines, the Bergen, the Main Line and the Pascack Valley, going through the county, and we have 28 stations on those lines.
We also have two lines, the West Shore Line and the Susquehanna, that were designed to carry either passengers or freight, but now carry only freight. We need to add stations, and find a way to revive them as passenger and freight lines.
All of this -- five different lines -- should be integrated with the Secaucus Transfer Station, which is scheduled to open in the year 2001. Then we could also integrate the Hudson-Bergen trolley, the electrified light rail system that is planned to start in Bayonne, go to Hoboken in its first phase, then be extended to Weehawken and Ridgefield.
Q. What stands in the way of putting passenger trains on the freight lines?
A. The difficult part is trying to find the right balance of freight and transit on a limited amount of tracks. Rail freight has been growing rapidly because of the Pacific Rim trade that weighs in at Northwest ports and is sent by train to Port Elizabeth, Newark and Kearny.
Q. What role would the new Secaucus Transfer Station play in the system?
A. It will be crucial, since it is being designed to serve intra-suburban commuters. It will also mean that anybody getting on a train in Bergen County can transfer in Secaucus to get to midtown Manhattan, instead going to Hoboken as they must now do.
Q. Where would the money come from for changes to the five existing lines?
A. Both the state and New Jersey Transit have bonding authority, which could be used. There is a very large Federal transit program in New Jersey called the Urban Core that has money to invest. Not long ago it would have been inconceivable to spend public money on rail lines, but now I think we've reached the point where we have to invest to protect our economic assets.

GRAPHIC: Photo: To Chester P. Mattson, the planning director of Bergen County, rail commuting is the answer to traffic congestion. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Map of existing and proposed railroads in New Jersey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BERGEN COUNTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERGEN COUNTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; BERGEN COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RAILROADS; TRANSPORTATION URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); APPROVALS (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; MATTSON, CHESTER P

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



370 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2317 words

HEADLINE: Around the State

 BODY:

Music
 
CAPE MAY JAZZ FESTIVAL The Marlon Jordan Quintet, the Lenore Raphael Quintet, Reenie Upchurch, the Radam Schwartz Quartet and the Rosella Clemmons Washington Quartet. Friday, Saturday and next Sunday. Tickets: $40, $15 and $12. The Marquis de Lafayette Hotel and Carney's Tavern. Beach Drive, Cape May. (609) 884-7277.
 
CHURCH OF ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST The Riverside Symphonia presents pieces spanning two centuries. Piano Concerto No. 2 by Saint-Saens, Symphony No. 94 by Haydn, and the "Creatures of Prometheus" Overture by Beethoven. Saturday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $20 and $15. Bridge Street, Lambertville. (215) 862-3300.
 
RESURRECTION PARISH CHURCH "An Evening of Irish Music." Saturday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $10 and $6. 651 Mill Avenue, Randolph. (201) 503-1569.
 
STATE THEATER Four young soloists perform with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra at the Award Concert of the 1995 Young Artists Auditions. Friday, 8 P.M. Free; reservations required. 19 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (800) 255-3476.
 
SYMPHONY HALL The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra presents Andre Watts, pianist. The program will include Scarlatti's Three Sonatas for keyboard, Mozart's Fantasie in D minor and others. Next Sunday, 3 P.M. Tickets: $65, $50, $35, $25. (201) 624-8203. 1030 Broad Street, Newark.
 
UNITY CONCERTS "The Maestro Series of Unity Concerts." Stephen Hough, pianist, makes his first solo appearance. Next Sunday, 3:30 P.M. Tickets: $25, $20, $15. Montclair High School Community Auditorium, Park and Chestnut Streets, Montclair. (201) 744-6770.
 
WESTMINSTER CHOIR COLLEGE The Westminster Concert Bell Choir spring concert. Saturday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $5; students and the elderly, $3. The Playhouse at Westminster Choir College of Rider University, at Hamilton Avenue and Walnut Lane, Princeton. (609) 921-2663.
 
Theater
 
BURGDORFF CULTURAL CENTER A full-staged reading of Haris Orkin's "Baggage" by the Playwrights Theater of New Jersey and Arts. Maplewood. Saturday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $6. (201) 378-2133.
 
COUNT BASIE THEATER "The Secret Garden," the musical adapted from Frances Hodgson Burnett's children's novel. Friday, 8 P.M; Saturday, 3 and 8 P.M.; next Sunday, 3 P.M. Tickets: $18 and $14. The elderly get a $2 discount. 99 Monmouth Street, Red Bank. (908) 747-0014.
 
CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY "Two Hah Hahs and a Homeboy," with Ruby Dee, Ossie Davis and their son, Guy Davis. Previews run Tuesday through Friday, 8 P.M., with opening night on Saturday, 8 P.M. Through May 21. Tickets: $20, $25; opening night, $35. 7 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (908) 249-5560.
 
GEORGE STREET PLAYHOUSE "Off-Key," a musical by Richard Adler and Bill C. Davis. Today and Saturday, 2 and 8 P.M.; Tuesday through Friday, 8 P.M.; next Sunday, 2 P.M. Through April 30. Tickets: $30. 9 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (908) 246-7717.
 
McCARTER THEATER The Triangle Club presents "Rhyme & Punishment," a musical revue. Friday and Saturday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $17, $19, $20 and $22. Next Sunday, 7:30 P.M. Tickets: $15, $17, &18 and $20. 91 University Place, Princeton. (609) 683-8000.
 
PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE Lerner and Loewe's "Brigadoon." Through May 28. Tickets: $29-$44. Wednesday through Sunday, 8 P.M.; matinees Thursday, 2 P.M., and Saturday and Sunday, 3 P.M. Brookside Drive, Millburn. (201) 376-4343.
 
Museums and Galleries
 
BERGEN MUSEUM A series of photography exhibitions created by teen-agers. Through May 21. Suggested admission: adults, $2.50; children, $1. 327 East Ridgewood Avenue, Paramus. (201) 265-1248.
 
COMMON BOUNDARIES Visitors to the gallery can pick up a brush and paint over someone else's painting. It's all part of "Art Amok," an experiment in creative anarchy. Through next Sunday. Monday to Friday, 7 to 10 P.M.; Saturday and Sunday, 11 A.M. to 7 P.M. Free admission. 68 Mercer Street, Jersey City. (201) 333-0949.
 
MONMOUTH MUSEUM "Japanese Expression in Paper." The upper gallery will be devoted to five sculptors from the paper-making town of Imadate in the prefecture of Fukui in Japan. Opens Tuesday. Admission: $3. Tuesday through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Sunday, 1 to 5 P.M. Through June 11. Brookdale Community College, 765 Newman Springs Road, Lincroft. (908) 747-2266.
 
MONTCLAIR ART MUSEUM "Native American Jewelry" surveys the evolution of this Southwestern art. Through June 25. Tuesday through Saturday, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M., Thursday and Sunday, 1 P.M. to 5 P.M. Admission, $4; the elderly and students with ID, $3. 3 South Mountain Avenue. (201) 746-5555.
 
MORRIS MUSEUM "Star Trek: Federation Science," an interactive exhibition based on the themes of "Star Trek." Daily, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Through April 30. Admission: $9, the elderly, $8; students, $7; children under 12, $6. 6 Normandy Heights Road, Morristown. (201) 538-8069.
 
NEWARK MUSEUM "Explore Korea," will allow young vistors and families to experience the traditional lifestyle of a Korean household. The exhibit will feature an orientation area and a re-creation of a 1930's Korean farmhouse. Opens Thursday in the Junior Museum. Through January 1995. "Project 4: William T. Williams," an African-American artist who made a series of large-scale abstract paintings, recognized as some of the best abstract work of his generation. Twelve of the series on display. Through May 14. "A World of Their Own: 20th-Century American Folk Art," a show focusing on art made in isolation. Through May 14. "Gods and Goddesses in Indian Art" features paintings, cloth hangings and tiny brass icons from the 11th to 19th centuries. Through June. "The Arts of Nepal" includes sculptures and paintings of the Himalayan kingdom. Through June. "African Design: Heirs to the Trans-Saharan Trade" examines the shared designs in North and Sub-Saharan African arts in the last 100 years. Through June 1996. Wednesday through Sunday, noon to 5 P.M. 49 Washington Street. (201) 596-6550.
 
NOYES MUSEUM "Messages From the Planet: Artists Work to Save the Earth," two- and three-dimensional works by artists in the mid-Atlantic region. Through June 18. "Looking Due South: Paintings of South Jersey by Glenn Rudderow." Through July 9. Wednesday through Sunday, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. Admission, $3; the elderly, $1.50; students and children under 18, 50 cents. Free admission on Fridays. Lily Lake Road, Oceanville. (609) 652-8848.
 
PATERSON MUSEUM "Transitions" are painting and computer photo constructions by Robert Anderson. Through April 30. "Songs of My People," an exhibition featuring 31 African-American photojournalists. Closes today. Tuesday through Friday, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; Saturday and Sunday, 12:30 to 4:30 P.M. 2 Market Street. (201) 881-3874.
 
SETON HALL UNIVERSITY An exhibition of Ukrainian folk art, showing samples of pysanky (Ukrainian Easter eggs), ceramics, woodcarvings, clothing and embroidery. Through May 28. Monday through Friday, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Walsh Library Gallery. South Orange. (201) 761-9476.
 
SHEILA NUSSBAUM GALLERY "Masters' Vision," featuring the paintings of Ruth Gikow. Opens Friday with a lecture by Jack Levine. Free. Through May 20. Monday through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursday, until 8 P.M. 341 Millburn Avenue, Millburn. (201) 467-1720.
 
TRENTON CITY MUSEUM The Trenton Artists Workshop Association presents the mixed-media work of Katharine Bruce. Through May 28. Tuesday through Saturday, 11 A.M. to 3 P.M.; Sunday, 2 to 4 P.M. Parkside Avenue and West State Street, Trenton. (609) 989-3632.
 
ZIMMERLI ART MUSEUM The Rutgers Collection of Original Illustrations for Children's Literature: "Riders Up! Preparing for a Pony Race," an exhibition of photographs and other materials by Barbara Beirne for her book about a young girl and her pony as they prepare for their first race. Through July 31. Wednesday through Sunday, noon to 5 P.M. Free. Rutgers, corner of George and Hamilton Streets, New Brunswick. (908) 932-7237.
 
Spoken Word
 
CLOSTER NATURE CENTER Horst Krekeler, a bonsai master from Germany, will demonstrate how to create a bonsai. Free. Next Sunday, 10 A.M. Piermont and Ruckman Road, Closter. (201) 568-3650.
 
FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY Anna Quindlen, novelist, will discuss "Living Out Loud: Life in the 1990's" in a Literary Society Lecture. Wednesday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $5. Wilson Auditorium, Dickinson Hall, Hackensack. (201) 692-7031.
 
JOHN HARMS THEATER "Poetry and Prose Series." Molly Peacock, author of three collections of poetry, will be the featured reader. Wednesday, 8 PM. Free. 30 North Van Brunt Street. Englewood. (201) 567-5797.
 
MONTCLAIR KIMBERLEY ACADEMY Dr. Farouk El-Baz, a geologist, will present a lecture on his book, "The Gulf War and the Environment." Thursday, 7:30 P.M. Free. 201 Valley Road, Montclair. (201) 746-9800.
 
NEW JERSEY STATE MUSEUM "New Jersey in World War I." Gerald E. Shenk, an assistant professor of history at Marymount College, discusses the agencies that most affected New Jersey citizens, including the Selective Service System, the Council of National Defense and the American Protective League. Saturday at 2 P.M. "New Jersey in World War II" John T. Cunningham, a historian of the state will discuss the scientific, industrial and social effects of the war on the state. Next Saturday at 2 P.M. Free. 205 West State Street, Trenton. (609) 292-6464.
 
SETON HALL UNIVERSITY Hanna Suchocka, Prime Minister of Poland from 1992 to 1993, will speak on "Eastern Europe: The Present and Future Political and Economic Landscape." Thursday, 6:30 P.M. Free. Chancellor's Suite of the Bishop Dougherty Student Center, South Orange. (201) 761-9098.
 
SOUTH ORANGE-MAPLEWOOD ADULT SCHOOL "Fifty Years Later: Reconstructing the Legacies of World War II," with Dr. Ralph Buultjens, an economics and political science professor at the New School. Wednesday, 7:30 P.M. Columbia High School, 17 Parker Avenue, Maplewood. (201) 378-7620.
 
Sports
 
FIGURE SKATING Tom Collins Presents "Tour of World Figure Skating Champions." April 29, 1 P.M. Tickets: $45 and $30. The Meadowlands. (201) 935-3900.
 
ICE HOCKEY Devils vs. Hartford, today; vs. Philadelphia, Saturday; vs. Pittsburgh, April 26; vs. Florida, April 28; vs. Quebec, April 30. The Meadowlands. (201) 935-3900.
 
MINOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Trenton Thunder vs. Bowie Bay Socks, April 24 at 7:05, and April 25 at 12:35 P.M.; vs. New Haven Ravens, April 28 at 7:05 P.M. and April 29 and 30 at 1:35 P.M. 1 Thunder Road, Trenton. (609) 394-3300.
 
PRO BASKETBALL Nets vs. Atlanta, Wednesday; vs. Washington, Friday; vs. Boston, next Sunday. The Meadowlands. (201) 935-3900.
 
For Children
 
FORUM THEATER GROUP "Free to Be . . . You and Me," conceived by Marlo Thomas. Wednesday, Saturday and next Saturday, 1 P.M. $8. 314 Main Street, Metuchen. (908) 548-0582.
 
NEWARK MUSEUM "Cosmic Questions," for ages 6 to 10, at 1 and 3 P.M., and "Journey Through Time and Space," for ages 9 and older, at 2 and 4 P.M. Saturday and Sunday through June 25. Adults, $2; children under 12, $1. 49 Washington Street. (201) 596-6550.
 
STATE THEATER Big Bird is missing in Sesame Street Live's "Where's the Birdie?" Today, 2 P.M. Tickets: $10.50, $12 and $15. 19 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (908) 247-7200.
 
ETC.
 
BROOKDALE COMMUNITY COLLEGE "Internet Basics." Bill Crosbie, PC specialist at the college, will offer an overview on the Internet, including the jargon, how to get on line and what to expect. Monday, 7 P.M. $35. 765 Newman Springs Road, Lincroft. (908) 224-2880.
 
DINNER AND THEATER The $42 ticket price includes a four-course meal and "Deep Space Noir," an interactive and futuristic detective story. Saturdays, 8 P.M. Il Giardino Restaurant. 41 Ridgedale Avenue, Cedar Knolls. (201) 301-0562.
 
EARTH DAY WALKING TOUR "The Signs of Spring." The National Park Service celebrates the 25th Earth Day by closing Morristown National Historical Park to traffic. Saturday, 1 P.M. (201) 539-2085.
 
ROTHMAN CENTER "Native American Arts Festival." Traders and artists will display rugs, pottery, stone carvings, blankets and orginal artwork. Saturday, 10 A.M. to 8 P.M.; next Sunday, 10 A.M. to 7 P.M. Tickets: $8, and $6 for the elderly. Fairleigh Dickinson University, Hackensack. (914) 357-3252
 
ST. LUKE'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH Six panels of the Names Project AIDS Memorial Quilt are on display. Through next Sunday. Weekdays, 8 A.M. to 4 P.M. Main Street, Gladstone. (908) 234-0002.
 
NEW JERSEY FILM FESTIVAL "North by Northwest," Friday; "Hoop Dreams," Saturday. All show times 7 P.M. Tickets: $4. Rutgers University in New Brunswick, Milledoler Hall, George Street and Seminary Place. (908) 932-8482.
 
A Night of Dance
 
The Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble will perform at a benefit for the Arts Council of the Essex Area. The ensemble was founded in 1974 by Mr. Ailey to showcase the talents of dancers at his school, the American Dance Center.
MONTCLAIR HIGH SCHOOL Park and Chestnut Streets, Montclair. Saturday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $50, $30, $25 and $20. (201) 744-1717.
 
Art of the Print
 
Works by Andy Warhol, Sondra Freckelton (pictured above), Jacob Lawrence and others are on display at the "What is a Print?" exhibit. Browsers and art collectors have until June 25 to see or purchase the prints, which range from early 19th century to contemporary works.
MONTCLAIR ART MUSEUM
3 South Mountain Avenue. Admission, $4; the elderly
and students with ID, $3.
(201) 746-5555.
 
A Bipartisan Romance
 
James Carville and Mary Matalin, political consultants on opposing sides of the 1992 Presidential campaign, share their experiences in a lecture titled "He Says, She Says:
An Inside View of the Presidency."
WILLIAM PATERSON COLLEGE 300 Pompton Road, Wayne. Friday, 8 P.M. Tickets: $15, $12 for senior citizens and $10 for students. (201) 595-2371.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); 

CITY: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: RED BANK MANUFACTURING CO LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; THEATER; ART; CONCERTS AND RECITALS KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); RELIGION (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: ANDRE WATTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



371 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: UP FRONT: ON THE MAP;
Teterboro, Where One of Every Four Residents Is a Councilman

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
By day, Teterboro has a working population of about 15,000; it's home to more than 90 companies, and Teterboro Airport is New Jersey's second largest, after Newark International. But after business hours, the population drops to the 22 residents of Huyler Street, the only residential block in the square-mile industrial community. The other day, the Borough Manager, Peter T. Neillands, agreed to talk to us about Teterboro, a place that "everybody has an opinion on and nobody has a solution for."
Q. Who lives in Teterboro?
A. There's only 10 or 11 dwelling houses, two of them multiple-family and the rest single-family homes. Most of the people are tenants; some of the houses are owned by real-estate conglomerates and other ones by industry. Most of the residents are blue-collar workers, largely retired. I would say the average tenure of people living here is 25 years or so. 
 Q. Does everyone know everyone else in Teterboro?
A. Oh yeah, but they're not people that sit on their front porch every night and talk about everything else in the world. They're private people; they go about their business. Somebody needs help, they put out their hand and try to help them out.
Q. How does Teterboro function with only 22 residents?
A. We have five councilman elected at large, and they choose one among themselves as the Mayor. For services, we have an agreement that's going into effect pretty soon, with Moonachie and Little Ferry, for police service. Moonachie takes care of the south half of the borough; Little Ferry takes care of the north. We contract for garbage removal. We contract with Hasbrouck Heights for fire and ambulance services.
Q. Periodically, officials from neighboring municipalities have charged that Teterboro is a tax haven for companies that, because of the borough's small demand for services, pay only a fraction of the property taxes paid by businesses in other towns. They contend that this is unfair to the rest of Bergen County, where many of Teterboro's 15,000 workers live. Hoping to change that, Rose Heck, the local Assemblywoman and Mayor of Hasbrouck Heights, wants the State Legislature to adopt a bill to dissolve and divide Teterboro between neighboring South Hackensack and her own Hasbrouck Heights. What do people in Teterboro think of this?
A. They would like to consolidate all their services, but they want to retain an independent government. In the towns that are contiguous to us, the valuation of properties is much higher than ours, and the tax rate is much higher.
If we merged, the companies here would be affected. And the residents would be affected because these companies that own the properties would pay more taxes -- so now your rent's going to go up. The maintenance of the properties has to go up. The idea would be to say, "Hey, maybe we'll kick these people out. We'll build apartments."
Now the rents are from $500 for multiple-family homes to $750 for single-family. They're old houses with little box rooms, pre-war vintage, with windows that come to up your knees. You can't do too much with them. One problem people always encounter: you can't get a king-size or queen-size bed in them because the doors aren't wide enough.
Q. Has the mix of residents changed in Teterboro?
A. No, the residential aspect has never changed. It's always had between 20 and 28 people. Everybody always took a shaded view of these people, as some kind of nefarious folks there living off the land. I don't think it's quite like that. It isn't the best place to live. It's very noisy, with the planes and the truck traffic, and then with the influx of Route 80 in the 60's right on top of it.
Q. Why do people stay, then?
A. Some people are just locked in here by the economy, or their economy, and then some people just as a way of life. NORIMITSU ONISHI

GRAPHIC: Photo: Huyler Street, the address of all 22 residents of Teterboro. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TETERBORO (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; NEILLANDS, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



372 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Readying Indian Point for the Long Haul

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: BUCHANAN

 BODY:
INDIAN POINT 3, shut for 25 months by management problems, is different these days: it smells of fresh paint, and it is crawling with inspectors from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, as managers prepare to ask in a few days for permission to reopen the reactor in mid-May.
But the owner, the New York Power Authority, says the bigger challenge is still ahead: making the plant run right for the long haul. Unless it can run well, the Power Authority's president, S. David Freeman, insists, it will not run at all, and the big challenge will come after the plant reopens. 
 First, though, it must have Federal permission to run. When the authority shut the reactor, in February 1993, after various mechanical and procedural problems came to light, it did so voluntarily, but it also promised to get the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's permission before starting up again.
So on Friday, 10 inspectors and a team leader were to finish two weeks of examining the plant. Among the issues were the status of fire protection: some of the actions that operators plan to take in case of fire might not be possible, according to internal analyses, because lighting and ventilation systems would fail. Other items to be resolved include whether the diesel generators, which would power emergency equipment in a blackout, are reliable; whether all the water intakes are properly protected from being blocked by shellfish; whether the control room air-conditioning is adequate, and various other plant systems' performance. The inspectors are also looking at maintenance records, operator training and other "human factors."
Another question is whether managers are responding appropriately to engineers or other staff members who raise safety questions. Two supervisors were disciplined in December and January for comments to a fire engineer who was raising safety issues; the authority's president said that the comments could reasonably have been considered harassment.
But a key ingredient of success, Mr. Freeman, the authority's president, said, would be the staff's ability to question all aspects of operations freely and make improvements. In the months leading up to the shutdown, he said, no one questioned operations, and mechanical problems built up. "By failure to rock the boat, it was sinking," he said.
Tomorrow the Nuclear Regulatory Commission team plans to meet at its headquarters outside Philadelphia to evaluate what it found; if everything meets with the inspectors' approval, the plant could be running again by mid-May. The commission does not plan to say anything until a public meeting is held near the plant on April 27, but Diane P. Screnci, a spokeswoman, said last week, "I haven't heard any bombshells."
"We don't believe that there's any reason why they won't be able to re-start at some point," Ms. Screnci said.
"Whether the mid-May date that they're aiming for is possible, I can't judge at this point," he added.
The long shutdown may, in fact, have addressed most of the problems within the thick, steel-reinforced concrete walls. Outside, though, the environment is as hostile as ever; the state's demand for electric power is still damped down by economic slowdown and technological advances, and the price of the main competing source of energy, natural gas, is stubbornly low.
That means tough competition for a power plant with 1,000 employees. The staff of the Environment Committee of the State Assembly calculated last year that power was available on the open market for 3 cents a kilowatt-hour -- the amount of power needed to run 10 hundred-watt lightbulbs for an hour -- but that the cost for Indian Point 3 was 4.4 cents. In fact, the cost last year was substantially higher, because $148 million was spent, and no power was produced. It was a dismal year, but the reactor is among the worst-performing in the country; it has run only about half the hours it could have since it was commissioned 19 years ago.
Now, Mr. Freeman says, the plant will have to leapfrog in the rankings and run better than three-quarters of the reactors in the United States or it will be closed on the ground that it is uneconomical.
"We intend to be in that category or we will just have to shut it down," Mr. Freeman said to officials gathered at the plant for an open house at the end of last month.
"The toughest part of our job up here is ahead of us," he said. "The restart is just the start; having this plant run both safety and with minimum risk, and economically, is a giant challenge."
Charles Komanoff, a power plant performance expert in New York, said that getting into the top quarter of all plants is a difficult, ever-harder task, because nuclear power plant performance has been improving nationwide. Right now, he said, it means operating about 85 percent of the time, against Indian Point's lifetime average of about 50 percent.
Some plants, in fact, have returned to service after lengthy shutdowns and performed well. Indian Point 2, the near-twin adjacent and run by Consolidated Edison, had personnel and equipment troubles in the early 80's but recently set a world record for days of continuous operation, more than 500.
Others have not returned. Before Mr. Freeman came to New York, he was the head of the Sacramento Municipal Utility District in California, where the Rancho Seco reactor had operated fitfully for years; after an extended period for repairs and a trial run, it broke down again and was scrapped.
Mr. Komanoff said in a telephone interview last week that the plant might run at 85 percent of capacity, justifying its operation. "If the thing ran that high, and also you managed to lock in some cost cutting from the old operations and maintenance levels, you would undercut the grid," he said, referring to power that can be purchased off the electric grid in lieu of running the reactor. The saving, he predicted, could be a few million dollars a year.
But more likely, he said, is that old parts begin to fail, the plant does not run nearly that well and major costs would follow. With the future of the plant far from certain, Power Authority officials acknowledged that they must fight the tendency of some employees to try to hide problems that could cost the plant money. That may have been what happened to the fire protection engineer who raised safety problems, officials said.
Mr. Freeman said that the authority had responded appropriately, by having William Cahill Jr., the chief nuclear officer, discipline the supervisors. "Cahill has chewed out everybody and his uncle," Mr. Freeman said. One supervisor was removed from issues involving fire protection, and, Mr. Freeman said of the fire engineers, "We're putting our arms around these people.'
Indian Point will run well, the managers insisted, because the people who work there have embarked on a "culture change" of paying excruciating attention to detail and questioning the safety impact of every error. For example, in a conference room where plant executives briefed officials and reporters last month, they displayed a blackboard on which a committee had written an extensive diagnosis of why a team of technicians had recently been sent to fix two switches that control water flows in the plant, with a work order that specified the wrong switches.
In nuclear plants, which have multiple redundant systems, the mistake is common and serious: if the reactor has two valves for each job and one is faulty, if the technicians take apart the one that is working right and look for a problem, the plant may be forced to shut because the only one left is faulty.
In the bad old days, said Leslie M. Hill, the resident manager, no one would have bothered to analyze why the error had occurred.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officials on a tour of the Indian Point 3 nuclear power plant, which may be restored to service in mid-May after a 25-month shutdown. (Pg. 1); S. David Freeman, president and chief executive officer of New York Power Authority. (Pg. 15) (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE POWER AUTHORITY; NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY INC (58%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (93%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE POWER AUTHORITY; NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (93%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (94%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (72%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (71%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; FREEMAN, S DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



373 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 5; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN UP CLOSE;
How the Budget Bite Might Feel

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Sometimes budget battles in Albany can seem no more urgent than the sound of distant thunder: a dull roar of name-calling, worst-case scenarios and best-case projections. But even Gov. George E. Pataki's supporters agree that his proposed budget cuts would cause some pain throughout the state, and opponents have organized protests. The Governor says the cuts are needed to close a budget gap of more than $4 billion and to pay for a $750 million tax cut that he insists is crucial for the state to have a competitive economy and attract businesses and jobs.
 Governor Pataki and legislative leaders are now wrangling over the severity of the reductions. To get a sense of how the city might be affected, the map below takes one borough -- Manhattan -- and details some ripples anticipated either directly from cuts in state aid or from belt-tightening by local agencies responding to reductions. Some of these scenarios are offered by the agencies themselves or by advocates for programs. In addition, reductions in state aid will be compounded by other cuts in city and Federal programs. 
 Many cuts proposed by the Governor are to agencies that operate throughout the city, so their potential effect on individual neighborhoods is hard to gauge precisely. For example, the planned 90-day limit on home relief -- welfare payments to some single adults -- could reduce state benefits $224 million out of $2.9 billion citywide. Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger estimates nearly $24 million of that would be in Washington Heights and Harlem. BRUCE LAMBERT
 
CUNY
 
 Raise annual tuition by $1,000, to $3,450
 Cut hundreds of full-time and part-time faculty jobs
 Eliminate several thousand classes
 
SUNY
 
 Fashion Institute of Technology
 Raise residents' annual tuition $200, to $2,300
 Raise nonresidents' annual tuition $400, to $5,450
 Early-retirement incentives to reduce faculty and staff
 
HEALTH and HOSPITALS CORPORATION
 
 Medicaid reductions proposed
 Bellevue Hospital Center $132 million, 37% of revenues
 Harlem Hospital $65 million, 27%
 Metropolitan Hospital $76 million, 35%
 
 Closing proposed
 Manhattan Children's Psychiatric Center
 Manhattan Alcoholism Treatment Center
 
TRANSPORTATION
 
 42d Street Shuttle Reduce service from 24 hours to 18.
 Roosevelt Island cut tram service Monday through Friday to 6:30 A.M.-11 P.M., from 6 A.M.-2:30 A.M.
 Cut weekend tram service to 8 A.M.-12:30 A.M., from 6 A.M.-3:30 A.M.
 Reduce local bus service in rush hours
 Raise fare to 25 cents from 10 cents
 Reduce security personnel
 Increase monthly parking garage fees to $89-$196, from $82-$180.
 West Side Highway Delay next year's planned start of $81 million reconstruction project from 59th Street to the Battery.
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 
 Harlem Urban Development Corporation Fold into State Urban Development Corporation, saving $3.5 million a year. Impact unclear.
 Harlem-Washington Heights-South Bronx Federal Economic Development Zone Cut in state's $10 million first-year contribution could jeopardize project, which also depends on matching city and Federal aid.
 
OTHER
 
 Hudson River Park Plans for 550-acre, 5-mile-long park with marinas and recreation on hold, pending review by state budget officials; $290 million project includes $98 million in state money.
 
(Sources: Manhattan Borough President, City University, Roosevelt Island Operating Corp., Fashion Institute of Technology, Greater New York Hospital Association, Harlem Urban Development Corp.)

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; MANHATTAN (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); TUITION FEES (86%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); MEDICAID (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (70%); CHILDREN (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



374 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2042 words

HEADLINE: Waving Goodbye To Ergonomics

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
IT will never be sound-bite material. And it seems curiously out of place, alongside "confiscatory taxation" and "welfare cheats," on the list of public evils that conservative Republicans want to eradicate from American society.
Yet ergonomics -- a discipline intended to design jobs and tools to fit the physical and psychological limits of people -- has become a bete noire of the conservative Republicans who control Congress. As part of their war on Government regulations, they are trying to derail an effort by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to develop an ergonomic standard to protect workers. 
 A year ago, the Government's ergonomic program seemed a sure thing. The rule-writing exercise started in 1990 during the Bush Administration. Republicans and Democrats, it appeared, agreed that ergonomic rules were needed to combat an epidemic of repetitive motion injuries afflicting hundreds of thousands of workers, from meatpackers to computer programmers.
But last November's election drastically changed the politics of ergonomics. Congressional conservatives view OSHA's ergonomic initiative as costly and time-consuming for business, based on good intentions but mushy science. The Congressional opponents are supported by powerful business lobbying groups, led by the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Federation of Independent Business.
Last month, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, added $3.5 million -- the estimated cost of OSHA's ergonomics program -- to the agency's budget cuts. "The way to get bureaucrats' attention is to cut their budget," said Mr. DeLay, who once owned a Houston pest control company. "I've been fighting OSHA's silliness for years."
The fight over OSHA's ergonomic program shows how the new political alignment in Washington has transformed the Government's approach to one of the most significant workplace issues in recent years, altered the public debate on ergonomics and raised questions about whether OSHA should be an advisory or an enforcement agency.
Since last November's election, OSHA has narrowed its ergonomic program. Its 26-page draft ergonomic protection standard -- supplemented by more than 500 pages of explanation, recommendations and economic assessment -- was sent last month to employer groups, unions and ergonomics professionals. The draft shows how sharp a turn OSHA has taken since last summer.
The draft standard would still apply to workers who repeat the same motion, lift heavy objects or perform other stressful tasks. But the proposal would now apply to 21 million workers in higher-risk jobs rather than the nation's entire work force of 96 million.
Under the new draft, small companies with fewer than 10 employees would be given more time to meet the standard. Any company with an existing ergonomic program deemed effective would be exempt from many OSHA reporting requirements.
To fine-tune the proposal, OSHA has held a series of closed-door meetings in the last month with companies, unions and lobbyists. Among the unresolved questions: Does repeating the same motion or working in an awkward posture become a significant risk factor after two, three or four hours?
Still, the fate of OSHA's ergonomic effort appears in doubt. "We have to take ergonomics one step at a time in this political environment," said Joseph A. Dear, the Assistant Secretary of Labor who heads OSHA. "Anything could happen."
The uncertainty is deeply troubling to the nation's major labor unions. "My real fear is that the standards proposal will get killed," said Peg Seminario, director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s department of occupational safety and health. "But the growth in ergonomic injuries and illnesses shows that the Government has to intervene."
In 1987, 10 repetitive motion ailments were reported for every 10,000 full-time workers. By 1993, there were 38 cases for every 10,000 workers. Some of that increase, no doubt, results from increased awareness of the problem. But more than 40 million people -- more than 40 percent of the work force -- now work at computer keyboards.
"As we move further toward an information economy, this problem is only going to get worse," said Neal Taslitz, executive director of the National Repetitive Strain Injury Foundation, a nonprofit organization.
However, Congressional conservatives and the business lobbies not only want to see OSHA scuttle its ergonomic program but they would also prefer that OSHA be reworked as a smaller agency.
An OSHA standard needs no nod from Congress. But President Clinton wants to run for re-election in 1996, and the Administration has little stomach for a regulatory action that faces fierce opposition from the business community.
To organize that opposition, the National Association of Manufacturers formed the Coalition on Ergonomics, which says it has 250 corporate members and trade groups, like the American Trucking Association. The coalition's position is that it is not opposed to an ergonomic standard, it says, but it has no alternative to the OSHA draft.
Osha asserts that its standard would save business $9.6 billion a year, after compliance costs, because less time would be lost to injuries and compensation claims. The coalition disputes the agency's contention, but does not have its own cost estimate. It would like to see more studies on the science and economics of the issue.
Indeed, the science behind ergonomics does not supply neat cause-and-effect answers. Just as heart disease can have many causes -- smoking, diet, exercise, drug use, inherited weaknesses -- so can the onset of repetitive motion ailments and other musculoskeletal injuries.
The causes are not necessarily job-related. Suggested risk factors include stress at home, exercise routines, pregnancy and vitamin deficiencies. The recommended measures to prevent repetitive strain injuries are pretty straightforward: take rest breaks, move around, don't repeat the same motion for hours on end.
YET because people and jobs vary so much, it becomes a thorny judgment call for OSHA to declare how many hours or minutes workers should engage in high-risk tasks between breaks. Medical experts acknowledge that drawing that line is neither easy nor clear-cut.
"But can something be done to ease the problem and reduce the risk -- yes, absolutely," said Dr. David Rempel, a professor of occupational medicine at the University of California at San Francisco, who is also an ergonomics consultant to corporations. "Controlling those risk factors is what the OSHA standard tries to address."
Many companies have started ergonomics programs on their own. In 1991, Richard Parker, an ergonomics specialist, joined the Intel Corporation as part of the big microchip maker's effort to combat an emerging problem with ergonomic injuries. Since then the company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has studied and set guidelines for repetitive motion work in both its chip-making plants and offices.
By the end of last year, Intel had trained 18,000 of its 33,000 workers worldwide in ergonomics. In its three-hour courses, employees are offered ways to reduce the risk of working on personal computers -- adjusting the height of chairs and video monitors, for example, and taking breaks of several minutes every hour.
The benefits are evident. Last year, the number of lost or restricted work days attributed to repetitive motion injuries was reduced by 30 percent from the year before.
In Freeport, Me., L. L. Bean Inc. had much the same experience. In the mid-1980's, the mail-order retailer started to notice repetitive strain injuries among its shoe makers, box packers and computer users in its "800" number marketing center. To prevent further injuries, L. L. Bean has given ergonomic training to many of its 4,000 workers, tailored work stations to employees and redesigned jobs to make them less taxing on hands and backs. In the last four years, the company has reduced its number of lost-time claims from musculoskeletal disorders by 50 percent.
"All across America, companies are grappling with the ergonomics problem," said Ted Rooney, the head of employee health management at L. L. Bean. "There's no easy answer, but there are things you can do that are effective."
Opponents of OSHA's ergonomic initiative point to successful efforts like the ones at Intel and L. L. Bean as proof that voluntary programs are the most sensible, cost-effective way to implement ergonomics.
BUT OSHA replies that the fact that repetitive strain injuries continue to rise suggests that voluntarism alone is not enough. And proponents of the OSHA standard say that the experience in industries where workers are most at risk from repetitive motion injuries shows that enforcement is necessary. Meatpacking and poultry processing are high-risk industries, and companies like IBP Inc. and Perdue Farms Inc. have sharply reduced their repetitive strain injuries only after they were cited by Federal and state OSHA's for operating unsafe plants.
"OSHA was the only reason our industries did anything on ergonomics," said Deborah Berkowitz, director of safety and health for the United Food and Commercial Workers, which has a million members.
Meanwhile, the injuries continue to mount for people like Caroline Pierce, who works at a turkey processing plant. At House of Raeford Farms Inc. in Raeford, N.C., Ms. Pierce's $6-an-hour job is to reach into slits cut in killed turkeys and pull out their guts with a sharp, twisting motion. House of Raeford was cited last November by the state OSHA, which enforces Federal regulations in North Carolina, for operating an unsafe plant.
Ms. Pierce's severe symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome, a common form of repetitive strain injury, became evident last October. Her hands, she says, began to lock up painfully and moving her fingers was difficult. Last month, after several medical examinations, she had an operation on her right hand.
Ms. Pierce says she now needs two hands to turn her car's ignition key. "The doctor told me there is no guarantee I will ever recover," she said. But if she does, she plans to return to the turkey plant.
 
 
 
How Both Sides Massage the Numbers

HOW big a problem do repetitive motion injuries pose for American workers?
The answer varies considerably, depending on what labor statistics are used. Both sides in the ergonomics debate tend to use statistics selectively to bolster their arguments.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics has a category called "workplace illnesses," or ailments caused by exposure over time to particular occupational health hazards. Out of 482,000 illnesses in 1993 (the most recent year for which such figures are available), 302,000 were repetitive motion disorders, also known as repetitive strain injuries. That means more than 60 percent are R.S.I. cases. OSHA has sometimes used this 60 percent figure.
But when "injuries" -- resulting from instantaneous events and numbering almost 6.3 million in 1993 -- are combined with "workplace illnesses," repetitive motion disorders represent roughly 4 percent of the total. Those who insist that the extent of the R.S.I. problem has been greatly exaggerated -- in part by journalists, who are one of the affected groups -- use the 4 percent figure.
Still, the 302,000 repetitive motion disorders represent one of the largest categories of occupational ailments. And the number of cases is increasing at an extraordinary rate, up nearly fourfold since 1987.
The problem has fueled the demand for ergonomic products. So much so that for Microsoft, the big computer software company, a surprise hit has been a hardware product -- an ergonomic keyboard -- introduced last September.
Microsoft has been unable to keep up with demand for its $99 sculptured keyboard, intended to be more user friendly than a conventional flat keyboard. Though the company avoids suggesting that its product prevents repetitive strain injuries, it has already sold 500,000 of these keyboards.
"Regardless of what Congress thinks or OSHA does, there is phenomenal consumer demand for ergonomic products," said Beth Featherstone, the marketing manager for keyboards at Microsoft.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "When Work Hurts" shows people reporting a work-related illness caused by a repeated trauma from 1972 to 1993. "The Worst Jobs" shows industries with the highest rates of employee illness due to repeated trauma in 1993. (Source: Bureau of Labnor Statistics)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ERGONOMICS (94%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (91%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (75%); DISEASE REPORTING (73%); WELFARE FRAUD (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE TOM DELAY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



375 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2322 words

HEADLINE: Betting the Farm On the Company Stock

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
Somewhere not far below motherhood and apple pie on the roll call of all American virtues in employee stock ownership. It os, after all, a kind of marriage of democracy and capitalism. Give employees a stake in their company, the logic goes, and thay will work harder, thereby increasing productivity, driving the stock price up and making themselves, and outside shareholders, richer. And some evidence suggests that this thesis is broadly true.
 But there is a flip side. As more companies lavish more stock on their employees, some analysts worry the trend may lead to a dangerous financial overdependence. They are concerned that a significant number of corporations allow their employee no other investment option at all in their retirement plan. And even when companies exibit what seems like pure generosity, selling stock at a discount to employees or awarding them options to purchase securities at below-market prices, experts fear that some of the beneficiaries will be lulled into a false sense of security that can be dashed if the share price collapses. 
The growth in employee stock ownership has been sharp. The National Center for Employee Ownership in Oakland Calif., estimates that the proportion of the equity of American corporations in the hands of their own emplyees has almost tripled, to about 6 percent, or $350 billion today from just 2 percent a decade ago.
 According to a new study by two Rutgers University professors, thr equity that employees own in their own corporations through defined contribution plans nearly tripled in the 1980's. The study, and another one conducted recently by Hewitt Associates, also showed that in a significant number of cases, workers have their own company's stock as their only investment choice through their 401(k) plans or similar savings programs that allow workers to put in their own money for retirement.
As a result, many employees may have most or all of their assets tied up in their house, company stock and little else. And such concentration flies in the face of commonly held wisdom about the importance of investment diversification. The greatest risk, of course, is that if a company falters, employees would lose both their current livelihood and much of their savings. "There is no question that one of the basic principles is to not put all your eggs in one basket," said Lewis Altfest, who runs his own financial planning firm in Manhattan. "As good as a company is, it is just one company and it is subject to many forces."
You can hardly blame companies for pushing their own stock. As shareholders, employees provide a source of patient, long-term and interested capital. And given the weakness of the labor movement, they are in less of a position to tell management what to do. So, instead of being the boss's biggest adversary, labor can act as an important ally against hostile takeovers and even against the big institutional investors who act up if management displeases them.
Still, many financial experts find it perplexing that some employees keep their money in their companies' stock even when they have a choice of investments.
The Idaho Power Company is a good example. From 1974 to 1991, it offered its stock as the only investment option to its employees. By the end of that period, nearly all of the $78 million in assets in its 401(k) plan was invested in Idaho Power stock.
But starting in 1992, in part because the company received complaints from employees, the utility offered a raft of other investment options, and spent $200,000 a year to administer the broader plan and educate workers about its virtues.
Three years later, 90 percent of the plan's $110 million in assets are still invested in Idaho Power stock as employees have continued to funnel 55 percent of their contributions into it. And when the stock slumped 20 percent last year, many employees saw the setback merely as an opportunity to load up on more stock.
All of which has left Greg Johnsen, the plan's administrator, somewhat bemused. He said some employees have told him they would never advise a relative to be so heavily weighted in one stock, but they do not practice what they preach.
"It's an emotional issue for a lot of employees," Mr. Johnsen said. "Logic flies out the window."
Employees at some companies have spotted the danger. In 1991, workers at Pacific Gas and Electric were such fans of the company's stock they had more than 93 percent of their 401(k) dollars invested in it, even though they had other choices. When the stock began its descent last year from $35 to less than $25, many diversified their contributions, and as of last year, only 59 percent of the plan's assets were in company stock.
Even so, many employees remain heavily invested in Pacific Gas stock. Robert J. Fratini, a sales director who has worked for Pacific Gas for 20 years, said that close to 70 percent of his investments are in company stock. He said the concentration "is a concern of mine," but he has no plans to change.
"I'm a third generation P.G. & E. employee," he said. "I believe in the company, what it's doing, what it's trying to do. I'll see this thing through until I retire."
As an employee with a big stake in his company, Mr. Fratini appears to have lots of company. The Rutgers findings, compiled from 1991 Department of Labor data by Douglas L. Kruse and Joseph R. Blasi, professors of management and labor relations, showed that an average of 17 percent of assets in company-sponsored, defined-contribution plans were tied up in the company's stock. Their study also showed that a total of about 4,000 contribution plans had $105.5 billion invested in employer securities, up from $30 billion invested through 2,763 plans in 1980, a rise that easily kept pace with the 229 percent leap in the Dow Jones Industrial Average for the period. In many plans such as Idaho Power's, the data also show, the concentration of retirement-plan assets in employer stock is close to 100 percent. "This is far less diversification than anyone ever expected to find," said Mr. Blasi. "We have missed this huge elephant under our noses."
The Rutgers findings were supported by a recent survey by Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm based in Lincolnshire, Ill., which found that of the 1,034 companies it surveyed last year, 30 had their own stock as their only 401(k) investment option for employees.
Judith A. Lindquist, a Hewitt principal and managing consultant, said that such plans are better than nothing. But she said she is concerned that a company that offers stock as its only option "isn't balancing its goals of promoting employee ownership with employees' needs for developing long-term financial security."
The growth in the ties that bind employees to employers adds a new dimension to the prediction made two decades by Peter Drucker, the management guru, of the rise of "pension-fund socialism." He suggested that a growing portion of corporate America would be in the hands of pension funds, and described the trend as the "revolution that no one noticed."
And no one is suggesting that turning mere employees into partners-in-capitalism is all bad. Some studies show that companies with large blocks of stock in employees' hands perform better than companies without such ownership, particularly if those companies use various techniques to involve workers more in decisions.
One indicator is an index of stock performance of about 360 public companies where employees own at least 10 percent of the outstanding shares. Since 1991, the index has outperformed other popular indexes such as the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average by about 10 percent.
American Capital Strategies, an investment bank in Bethesda, Md., that compiles the index, does not suggest that companies perform well just because of their significant employee stakes. "But we do think that employee ownership does indeed improve performance compared to similar companies without employee ownership," said Malon Wilkus, president of the firm.
"And theoretically," he added, "it makes a lot of sense that people who are owners are more likely to work harder, smarter and more efficiently than people who aren't."
Many companies that place all their employees' retirement contributions in their own stock trumpet a similar logic. At Modine Manufacturing of Racine, Wis., which makes radiators for vehicles and other heat-transfer products, the company's stock is the only option for retirement programs for its 5,000 workers in the United States. About half the company's outstanding shares are owned by employees, former employees and their relatives.
"This strong link between the fortunes of our company and its managers and employees," the company's managers wrote in last year's annual report, "is a major factor behind Modine's success."
James C. Barton, a 25-year-old die-setter for Modine, said he approaches his job differently because of the $11,000 he has invested in Modine stock.
"It gives added incentive," he said. "I view my job as actually playing a role in the company rather than being someone who just shows up and punches in."
But others disagree that such a link between employee ownership and performance, if it exists, counts for much at large companies. Gregg A. Jarrell, a professor of finance and economics at the University of Rochester, said that employee-ownership programs benefit boards of directors more than employees.
While management reaps the benefit of a large friendly block of shareholders, workers are encouraged to build a poorly diversified portfolio of investments. "As a group, you've made them bear a lot of financial risk that they have not been compensated for," he said.
Even when companies are generous about the price they set on the stock, in part to offset the increased risk, Mr. Jarrell argues employees would be better off with more diversified options. "When you pay employees in an inefficient manner, at some level, it is a source of waste," he said.
And employees can't always help themselves when they are presented with strong inducements to buy the stock. One of the most spectacular cautionary tales was People Express, the high-flying airline that went under in 1986.
From the company's first days in 1981, employees were required to buy stock, at least 100 shares for most employees and a minimum of 200 shares for pilots. But workers bought much more, and controlled an average of 40 percent of the carrier's stock. Managers encouraged the trend, offering discounted stock every six months to workers that helped raise a total of $40 million for People Express.
When the stock was performing well, reaching a high of $52 per share after opening at $8, many employees owned between $200,000 and $300,000 worth of shares. It was an impressive nest egg that compensated for their low salaries, which never ranged higher than $48,000, even for top executives.
But those who held on to their stock were less fortunate. The airline was ultimately bought in 1986 by Texas Air Corporation (later Continental Airlines), which traded employees some new stock at a deep discount. But that too ultimately proved worthless when Continental filed for bankruptcy.
One former pilot and his family invested more than $70,000 in savings in People Express stock and lost almost all of it, digging themselves a hole they are still trying to climb out of nine years later. "We'll be finanically crippled for the rest of our lives," the employee, who asked not to be identified, said.
Donald C. Burr, the founder of the airline, defended the practice in a recent interview. "I believe very strongly in putting all your eggs in one basket and making that basket grow," he said. "I wanted people to be building People Express first and foremost. I didn't hire them to build a diversified portfolio."
He never misled employees, he said, because the rules of the game were clear from the start. "If they didn't like it, they could take their marbles somewhere else," he said.
But at many other companies, the rules are changing. Established companies, by the thousands, have restructured their traditional pension plans, which guaranteed workers a steady check after retirement, and replaced them with 401(k) plans and other programs that shift much of the responsibility for saving for retirement to employees. Between 1980 and 1986, according to an earlier study by Mr. Kruse of Rutgers, 9,700 companies switched from a defined benefit plan, or a traditional pension, to a defined contribution plan.
T he Kmart Corporation has become the latest company to hop on. On April 7, it announced that it would freeze its pension plan and shift to a profit-sharing program. Although the move will save Kmart money, it was hailed by the beleaguered company as a program that will "create specific economic incentives by emphasizing the connection between associates' efforts and Kmart's performance." Kmart stock is one of several investment choices.
If top executives are worried about their retirement dollars being so heavily concentrated, they at least have choices for diversifying assets tied up in company stocks that are not available to everyone. One method is a so-called equity swap, in which the executives each transfer a large block of stock to a brokerage firm. They give up all the advantages and risk of owning their respective stock. But in return, they each enjoy a partial stake in a more diversified portfolio of stocks, less some fees.
Workers rarely have such options. But they can, say Mr. Blasi and Mr. Kruse, insist that management either establishes an advisory committee of workers or survey employees on their preferred investment options.
Given their stake in many large companies, employees may have more influence than they think, Mr. Blasi said. "Employees," he said, "are the new dominant shareholder in American business."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "They Gave at the Office" shows publicly traded companies with the highest percentages of employee ownership for the most recent years available. (Source: Americal Capital Strategies)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Placing Their Futire With Their Company" shows emplyee (401)k retirement plans with the largest holdings of their own company's stock at the end of 1991. (Source: Rutgers University)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HEW (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (91%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (ESOP) EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); US 401K PLANS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



376 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By Hubert Herring

 BODY:

AUTOS
No Frugality Goes Unpunished
Only in corporate America. A company is prudent, tucks a few billion away for a rainy day and what does it get? Well, just look. Chrysler, recalling past woes, socked $7 billion away, but then Kirk Kerkorian, already Chrysler's biggest shareholder with 10 percent of its stock, said he and Lee Iacocca wanted to buy the whole thing -- in a huge $22.8 billion deal. Not only that, but he wants to reach in and use $5.5 billion of that company nest egg as part of the down payment. If he's just trying to get the share price up, he succeeded, as the stock rose $9.50 in a day. And if he really wants to own it, he's betting big that Chrysler won't need that money. If he's right, he may get more billions; how wonderful for him. But if he's wrong? Few people care if a multibillionaire loses a billion, but it's not just Mr. Kerkorian's gamble. If Chrysler dances on the precipice again, lots of innocent bystanders will pay.
 
AIRLINES
Continental Scraps Its Diet
Purists may see it as justice for using that mangled spelling, but the demise of Continental Lite last week was more the failure of an idea that some say was doomed from the start. Not that low-fare "airlines within airlines" can never work -- United's doing fine with its West Coast shuttle. But Continental's attempt to go lo-cal -- sorry, low-cal -- just never worked. Too many planes were added too quickly, resulting in lots of repairs -- and lots of canceled flights. So the airline, after losing $140 million on the experiment, scrapped it. The logos on 100 planes will be painted over, the first-class seats brought back -- and no more peanuts, or "peanuts fares." So, like the waistline of an erratic dieter, fares go up, fares go down. Someday maybe the airlines will get it right.
 
MARKETING
Happy Birthday Dear Blunder
Do you suppose that Ford Motor, 10 years after offering the Edsel to a resoundingly ungrateful public, celebrated that fiasco's anniversary? Not likely. But, hey, this is the 90's -- everything's upside down. So it was that Coke, far from being red-faced a decade after the "new Coke" follies, last week actually celebrated the anniversary of that too-sweet marketing blunder. Maybe, as Pepsi unsweetly suggested, Coke was just "trying to put the right spin" on the inevitable anniversary stories. But then again, as Coke's chairman, Roberto Goizueta, pointed out, the company's market value has grown from $9 billion to $75 billion in that decade. New Coke -- which Mr. Goizueta, by the way, decided to introduce -- has not exactly hurt.
 
NO TRUMP
If Eloise Could See It Now
On Oct. 1, 1907, when the Plaza opened in a blaze of ornate glory, could guests like the Vanderbilts ever have imagined the wild ride the hotel would be taken on by those who held the cash at the century's far end? Could they, in short, have imagined Donald Trump? Surely not. Mr. Trump, a tireless collector of "trophies," bought the Plaza in 1988 -- with borrowed money -- and then borrowed even more on it to help him buy Eastern Airlines, among other things. This house of loans tottered in 1992, with Citibank and other banks winding up the true owners -- and Mr. Trump a 51 percent owner in name only. The banks wanted out, and last week buyers were found -- a Saudi prince (the same one who put big money in Citicorp a few years back) and a Singapore company. The price: $325 million (Mr. Trump had paid $400 million). Eloise, at last report, was cowering in a closet.
 
CURRENCY
A Little Dollar That Wouldn't
You'd think that if everyone wanted to stop the dollar from falling in value against the yen, something could be done. But forces greater than mere governments are clearly at work here, for even though both Washington and Tokyo want to even things out, the dollar stays weak -- it now buys just 83 yen, compared with 100 in January. Just last week Japan -- its goods becoming awfully costly on world markets -- offered an emergency rescue plan, including a cut in its discount rate to an unheard-of 1 percent. It also moved to promote imports and cut regulations to whittle away at its trade deficit -- seen as the main culprit. To no avail. Exchange rates barely budged, and Tokyo stock prices fell sharply. Back to the drawing boards.
 
LEGALITIES
His Appeal Was Not Insane
At the 1993 sentencing hearing, the judge in the Crazy Eddie case said his goal from the start had been to redress the wrongs resulting from "the fraudulent activities of this defendant" -- Eddie Antar, that is. Irate as he may have been at one of the largest stock frauds ever, that's not the way a judge should talk. At least that's what a Federal appeals panel ruled last week as it overturned Mr. Antar's stock fraud and racketeering convictions, saying the judge had shown prejudice. Mr. Antar may now face a new trial on charges that he inflated the price of Crazy Eddie stock in the 80's.
 
THE ECONOMY
Inflation Made at the Fed
It really becomes a chicken-and-egg problem: Which came first -- Federal Reserve interest-rate increases or inflation? Yes, the Fed kept saying it was lifting rates to keep inflation nice and cool. But a funny thing turned up in the price figures last week. Yes, inflation was still in check -- producer prices were up just 0.1 percent, consumer prices just 0.2 percent. But where did a big part of that 0.2 percent come from? Directly from the Fed -- its rate increases have driven up automobile finance charges by a third in the past year. And -- surprise! -- that drove transportation costs up far faster than the overall rate.
 
RESTAURANTS
The Day the Smoke Cleared
"Excruciating and bothersome" -- one can easily imagine such words being uttered by a nonsmoker who felt an enjoyable meal had been ruined by someone else's cigarette smoke. But last week it was a smoker voicing that sentiment, as a strict New York law went into effect that bars smoking in most city restaurants. It's "part of the whole Big Brother thing," said another smoker. Restaurant owners are worried -- and, in some cases, poorer. One spent $40,000 for renovations to comply with the law. But is it all fair? Smokers, of course, can smoke on the sidewalk. Then again, nonsmokers could always eat on the sidewalk.
 
TAXES
No Discount on Boardwalk, Yet
Parker Brothers is having a high old time celebrating Monopoly's 60th anniversary. Here's the latest: After calculating that that pesky $75 "luxury tax" would now, in New Jersey, be $2,746.27, it proceeded to catch today's tax-cut fever. At a ceremony in New York tomorrow -- tax day, of course -- Parker is scrapping the luxury tax for the whole anniversary year. Now if the I.R.S. would just let you pass "Go" a few extra times . . .

GRAPHIC: Photo: TEMPLES -- Soft Rock? Not a Chance: The Hard Rock Cafe planned for Myrtle Beach, S.C., disdains understatement, featuring a 70-foot pyramid, sphinx-like statues, waterfalls and stone columns with hieroglyphics. (Courtesy PRNewsFoto.)
 
Graphs showing yen compared to the dollar from Jan. to April. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (59%); F (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (75%); 

CITY: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (75%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AIRLINES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (87%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); AIR FARES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



377 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Fixing the Falling Greenback

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
"YET another postwar low." Even casual followers of finance know this phrase refers to the dollar's continuing fall against the yen. But last Monday's new low was startling even in these days. For a few hours, the dollar hit 80.15 yen -- it was 99.58 in December -- with the one-day fall at one point exceeding 4 percent. The dizzy drop led to sniping among the superpowers. Here are the opinions of Wayne D. Angell, the chief economist at Bear, Stearns and a former Federal Reserve governor. SYLVIA NASAR 
 Q. Why has the dollar been so weak?
A. The dollar can only weaken against gold, other currencies and commodities when the Fed creates more dollar reserves than the world wishes to hold. The Fed does that if it guesses too low about where the Fed funds rate should be. Then, it is forced to buy T-bills, creating more dollar reserves.
Q. So you see the dollar's weakness as a sign the Fed has been too easy?
A. The strong yen is due 60 percent to overly restrictive monetary policy in Japan and 40 percent to overly accommodative policy in the United States.
It's really kind of sad hearing Treasury Secretary Rubin say that a strong dollar is in the national interest and see him be so unsuccessful.
Q. You don't think that the weak dollar causes inflation, but rather that it is an indication of too much monetary ease. Does a weak dollar pose any danger in and of itself?
A. The danger of continued dollar weakness is that it's a beggar-thy-neighbor policy. It means all major industrial plants get located in the United States as the rate of return on capital in the United States goes up and the rate of return on capital in Europe and Japan goes down.
Q. Has the dollar hit bottom?
A. We don't know that for sure. It did look like something close to a blowout when the dollar got down to only 80 yen in the hours before trading began Monday morning in Tokyo. But it's still a question whether there can be much firming without any action by the Bank of Japan or the Federal Reserve.
Q. Do you expect the Fed to raise rates if the dollar continues to slip?
A. The Fed doesn't want to lose its independence in monetary policy by saying that it is acting primarily on the exchange rate. But the exchange rate is a lot more important to the Fed than they want it to appear.
Q. So you're saying that the Fed should push up rates even though it has raised rates seven times in the past 14 months and even though inflation seems low and the economy is growing more slowly?
A. I think the Fed should raise interest rates after they make a commitment to gradually reduce inflation in the U.S. I'm talking about a recommitment on the part of the Fed to get inflation down so low that it won't make a difference. If holders of savings believe that the central bank is truly committed to lowering inflation, they don't need as much of an interest rate inducement to make them lend their money.
By and large, from 1988 to 1991, the public utterances of individual members of the Fed and statements by the chairman emphasized that commitment. As a result, we ended up two years later with an inflation rate of 2.3 percent, down from 5.5 percent. And the price of gold fell to $330 and yields on two-year Treasuries went down to 3.73 percent.
In other words, the results of this pledge were better inflation performance and lower interest rates. The dollar stayed amazingly strong given that the economy was slowing and rates were falling. But, after the last election, the question asked by capital managers around the world is whether today's Fed has shifted its priorities away from reducing the rate of inflation. Now, the world's perception is that all the Fed cares about is jobs, jobs, jobs.
Here's what I'd recommend Chairman Greenspan and the committee do. We know that inflation is going to be rising through 1995. The Fed needs to make a commitment that 1996's inflation rate will not be higher than 1995's, and that 1997's inflation rate will be lower than 1995's. This will help us get back on course to gradual disinflation. I have never been one to argue for dramatic reduction in inflation rates. I've always argued for gradualism.
Q. Do inflation fears undermine the dollar? Is inflation really picking up?
A. In terms of the dollar, the worst of all worlds is for the Federal Reserve to appear to be complacent as the inflation rate keeps moving up. It has already moved up from a 2.3 percent annual rate last year to a 2.9 percent rate in in the past 12 months.
We're not in the worst situation. So far the acceleration of inflation has not seemed to bother anyone in the U.S. But it has clearly bottomed out. Core inflation -- the Consumer Price Index minus food and energy -- came in at another 0.3 percent in March, which means that the rate over the past three months has been running at 4.1 percent.
The problem is that inflation clearly is going to be higher in 1995. So what happens in 1996?
Q. What about Treasury policy?
A. When President Reagan was elected, he placed a high priority on getting inflation down. That resulted in a stronger dollar. Treasury Under Secretary Beryl Sprinkle criticized the Fed for being too easy, saying the money supply was growing too fast and the dollar was too weak. The way to make the dollar appreciate is to do exactly what Ronald Reagan did. We had tight monetary policy and bigger deficits, and we ended up with the same result as Japan is now seeing because that caused the demand for our currency to increase.
Larry Summers at the Treasury should be calling Paul Volcker on the phone and saying: "Paul, we know the dollar was in weak condition when you became Fed chairman in August 1979. How did you fix this dollar weakness so quickly?" If Bob Rubin says he can't do it, it is a pretty lame explanation for a Secretary of the Treasury to say he wants a strong dollar but doesn't know what to do.
Q. What should United States policy be toward Japan?
A. Japan is on the borderline of zero-growth depression and a bank crisis. Japan's tight money means that the yield on capital in Japan is close to zero, and the private sector can't invest if there's no return.
It's not likely that Japan's discount rate move from 1.75 to 1.0 percent will be followed by a big enough drop in interest rates to do the job. If all the interest rates, including the postal savings rate, moved down a full 100 basis points, it would be a very good first step. What's really needed is a follow-up move, which ideally should be a coordinated move between the U.S. and Japan. I'm not sure, but they might need to take the discount rate on down to zero. If the U.S. and Japan both altered rates in opposite directions at the same time, it would make currency markets believe that the two countries are serious.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wayne D. Angell, chief economist at Bear, Stearns. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; ANGELL, WAYNE D MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



378 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Nissan 200SX SE-R;
Flying Comfortably on the Cheap

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif.

 BODY:
UNTIL Nissan phased out the model last year, its little Sentra SE-R held undisputed claim to the title of poor man's Porsche: it was a bit Spartan inside and zilch to look at, but oh could it fly. Now the SE-R is back, this time as the serious driver's version of the 200SX, Nissan's new line of budget-priced sports coupes. And while it is no longer an ugly duckling, it can still fly.
Nissan, like the other Japanese car companies, is caught between the rising yen and formidable competition from a newly invigorated Detroit. Unlike most of them, though, Nissan has responded with a slew of new models for the American market that are affordable, yet cut no important corners. 
 A plain-vanilla 200SX is $12,000, with a peppy four-cylinder, 115-horsepower engine, five-speed manual transmission, dual air bags and a usable back seat. But the real fun costs $16,000 and change.
That figure buys the top-of-the-line SE-R, with four-wheel disk brakes, optional anti-lock braking, air-conditioning, power sunroof, alloy wheels, oversize 15-inch tires, limited-slip differential, cruise control, alarm and even a remote entry gadget. As important, it comes with nifty components borrowed from its affluent cousins. The SE-R has the very modern 2-liter, 140-horsepower engine built for the Infiniti G20, along with the road-hugging rear suspension introduced this year on the Nissan Maxima.
So much for lists. How does it perform? Acceleration from zero to 60 takes 8 seconds, no faster than the Neon Coupe. But driving is rarely about going fast in a straight line: if it were, everyone on a budget would buy a Camaro Z28. I put the SE-R through its paces in the mountains east of Santa Barbara and came away a believer.
The suspension, steering, clutch and brakes are confidence-builders; you can throw this substantial 2,500-pound car around as if it were a Miata. The halogen headlights are as good as they come, producing excellent vision without blinding approaching traffic. But it is the engine and gearbox that really separate the SE-R from run-of-the-road coupes. Push the throttle hard and in no time the engine is revving above 6,000 revolutions per minute. Indeed, the SE-R seems happiest between 4,000 and 5,000 r.p.m., growling contentedly at speeds where most engines howl in protest. Shifting is a breeze, with a short, authoritative snap -- and no mush -- between the gears.
Nissan says the SE-R gets 31 miles to the gallon on the highway and 24 in the city in the E.P.A.'s fuel economy cycle. I averaged 22 m.p.g. -- not bad, considering how frequently I pushed the pedal to the metal.
All this comes at little sacrifice in creature comforts. The SE-R's front bucket seats are a joy, with plenty of lumbar and pelvic support and nicely textured charcoal-gray cloth that grips in the turns. The seats slide forward at a touch, providing relatively easy access to the rear. Two adults could survive back there, if not thrive, for hours.
The interior looks and feels regulation-Japanese, with ample headroom and unobstructed views. Although surfaces are plastic, it is expensive, carefully fitted plastic. Interior noise is moderate, approaching Lexus-like calm at highway cruising speed in fifth gear. Trunk space is better than average for a subcompact, and a trapdoor into the passenger compartment makes it possible to haul really bulky stuff with the split rear seats folded down.
The SE-R's analog instruments are easy to read, and all controls are where you'd expect them. The sound system includes a very sensitive AM-FM tuner and four sweet speakers. Nissan dealers are happy to add a six-disk changer in the trunk for a not-so-slight $695 charge (plus installation).
Complaints? The slightly pregnant body design, driven by a wish to carve room for four in car that is 2 feet, 7 inches narrower than a Chevy Camaro, is never going to be celebrated by the Museum of Modern Art. And performance has been just a tad tamed -- the suspension softened, the maximum engine speed limited -- to broaden the SE-R's appeal beyond 20-something males who can't afford Bavarian rocket ships.
But it is hard to fault Nissan for trying to be all things to all people, especially since the SE-R comes so close to the mark. Indeed, the SE-R's Clark Kent manners should be most welcome during the 80 percent of drive time when the last thing anybody needs is Supercar.
 
INSIDE TRACK: A wolf cub in sheep's clothing that may bring out the animal in you.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nissan has replaced the Nissan Sentra SE-R, a plain-looking subcompact that delighted serious drivers, with a new and somewhat flashier coupe, the 200SX SE-R. (Nissan North America Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CORP NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORTS CARS (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (75%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (66%); JAPANESE YEN (55%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



379 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Let's Look at the Politics of Gambling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire's ordinarily laudable libertarian impulses seem to fail him whenever he discusses gambling ("Gambling Fever," April 10). It is true that some gamblers are problem gamblers, just as some drinkers become alcoholics. We do not reflexively ban the liquor business, nor do we argue that the state should have nothing to do with it. 
 State-sponsored gambling is often called "taxation of the willing," and it is thus surprising that Mr. Safire opposes it. He seems to object to the inherent moral evil of gambling and the danger to consumers who engage in it. He thus supports an activity he often decries in other contexts, the state acting as the moral arbiter of private conduct.
That Mr. Safire finds gambling objectionable is not a sufficient reason to argue that the state should have nothing to do with it. His argument would be more credible if it were based on the superiority of private over state enterprise. Instead, it is based on the weaker premise that an activity engaged in by millions is, to his way of thinking, "wrong."
 
EVAN OSBORNE
Assistant Professor of Economics
Wright State University
Dayton, Ohio, April 10, 1995

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GAMING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOTTERIES (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM L SAFIRE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



380 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 13; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: When Politicians Cut Taxes: The Winners and the Losers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Even some Republicans are urging Governor Whitman to delay the final stage of her 30 percent cut in the state income tax, and rightly so. In the face of Federal budget cuts, any income tax reduction can only put more pressure on services -- particularly higher education. 
 When students from low- and middle-income families can afford to go to college, the public reaps dividends in the form of higher skill rates. The Federal Government has reported that 70 percent the new jobs generated by the economy will require some education beyond high school. This means that public colleges and other educational resources must remain affordable or the drift to a low-wage service economy will continue.
 
BILL WEIGHTMAN
Hardyston

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); INCOME TAX (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%); JOB CREATION (52%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); WEIGHTMAN, BILL BILL WEIGHTMAN HARDYSTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



381 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 11; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Bhutto Came, She Saw, She Conquered

BYLINE: By Larry Pressler; Larry Pressler, Republican of South Dakota, is chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mrs. Benazir Bhutto, came to the United States with one major goal -- to convince Washington to reward her Government with a multibillion-dollar aid package even though Pakistan possesses nuclear explosives. She was successful.
President Clinton announced that he would seek Congressional approval of aid. That would be a huge mistake. It would be a willful violation of Federal law. Beyond that, it would seriously undermine his own own nuclear nonproliferation goals. 
 The law requires that Pakistan pay a price for its decision to go nuclear. If Mr. Clinton does not ask Ms. Bhutto to pay that price, then he will encourage rogue states everywhere to pursue nuclear ambitions.
The law is clear. There can be no flexibility as long as Pakistan has nuclear explosives. Ten years ago, Congress enacted the Pressler Amendment, which I wrote, to cut off aid and military sales to Pakistan if the President could not certify that Pakistan did not possess a nuclear bomb. Since 1990, no President has been able to certify that Pakistan was not in possession of nuclear explosives. Thus, all direct aid and military sales have been ended.
Pakistan is now said to have enough nuclear material to assemble at least six bombs. It is also building a nuclear reactor that would give it access to vast amounts of plutonium to construct even more nuclear bombs -- a fact the Prime Minister at first denied but then quickly confirmed. Besides, Pakistani officials have been advising the terrorist state of Iran how to start its own nuclear program.
 Faced with these facts, Mr. Clinton should demand that Pakistan abandon its nuclear agenda.
Amazingly, he was prepared to unconditionally reward Pakistan with military aid, including the F-16 aircraft that were originally sought by Pakistan but whose delivery is blocked by the Pressler Amendment. The F-16, which can carry and drop a nuclear bomb, would of course greatly enhance Pakistan's nuclear capability.
President Clinton has now offered to compensate Pakistan for the undelivered planes. Why? Sizable aid in any form would be seen as a reward for Pakistan's nuclear ambitions. It would deliver a blow to regional peace, generate renewed hostilities and a nuclear arms race between Pakistan and India and increase the likelihood of nuclear weapons falling into terrorist hands.
We cannot condone, through taxpayer assistance, Pakistan's becoming a nuclear power. Nor should we allow Pakistan's extradition of Ramzi Yousef, the alleged mastermind of the World Trade Center bombing, to justify relaxing our nuclear nonproliferation policy.
Pakistan remains a safe haven for terrorists, who have taken the lives of more than 1,000 people there since the beginning of last year, including those of two American diplomats.
 Pakistan repeatedly has not been straightforward with U.S. officials about the scope of its nuclear program, including its recent nuclear reactor project.
By proposing to resume U.S. aid, President Clinton would reward this deception and signal acceptance of Pakistan's place at the nuclear table. This action would also undermine the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty -- a measure the President is seeking to renew. Pakistan is not a signatory and does not allow United Nations inspections.
Just as ominously, the Clinton aid package would tell other countries that there are no long-term penalties for going nuclear.
Pakistan needs to succeed economically. Reaffirmation of the Pressler Amendment would be a good start.
The people of Pakistan should be permitted to live with the hope of better opportunity, not the fear of nuclear annihilation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ARMS RACE (76%); EXTRADITION (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



382 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 11; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: The Fairest Cure We Have

BYLINE: By James P. Turner; James P. Turner retired last year after 25 years as the career Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division.

DATELINE: ACCOKEEK, Md.

 BODY:
Back to the future is the right approach to the affirmative-action debate. Strip away 30 years of political baggage, and you will uncover a measured way to undo patterns of discrimination that is still the fairest remedy we have.
In retrospect, the idea that grew into affirmative action seems tame. In 1966, the Justice Department looked behind the innocent facade of a craft union in New Orleans and discovered a closed-circuit operation that guaranteed that minorities would never work in the trade. Every member of the local was white, and a vicious circle of rules guaranteed it would stay that way. To get a job through the union's exclusive hiring hall, one had to be a member, related to a member or referred by a member; to become a member, one had to have experience working in the trade. This lily-white union could perpetuate itself indefinitely. 
 To comply with Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and break away from the restrictive rules, a Federal court approved the first- ever race-conscious remedy: the union must seek out and invite minorities to use the services of its hiring hall, and for a time it must make job referrals on an equal basis, one-for-one, minority and white. The requirements would cease when the evidence showed that the excluded minorities had been afforded a fair chance to obtain work experience and qualify for union membership.
In every sense of the word, the court's orders were "affirmative." Rather than appointing a receiver or bankrupting the local with fines, the court required the union to reform itself. Equitable balance required that a period of negative exclusion should be redressed by a period of affirmative inclusion. This kind of relief, carefully structured and temporary, became standard under Title VII as a way to restore balance to an employment system that, intentionally or otherwise, had used race as a qualification for jobs.
In 1970, another affirmative way to break down patterns of exclusion was designed by the Nixon Labor Department. A Federal court approved Philadelphia's approach, which required contractors seeking city business to pledge that their employees' racial makeup would approximate that of the local work force. The court held that this was a reasonable way to address the city's legitimate interest in breaking down discriminatory policies.
In 1979, Congress began to participate in affirmative action. In a special economic stimulus package, 10 percent of the Public Works Act appropriation was set aside for minority contractors. The approach was approved by the Supreme Court, which stressed its limited nature and Congress's desire to address discrimination previously found in federally funded programs.
Into the 1980's, the Supreme Court encouraged reasonable reform efforts, approving one employer's training program to help minorities qualify for advancement and another's adoption of goals to overcome a seriously lopsided work force.
Outside the employment field, affirmative remedies were approved in other areas infected with discrimination, from desegregation of schools to college admissions to voting rights. When an election system was rigged to eliminate or minimize minority participation, the Voting Rights Act required jurisdictions to replace the offending features with fair designs that enhanced minority voters' opportunities.
There is nothing radical, immoral or un-American in these simple, therapeutic concepts of affirmative action. However, these perfectly sound principles have been so abused by fringe politicians and pressure groups that the original purposes have been obscured and the general public has become befuddled.
During the "Reagan revolution," conservative Republicans railed that affirmative action was nothing but a quota system in mild disguise, fanning the flames of racial division with the scary cliche of "reverse discrimination." Fortunately, the Federal courts would not be stampeded, and repeatedly rejected invitations to throw out effective remedies because they were inconsistent with someone's pet philosophy.
The liberals have muddied the debate with their unfortunate penchant for affirmative "stretching" that plays into the hands of the conservative quota-bashers. For example, in 1983, when liberal Democrats gained control of the City Council in Richmond, Va., the new majority promptly earmarked 30 percent of contracting dollars for minority contractors (including Eskimos and Aleuts) -- not as a carefully targeted remedy for past discrimination but as a virtual entitlement. Again, the courts came forward, this time to warn that such racial classifications were unconstitutional.
More recently, the Clinton Administration, which seems determined to placate the left, has taken the position that a school district may discharge a teacher because her race is inconsistent with the demands of proper diversity. This stretching is under review by the Federal courts.
Perhaps the worst of all worlds is the shameful bipartisan political spectacle that has produced some of the oddest so-called electoral districts in American history.
After the 1990 census, Republican operatives came up with a poisoned apple -- free software programs -- to help minorities design districts they could control, not because it was right but because concentrating minorities in a few districts would turn adjacent districts Republican. For practical political reasons, the Democrats jumped into this campaign to maximize minority districts (no matter how bizarre their shapes). The Administration is now trying to defend them all, including some plainly indefensible racial gerrymanders.
Over the last 15 years, a war of ideological slogans has passed for public debate. The pendulum has swung wildly from those who would use public concern over class-based remedies as a wedge to roll back civil rights progress to those who consider affirmative action a convenient way to achieve politically correct bean counting. To all of them I say, "Let's give it a rest."
Civil rights are basic principles of our democracy that should not be used as political grist. Other than faithful enforcement, there should be no Republican or Democratic position on civil rights.
We don't need another evaluation of affirmative action nearly as much as we need a little peace and quiet on the subject. With that, and court guidance, we can trust the law-enforcement professionals at the Justice Department and elsewhere to get on with the business of enforcing the civil rights laws through the careful, balanced, non-excessive application of the principles of affirmative action.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LABOR FORCE (85%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



383 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Tax Talk;
Render Unto Caesar, Pay the Piper Or Just Get That Check in the Mail

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
TAXES are as funny as a toothache, as profound as a pothole. But as long as there have been tax collectors, the subject has proved fodder for humorists, philosophers and jurists. 
 The following quotations were culled from a collection compiled by Jeffery L. Yablon, a partner in the Washington law firm of Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge. The collection was published in the Nov. 14 issue of "Tax Notes," a journal for tax specialists.
 DAVID E. ROSENBAUM
 
Nothing in this world is certain but death and taxes.
-- Benjamin Franklin
 
A government which robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.
-- George Bernard Shaw
 
Taxes are what we pay for a civilized society.
-- Oliver Wendell Holmes
 
Count the day won when,
 turning on its axis,
This earth imposes no
 additional taxes.
-- Franklin P. Adams,
 journalist
 
Don't tax you, don't tax me;
Tax the fellow behind the tree.
-- Russell B. Long, United States Senator
 
A democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government. It can only exist until a majority of voters discover that they can vote themselves largess out of the public treasury.
-- Alexander Tytler,
 historian
 
If Patrick Henry thought that taxation without representation was bad, he should see how bad it is with representation.
-- The Old Farmer's Almanac
 
Why are the people starving? Because the rulers eat up the money in taxes.
-- Lao-Tzu, Chinese philosopher
 
There is just one thing I can promise you about the outer space program: Your tax dollar will go farther.
-- Wernher von Braun

Abracadabra, thus we learn
The more you create, the
 less you earn.
The less you earn, the
 more you're given,
The less you lead, the
 more you're driven,
The more destroyed, the
 more they feed,
The more you pay, the
 more they need,
The more you earn, the less
 you keep,
And now I lay me down to sleep.
I pray the Lord my soul to take,
If the tax-collector hasn't got it before
 I wake.
-- Ogden Nash

Governments are necessarily continuing concerns. They have to keep going in good times and in bad. They therefore need a wide margin of safety. If taxes and debt are made all the people can bear when times are good, there will be certain disaster when times are bad.
-- Calvin Coolidge
 
A good prince will tax as lightly as possible those commodities which are used by the poorest members of society; e.g., grain, bread, beer, wine, clothing, and all other staples without which human life could not exist.
-- Erasmus
 
It is fairer to tax people on what they extract from the economy, as roughly measured by their consumption, than to tax them on what they produce for the economy, as roughly measured by their income.
-- Thomas Hobbes
 
Where there is an income tax, the just man will pay more and the unjust less on the same income.
-- Plato

People want just taxes more than they want lower taxes. They want to know that every man is paying his proportionate share according to his wealth.
-- Will Rogers
 
A woman's income chargeable to income tax shall [for any year] during which she is a married woman living with her husband be deemed for income tax purposes to be his income and not to be her income.
-- United Kingdom Income and
 Corporation Taxes Act, 1970,
 section 37
 
[Suggested simplified tax form] How much money did you make last year? Mail it in.
-- Stanton Delaplane, journalist

You can have a lord, you can have a king, but the man to fear is the tax collector.
-- anonymous citizen of Lagash,
 a city state that existed about
 6,000 years ago in what is now Iraq
 
The income tax has made more liars out of the American people than golf has. Even when you make a tax form out on the level, you don't know when it's through if you are a crook or a martyr.
-- Will Rogers
Few of us ever test our powers of deduction, except when filling out an income tax form.
-- Lawrence J. Peter, author of "The Peter Principle"
 
 As I sit in my poverty-stricken home, looking at the place where the piano used to be before I had to sell it to pay my income tax, I find myself in a thoughtful mood.
-- P.G. Wodehouse
 
 What is the difference between a taxidermist and a tax collector? The taxidermist takes only your skin.
-- Mark Twain
 
 In the time of Emperor Vespasian, the government provided urinals in the streets of Rome and charged a fee for their use. The emperor, seeking to reduce his budget deficit, decided to raise the fee. His son, a finicky fellow, asked the emperor whether the additional receipts should be considered a tax increase or a reduction of government expenditure for the provision of the facilities. To this, the emperor made his famous reply (in Latin, the only language he spoke): "Non Olet!" The literal translation is, "It doesn't smell." But the meaning is, "It's all money, and it doesn't matter which side of the ledger you put it on."
-- Herbert Stein, economist
 
An unlimited power to tax involves, necessarily, the power to destroy.
-- Daniel Webster
 
The power to tax is not the power to destroy while this court sits.
-- Oliver Wendell Holmes
 
O that there might in England be
A duty on Hypocrisy,
A tax on humbug, an excise
On solemn plausibilities.
-- Henry Luttrell, poet
 
Anybody has a right to evade taxes if he can get away with it. No citizen has a moral obligation to assist in maintaining the government. If Congress insists on making stupid mistakes and passing foolish tax laws, millionaires should not be condemned if they take advantage of them.
-- J. Pierpont Morgan
 
Why shouldn't the American people take half my money from me? I took all of it from them.
-- Edward A. Filene,
 department store owner
 
It's a game. We [tax lawyers] teach the rich how to play it so they can stay rich -- and the I.R.S. keeps changing the rules so we can keep getting rich teaching them.
-- John Grisham, author

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diane Asman faces her return at a Cherry Hill, N.J., tax office. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: PILLSBURY WINTHROP SHAW PITTMAN LLP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); STARVATION (75%); TAX CONSULTING (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (72%); HISTORY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); BEER & ALE (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; YABLON, JEFFERY L MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



384 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Take This Job;
Up From Welfare: It's Harder and Harder

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THIS is America, so these things can still happen: A woman has a child in high school and spends the next decade on welfare. Then she gets training for a job as a cement mason and finds work molding the gutters and curbs of new highways. Today she earns $50,000 and buzzes off to work in a black 1993 Saab turbo 9000. The woman is Gail McDougle, 37, whose son is now 19. From the public housing projects on the Chicago's South Side, Ms. McDougle has moved up to an apartment in Hyde Park and is saving to buy a house with a couple of apartments so she can make more money.
"You just have to want to go somewhere," Ms. McDougle explained. In the projects, she said, "I would look around and a whole day would pass. 'Oh Man! I haven't been anywhere.' Just sit around, wait for that check. Check comes, get on the State Street bus. Go downtown. Buy some shoes. Come back, enjoy your shoes. The routine never changes. I was tired of not going somewhere." 
 Though they disagree about how much government should do to help individuals make the transition, President Clinton, the Republicans in Congress and many states are set on nudging, or pushing, many of the millions of adults on welfare into work and, eventually, self-sufficient lives. Under most scrutiny are the five million heads of households, mainly women, who receive cash benefits through Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the Government's principal welfare program. But smaller programs are being cut, too, like the general assistance that New York and 21 other states provide other adults, most of them single men.
Few of the people who may be prodded or dropped by the welfare system are likely to end up buying Saabs and apartment houses, however. Apart from the social conditions that mired many of them in poverty, powerful trends in the broader economy are making it harder and harder to make Ms. McDougle's great American leap into the middle class. For all but the most skilled or best educated new workers, wages and hours are the stingiest since President Franklin D. Roosevelt created the welfare system.
"It is hopelessly unrealistic," said Katherine Newman, an anthropologist at Columbia University, "to expect that these welfare recipients will be absorbed into the low-wage labor market in the places where they live and would try to find work." In a study that Professor Newman is conducting in Harlem, she said, 14 people chase every new, $4.25-an-hour fast food restaurant job. After looking for a year, 73 percent of them still don't have a job. "The market is already glutted with people who are better qualified than most welfare recipients," she said.
Ms. McDougle became a mason only with the help of an advocacy group, Chicago Women in Trades, which steered her into a union apprenticeship program. She was admitted, said Shelley Davis, an officer of Chicago Women in Trades, in part because she was female and black -- the beneficiary of Government-mandated affirmative action.
Now that avenue, too, could be closing. Unions represent just 11 percent of all private industry workers today, half the level of two decades ago, so they are training fewer workers. On top of that, the Republican Congress is training its guns on affirmative action.
In some ways, the labor market looks responsive to job seekers. Just as it absorbed the baby boomers and the flood tide of women who joined the labor force, it has shown a capacity to create jobs outside the cores of the big cities and in some rural areas. If a welfare recipient could go wherever the work is, "she could find a job by sunset." said Gary Burtless, a labor economist at the Brookings Institution.
But many welfare mothers are tied to their turf by family and friends who help sustain them and by a lack of dependable transportation for commuting. Many are too disabled, or need Medicaid for their families, or cannot find affordable child care. Some are too unschooled in the culture of work to land or hold a job.
The version of welfare reform that has passed the House of Representatives, and is now before the Senate, would require states to push recipients into jobs more quickly and cut off benefits altogether when they have received cash benefits for five years. It provides no extra money for job training or child care, which President Clinton has called crucial gaps.
 
Cleaning and Serving
 For those who can work, the larger issue is the quality of jobs they are most likely have to take. These are the jobs taking orders in restaurants, giving meals and baths to the old and the infirm, cleaning hotel rooms and offices, washing cars and pumping gas, running sewing machines, picking fruits and vegetables and patrolling as security guards.
Some of these jobs pay little more than the Federal minimum wage of $4.25 an hour; few pay more than $8. The Labor Department says the lowest paid 10 percent of full time workers earn an average of $225 a week. At those wages, people merely shift to the ranks of the working poor -- still dependent on public assistance such as food stamps and subsidized housing.
And those are the people who get full-time jobs. Most low-wage jobs are temporary or part time. About 17 percent of the labor force works less than 30 hours a week. "It's very hard to find full time permanent employment," said LaDonna A. Pavetti, an economist at the Urban Institute. "Nobody hires that way anymore."
Worse, the wages keep sinking. Because wages have fallen behind the rate of inflation, the average worker could buy 20 percent more with his earnings in 1972, the best year ever, than he can today. That's the average worker, someone with a high school diploma or some college. High school dropouts have seen big declines in real wages.
For women, the primary alternative to welfare is not a job but marriage. Of the women who get off welfare, 35 percent got married, the Department of Health and Human Services says, and 21 percent become ineligible because of their earnings. But marriage is a less and less promising refuge. The wages of the men these women are most likely to marry -- those with only high school diplomas or less -- have fallen much more than women's, although men still make more than women on average.
For all that, many welfare recipients do try to make it by working. About a quarter of the women on A.F.D.C. have worked within the last two years, the Department of Health and Human Services says. But two-thirds who do go to work return to the rolls within three years.
Working 30 hours a week in the jobs they typically get brings in about $900 a month, without any health benefits. They pay about $200 for child care and $100 for transportation, leaving $600 for everything else.
Instead, at least in the current system, they could collect an average of $373 a month from A.F.D.C, up to $304 in food stamps for a family of three, free health care through Medicaid, and, often, assistance for housing, heat, and transportation. They do not need high school diplomas to divine which is the better deal.
For many young welfare mothers, those who have never worked, salvation starts with training in the discipline and culture of work. With proliferation of jobs serving consumers -- "jobs where you have to talk to somebody," Ms. Pavetti said -- people need training in the soft skills of teamwork and getting along.
 
The Cost of Learning
 These days, it's hard to sell lawmakers on the costly training needed for jobs that pay the $11 or $12 an hour on which a parent can support a child or two without Government aid. The Government's record in job training is mixed in any case.
In today's political climate, said Judith Gueron, head of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, which analyzes welfare experiments, "the challenge is not to lead people into better jobs." It's to make the jobs they can get more tolerable with help with child care or health care. As Ms. Gueron put it, "you can transform a low-wage job into a slightly better than low-wage job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: They're Working Hard for the Money -- DAY JOBS, usually as a trucker's helper, pay Donnell Williams, center, $6.00 an hour. He waits for assignments at a Manhattan temporary agency. IN A PIZZA SHOP in Manhattan, Sandra Moncado works part-time for $4.20 an hour. WHAT DOES $6.00 an hour buy? John Carrano, who works full time at the Dunkin' Donuts in Patchogue, L.I., said he was turned down for a Sears credit card. Mr. Carrano lives with his mother. (Photographs by EDWARD KEATING/The New York Times)(pg. 4); The economy can absorb more workers, but real wages for the less-educated are at their lowest in a quarter century. At a car wash on 47th Street in Manhattan, Kamafet Salio earns $5.75 an hour. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graph: "The Low End Goes Lower" shows real-wages for the least-skilled workers for 1992. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAABB (STO) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAAB AB (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WOMEN; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



385 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
As Earth Day Turns 25, Life Gets Complicated

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER 

 BODY:
WHETHER they pulled tires out of the Bronx River in White Plains, set up recycling booths in Chicago or marched in San Francisco, the millions of Americans who celebrated the first Earth Day in 1970 were bound by two principles: the environment was a mess, and the Government needed to do something about it.
This week, America marks Earth Day's 25th anniversary. But that cracking sound heard across the country is more than the breaking up of old notions about environmental protection. It also is a shattering of the dominance that the large national conservation groups have exerted over America's environmental priorities and laws. 
 In effect, Earth Day 25 ends an era of cohesiveness in identifying environmental problems and marshaling extraordinary popular support. The next era of environmentalism is starting with a cacophony of competing claims about the earth's condition, vicious rivalries within the environmental movement, surprising weakness in Government leadership and an influential counterforce that is pushing Congress to dismantle many of the protections enacted over the last quarter century.
By some measures, the new era is off to a promising start. America's lakes and rivers are cleaner, the air is clearer, and tens of millions of acres have been added to the nation's protected wilderness areas. Last year, in an act suffused with symbolism, the Government removed the bald eagle from the list of threatened and endangered species. And as Gregg Easterbrook notes in his new book "A Moment on the Earth" (Viking 1995), it isn't much of a reach to argue that environmentalism is the most enduring and successful liberal movement of the 20th century.
 
What Hasn't Happened
 Pollution has not ended, though, and more than that, it is more complicated, vexing and persistent than anybody knew. Species are disappearing. The great virgin forests of the Pacific Northwest continue to fall. And while scientists disagree about their relative importance, global warming, ozone depletion and acid rain remain onerous.
The laws that compelled wood and paper companies to reduce damage to forests and forced chemical companies to remove many unsafe pesticides have been around for two decades, more than enough time to identify some unexpected weaknesses.
Property owners have complained about the enforcement of environmental laws. While elderly couples are hammered by Federal wetlands regulators in Maine, Maryland and Florida, a huge copper smelter in Michigan's Upper Peninsula and big refineries in Texas obtain waivers from government authorities to pollute almost at will.
Columbus, Ohio, documented how a simple plan to pave a parking lot behind its maintenance garage turned into a more than $2 million toxic waste cleanup after trace levels of antifreeze and other contaminants were found in the soil.
Such examples became the fuel for a political freight train to rewrite environmental laws. The most baffling aspect of the Congressional debate has been the virtual silence of the Clinton Administration, which took power at least in part on the popularity of the message in Vice President Al Gore's book, "Earth in the Balance," that rescuing the environment should be "the central organizing principle for civilization."
All the Administration's talk of bold steps to raise energy taxes, to reduce damage from mining and grazing on Federal lands and to give environmental improvement equal status with economic gains is only a distant memory now. The White House was slow to put its team into place, and opponents on Capitol Hill sensed its lack of resolve. And the Administration's languor has brought at best only muted protest from the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club and other major groups.
The leadership vacuum among conservationists in Washington is being filled quickly by local and regional groups, many of them professionally staffed and bursting with ideas at odds with the national groups'. In the Pacific Northwest, the Native Forest Council is calling for an end to timber cutting in the national forests. The Gulf Coast Tenants Organization in Louisiana is fighting pollution problems affecting minority groups in urban centers of the South.
The movement of authority and ideas from mainstream environmental groups to regional and local organizations has made for a much richer debate.
For instance, conservative free market organizations have joined with liberal policy centers to identify and challenge the tax breaks and subsidies for agriculture, energy, transportation, and construction. These groups assert that any chance of progress is hopelessly gridlocked because of contradictory incentives. While policies for environmental protection are mostly punitive, the Government rolls out billions of dollars to encourage development and industrial activity that add to the deficit and wreak havoc on natural resources.
Other groups advocate incentives for environmentally useful ideas, a notion tried in the 1970's and largely ended in the 1980's. Why not pay farmers to grow kenaf, a quick-growing fiber crop, as the raw material for paper? Why not direct more research money to non-chemical farming instead of subsidizing agribusiness?
Such ideas could result not only in more effective environmental protection at lower costs, but also address public concerns like the safety of food, the clear-cutting of forests, and the stability of rural economies.
The new debate already has fostered a critical change in legislative approaches. The better-safe-than-sorry principle of environmental lawmaking appears to be over. House Republicans and numerous Democratic allies approved legislation last month designed to subject new environmental statutes and regulations to much more rigorous cost and scientific accounting.
Editorialists criticized the House "risk assessment" bill as an example of reactionary opportunism that will protect neither the earth nor the public. And even some Fortune 500 business executives said the measure would gum up Government further with a new and expensive bureaucracy of regulation reviewers.
Some think it is worth trying, however. Paul Portney, vice president of Resources for the Future in Washington, said that not to try a new approach -- perhaps a better version of the House risk assessment bill -- is a recipe for further public disenchantment.
At the very least, he said in an interview, legislative mistakes like the inordinately expensive 1980 Superfund law should be much harder to make. Enacted on the theory that abandoned chemical waste dumps could expose millions of people to toxins, the Superfund law set up stringent procedures for removing poisons from such sites. The law's major benefit is that it has essentially ended the practice by industrial companies of haphazardly dumping their most dangerous wastes.
 
Hauling and Burning
 But no one anticipated that the primary material to be treated at Superfund sites was soil, much of it only slightly tainted, and very little of it actually coming in contact with people. Nor did lawmakers take into account the usefulness or the cost of hauling, burning or treating tens of millions of tons of contaminated soil.
Among Superfund's many unanticipated downsides was discouraging redevelopment of old industrial sites, an outcome that harmed urban working people by removing job opportunities.
Another principle that is crumbling on the eve of Earth Day 25 is that more regulations make better regulation. If that were true, then the 1976 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, a thicket of regulations designed to manage garbage and toxic wastes, would be an unqualified success. It's not.
While the act led to the closings of thousands of local dumps, some of them leaking, the law also encouraged the construction of new incinerators, immense landfills and hazardous-waste treatment centers, most of them in the backyards of the rural and poor.
As the country sorts out which environmental regulations make sense, long-ignored issues are gaining prominence.
In the current Atlantic Monthly, Bill McKibben makes an eloquent case that population growth and land use issues are among the biggest and most difficult environmental problems now. Mr. McKibben describes how the Northeast is enjoying the best environmental conditions in 100 years as great expanses of farmland have been reforested. The renewal owes a lot to time and nature, and to the web of environmental laws that Congress is now reassessing.
But protecting the landscape from the assaults of urban sprawl will demand something more than, and different from, the standard regulatory prohibitions.
Of all the legacies of Earth Day 1970, the most valuable was the ethic that America has a responsibility to protect its natural heritage. Now, having succeeded in changing the world, the environmental movement itself is endangered. If development and land use issues attain the prominence of the anti-toxics, anti-nuclear and wilderness preservation campaigns of the last 25 years, then addressing them will mean throwing away some old orthodoxies. The movement that changed the nation's environmental ethic a generation ago is reshaping itself, and the most important aspect of that effort is a new openness to what works and what doesn't in environmental protection.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Logging is no longer unchecked, but it still scars public lands -- here, the Olympic National Forest. (Dan Grzyminski/Impact Visuals); The bald eagle, a movement beneficiary. (Shia photo/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); WEST USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); TRENDS (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ACID RAIN (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (76%); WILDERNESS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); LAKES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); WETLANDS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); PESTICIDES (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); BIOLOGY (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (64%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); OZONE DEPLETION (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); TRAINS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



386 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Hollywood 1, Japanese 0

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
YOICHI MORISHITA, the president of the giant Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, finally ended a months-long silence last weekend and paid a chilly 35-minute visit to the Beverly Hills home of Lew Wasserman, the chairman of MCA Inc. With a minimum of small talk, Mr. Morishita confirmed to the legendary Hollywood chieftain that he had sold control of MCA to the Seagram Co. without consulting MCA's management.
With that, Mr. Morishita climbed back into his car, closed the door on this bitter chapter in both companies' histories, and jetted back to Japan nursing a big financial loss and memories of a failed strategy.
 
A Bitter End
 Matsushita's flight from a business it had entered with great optimism just five years before marked a humiliating conclusion to the single largest investment a Japanese company has made in the United States; Matsushita had acquired MCA, an entertainment conglomerate that includes Universal Pictures, for $6.6 billion and has now sold 80 percent for $5.7 billion, suffering a big loss in terms of yen because the dollar is far weaker now than it was five years ago. 
 But perhaps the most telling aspect of the story was this: Each side effectively admitted that despite the high hopes, huge sums and time committed to the relationship, they had learned almost nothing about each other, and were parting as strangers.
"They never really understood our business," said Sidney J. Sheinberg, MCA's president. "But the problems you had with this particular relationship were really about the changes they went through over the last several years."
When Matsushita made the investment it was flush with billions of dollars because Japan's economy was booming. It also believed (like its main rival, the Sony Corporation) that as a maker of hardware like audio and video tape players, it could overpower less wealthy competitors by seizing control of the "software" that ran on the machines.
It was a disaster. Executives in Hollywood, it turned out, believed that the future lay in linking the software not with the boxes that played movies and music (which were freely available), but with electronic systems for distributing the software, like cable systems and television networks. When MCA's executives sought to acquire such a system (they tried to take part in a joint bid for CBS), Matsushita failed to agree that the move was necessary -- and, in any event, Japan's economy had fallen into a steep recession that had left Matsushita weak.
The proposal was rejected, and the stage was set for last week's angry divorce. It was not because of the deep cultural differences that some had anticipated, but because of an unbridgeable chasm in business logic.
 
Getting It Wrong
 "We thought they would bring the capital we needed to expand," said Mr. Sheinberg. "It turned out to have the opposite effect. We ended up with money in our pockets personally but none of the strategic advantages. They ended up with none of the strategic benefits and less money in their pockets."
In a way, he might have been talking about the increasingly awkward relationship between Japan and the United States. Matsushita's purchase of MCA had marked the crest of the greatest flood tide of capital to wash across the globe in history. From 1985 through 1990, a highly confident Japan invested more than $650 billion abroad. Nearly half of that went to the United States.
On this side of the Pacific, the investments were often met with a fear that a resurgent Japan was undermining American economic independence. In Japan, theywere seen as symbols of that country's strength and the superiority of its economic strategy. Cooler heads saw signs of the growing interdependence of two countries.
What we now know is that in a great many instances the Japanese investors paid way too much, often got fleeced, and rarely understood what they were in for. (It remains to be seen whether Seagram, a spirits company, does any better with its investment in the mercurial entertainment business.)
As a result of the number of bad investments, many Japanese companies are now taking flight. According to Kenneth Leventhal & Co., a real estate concern that tracks Japanese investment, Japanese companies sold off nearly $5 billion of American real estate in 1994 and may sell as much as $10 billion this year, much of it at steep losses.
 
Lessons
 And while the investments entered the country with much hand-wringing and fear, many have left almost no visible marks on the American economic landscape, aside from making a few clever people rich.
"Will there be some lasting effect from all this?" asked Robert W. Dziubla, a lawyer here who has worked extensively with Japanese companies. "You bet, but it will be in Japan, not here."
However, a number of Japan experts warn that the investment debacle should not be seen as a long-term withdrawal of Japan from the international markets, or from the United States. "In retrospect it seems we blew the fears in this particular case way out of proportion," said Mark Mason, a professor at Yale University who studies Japanese overseas investments. "But there is legitimate cause for concern still, because Japanese multinationals do behave differently when they invest overseas.
"This is a short-term black eye for both the companies and the government," he added. "They both participated in a bad strategic decision. But in the long term I think they were right. Japanese industry has to move overseas. You can look at problems like these as tuition payments. I think they've learned quite a bit from all of this. At some point, we'll see how they apply those lessons."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese investment in American companies soared, starting in the 1980's. Under Matsushita, Universal made "Mr. Baseball," a box-office dud starring Tom Selleck. (Universal Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (94%); SON (LSE) (65%); SNE (NYSE) (65%); 6758 (TSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (72%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (65%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCA INC; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO; SEAGRAM CO PANASONIC CORP (94%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (72%); SONY CORP (65%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCA INC; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO; SEAGRAM CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); BASEBALL (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES LEWIS ROBERT 'LEW' WASSERMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



387 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Critical Of Tokyo Plan To Rein In Yen

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: SANUR, Indonesia, Sunday, April 16

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin told his Japanese counterpart this morning that the emergency financial package Japan issued last week was so vague that it had failed to reverse the fall of the dollar against the yen. And the Secretary pressed for far more action before the currency gyrations threaten the economic stability of the world's biggest trading region.
The meeting with Japan's Finance Minister, Masayoshi Takemura, came at the opening of a meeting of finance ministers from around the Pacific on the resort island of Bali. A senior Administration official who took part in the session said that Mr. Takemura, a politician with no financial background prior to assuming his post last year, conceded that the package announced by Tokyo had "not been received favorably by the market and by market analysts." 
 The official said Mr. Takemura had promised more specific action to stimulate Japan's economy and deregulate its market in the next month or so. But American officials clearly fear that could be too little, too late, and that the dollar could fall even further in the interim.
Emerging from the meeting, Mr. Rubin also said that the Japanese had inquired whether the United States was interested in bolstering the dollar by issuing Treasury bonds denominated in Japanese yen rather than in dollars.
"He asked it rather than suggested it," said Mr. Rubin, who is on his first extended international trip as Treasury Secretary. "And I told him we had no intention of doing so."
The idea of issuing American securities in yen has been floated in recent days, by both Americans and Japanese, as a quick fix to the exchange rate troubles that are resounding around the world. The theory is that Japanese investors, as well as other investors around the world, would feel more secure buying a yen-denominated bond because it would insulate them from any further fall in the dollar. If the dollar did fall after the bonds were issued, the cost would be born by the United States Government, which would have to pay back the bondholders in more valuable Japanese yen.
But such a bond issue would be highly unusual and, in the eyes of many American officials, a bit demeaning to their own currency. It might also relieve the pressure on Japan to take some of the fundamental steps needed to bring the currencies back in line, including opening its markets, just when American officials are urging the rest of Asia to intensify that pressure.
There was no sign that the meeting had achieved agreement on how to correct the startling 16 percent fall of the dollar against the yen in recent months.
A brief statement issued by the two countries afterward said that Mr. Rubin and Mr. Takemura, who came to office in a political deal that brought the current, shaky Japanese coalition Government to power, agreed that the currency shift "by no means reflects the economic fundamentals." They promised to "consult closely and to cooperate as appropriate" in coming weeks, the code words used among finance ministers to try to convince the markets that the two Governments will act in concert to reverse any further fall of the dollar. But in recent weeks, that cooperation appears to have been spotty, and it has usually not worked.
Though Mr. Rubin described today's meeting as "in tone, cordial," it clearly came at a time of sharp tensions with Tokyo over what American officials term Japan's intransigence in opening its automobile and auto parts markets to far more foreign goods. Autos were supposed to be an important part of a broader agreement President Clinton negotiated in 1993, but last week the Administration publicly warned Japan that it would move to impose tariffs on billions of dollars in Japanese products if major progress was not made in the next three weeks.
The dollar's troubles and the yen's surge have loomed over this meeting. Many countries throughout the Pacific borrowed yen heavily from Japan throughout the 1980's and the first half of the 90's to pay for public works projects, and now find themselves paying far more on those loans then they had bargained for.
Moreover, the yen's surge seems bound to accelerate Japan's race into Southeast Asia, as Japanese companies -- struggling to regain their competitiveness as the costs of their products soar -- rush to move more factories out of Japan. For example, here in Indonesia, a boom in Japanese investments in assembly lines is under way, totaling $1.56 billion last year. It is a welcome development for many in this country, one of the 10 "big emerging markets" that the Clinton Administration has focused on to gain a foothold for American business.
The yen's rise also complicates the region's delicate power relationships, especially as many nations in Asia prepare to celebrate their liberation from Japanese occupation 50 years ago this summer. While countries in the region have always courted Japanese investors, they have usually kept their foreign exchange reserves in dollars, creating a strong link with the American economy. Now countries like Taiwan are rethinking the wisdom of that strategy, having watched their reserves dwindle in buying power compared with the yen.
The disagreement over what to do about the dollar mirrors a larger argument over which of the world's two largest economic powers bears more responsibility for the fall of the dollar. The Japanese have long argued that the fundamental problem lies in Washington's addiction to deficit spending and its unwillingness to act decisively to cut expenditures.
American officials counter that the real problem is an overly strong yen, not a weak dollar, and that it is only made worse by what they see as Japan's dithering on broad economic reforms that have been discussed for years. They contend that it is up to the Japanese Government to find ways both to stimulate Japan's economy and bring in a burst of imports. That, in turn, should cut Japan's $64 billion trade surplus and presumably bring the yen and the dollar back into each other's orbit.
But Mr. Rubin's aides grimaced when they saw the much-heralded new economic plan, because it included no numbers and few specific commitments. The markets were also unimpressed -- the dollar did not recover in Tokyo trading on Friday -- and an unusually large number of Japanese economists have denounced the effort as insufficient.
A large number of ideas put forth in the plan, like strengthening Japan's Fair Trade Commission to bolster competition, are chestnuts that have been around for years and that are discussed with renewed vigor whenever there is a re-eruption of American-Japanese trade conflicts.
The element of Japan's package that most pleased the United States was a reduction of its discount rate to 1 percent, from 1.75 percent, although American officials expressed skepticism about whether any changes in rates already so low could move the currency markets. The biggest element of the plan was an offer to speed up Japan's deregulation effort, as well as to spend more on public works and to allow the resumption of deficit spending in hopes that it will lift the Japanese economy out of its doldrums.
But the powerful Japanese Government bureaucracy managed to take any targets or numerical goals out of the plan, and the result was a patchwork that American officials regarded as little more than a restatement of unmet past commitments.
For Mr. Rubin, the trip to Indonesia, to be followed by four days in India, is an effort both to acquaint himself with America's challenges in Asia and to deliver some uncomfortable messages.
The challenge is to position the United States to help finance and build some of the world's largest public works projects. In a speech in Los Angeles on his way here, the Treasury Secretary estimated that Asia will need about $1 trillion in dams and power stations, new telephone networks and highways during the next five years.
But he is also facing growing skepticism about the speed with which the United States is pressing Asian countries to open their markets, liberalize their investment laws and let markets rule. Mexico's financial disaster has made many other fast-growing economies leery, and Mr. Rubin has said he wants to disseminate the lessons of those mistakes widely, so they are not repeated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENT BONDS PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEREGULATION (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E; TAKEMURA, MASAYOSHI (MIN) ROBERT E RUBIN (81%); MASAYOSHI TAKEMURA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



388 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-11
 
COOL RESPONSE TO JAPANESE
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin dismissed Japan's emergency financial package as too vague to reverse the fall of the dollar against the yen. The Secretary pressed for more action before the currency gyrations threaten the economic stability of the world's biggest trading region. 1
 
IRAQ DEFIES UNITED NATIONS
Iraq responded to a United Nations resolution allowing limited sales of Iraqi oil by denouncing the proposal and organizing anti-American demonstrations in Baghdad. 1 

RWANDA PARK UNDER PRESSURE
In a national park in Rwanda, cattle owned by Tutsi returning from exile threaten a fragile ecosystem and are pushing many wild animals into neighboring Tanzania. 3
 
CUBA MOBILIZES TO FIGHT LAW
Cuban officials, alarmed over a bill in Congress that would allow Cuban-Americans to claim seized property, plan a series of mass meetings to drum up opposition. 4
 
SARAJEVO HAGGADAH EMERGES
The Sarajevo Haggadah, one of the world's most beautiful illustrated Jewish manuscripts, emerged from the chaos of the Bosnian war for Passover. 10
 
BRITAIN CUTS GOVERNMENT
Britain has undertaken one of the world's most comprehensive efforts to slash Government costs and improve services. 10
 
National 12-20
 
CLINTON LISTS PRIORITIES
The President said he was intent on winning passage of a welfare overhaul that promotes work, tax cuts linked to education and anti-crime measures that preserve the ban on assault weapons.1
 
THE RISE OF THE MEGACHURCH
A growing number of ministers are trying new strategies to entice a vast potential flock whom they call "the unchurched" to huge steel and glass structures in suburbia. 1
 
ACADEME AND ADMISSIONS
College administrators say that although any small lies are usually uncovered during the admissions process, determined applicants who fabricate a lustrous past sometimes slip through. 19
 
DISCIPLINE FOR CANCER CENTER
The Harvard-affiliated Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, where two patients received large overdoses of an anti-cancer drug, has been put on probation by the nation's leading hospital-quality certifier. 12
 
KINGS AND QUEENS AND PRAYERS
One of the best chess teams in Illinois is from one of the worst public schools in Chicago. 12
 
THE FUEL OF THE FUTURE
Buoyed by renewed political interest and technological promise, efforts are being stepped up to make hydrogen a major source of energy in the United States. 15
 
The Attorney General opposes easing crack-sale punishment. 18
 
Metropolitan 21-26
 
RETIREMENT FOR IMMIGRANTS
Created in the early 1970's to bolster the incomes of retirees who did not receive enough in Social Security, the Supplemental Security Income program is increasingly being sought out by elderly immigrants new to this country. 1
 
OPENING FOR A BROOKLYN POET
Brooklyn's poet laureate position became vacant March 11. Norman Rosten, poet, playwright, novelist, memoirist, died at age 81. There is the matter of his title -- poet laureate of Brooklyn, as well as the question of a possible successor. It is a title at once grand and modest, comic and appropriate and perfect. It is also a title not many in Brooklyn are aware exists. 1
 
FIGHTING OVER WELFARE
Welfare has moved to the center of the state budget battle, and for all the attention being paid to it, one would think it was the chief cause of the state's fiscal problems. It is not, nor is it even close: education, health care and transportation programs all dwarf welfare spending in the state budget. But in the realm of political theater, welfare makes for compelling drama. 21
 
NEW YORK CITY AS STAR
A dozen or so new television shows or pilots being are filmed this spring on city streets, each seeking to portray New Yorkers the way the world, via television, has come to know them -- as the glamorous, the gritty and the quirky. 21
 
Obituaries 27
 
Ludmilla B. Turkevich, an expert in Russian language and literature.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RWANDA (92%); JAPAN (92%); CUBA (87%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%); 

COMPANY: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (64%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RWANDA (92%); JAPAN (92%); CUBA (87%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (90%); CANCER HOSPITALS (85%); CANCER (85%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (84%); POETRY (83%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); MAMMALS (75%); NATIONAL PARKS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TAX LAW (71%); GUN CONTROL (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (68%); DRAMA LITERATURE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (65%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (65%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (65%); AGING (63%); CANCER DRUGS (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (55%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



389 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Britain Is Streamlining Its Bureaucracy, Partly by Privatizing Some Work

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 15

 BODY:
At a time when voters nearly everywhere are demanding more efficiency from government, Britain has undertaken one of the world's most comprehensive efforts to slash costs and improve services.
The Conservative Government transformed the nation's economy in the 1980's under Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher by throwing slow-moving, inefficient state-owned industries into the free-market fray. Now her successor, John Major, is applying the same market-oriented ideology to the Government bureaucracy by making it compete with the private sector and meet explicit performance goals. 
 Britain's program, which has been put into place gradually during the last several years, is being studied by Vice President Al Gore's staff as part of his program to reduce Government waste and red tape. The British program's breadth, the Government's strong commitment to it and early signs of success make it a fertile source of ideas for similar programs in the United States and elsewhere, experts say.
"There's a lot to be learned from their experience, and thematically the two efforts are very much linked around the notion of service to citizens," said Elaine C. Kamarck, the head of the program in Mr. Gore's office.
Like many countries, Britain has put a heavy emphasis on reducing costs by bringing in outside concerns for routine tasks. This effort was estimated to have saved 20 percent of costs for the agencies involved. It also serves as a warning to civil servants that they could lose their jobs unless they find ways to cut costs and improve quality.
But Britain's program goes farther by clarifying what is expected of agencies, requiring them to set and meet performance targets, and by giving them more flexibility.
In one of the sharpest changes, the Prison Service has hired outside contractors to run four of its 128 prisons, saving up to 25 percent a prisoner in operating costs. It is about to award contracts to private companies to design, build and manage two more prisons. It has also contracted privately for the job of transporting prisoners in some regions between jails and courts.
Civil service unions and the opposition Labor Party have attacked the program for creating hardships by eliminating or transferring to the private sector 27,000 of more than 500,000 civil service positions in the last three years. And they have criticized Mr. Major's administration for placing too much emphasis on what they consider dubious measurements of bottom-line savings and for diminishing direct Government accountability for public services.
Critics have also attacked the Government for spending too much in the drive to find more efficient ways of operating. The opposition Liberal Democrats calculated that the Government spent $1.36 billion last year hiring outside consultants. The level was 17 percent higher than the previous year, and few Government departments would or could identify any resulting savings.
"The Government record on management consultants is spend, spend, spend, in direct contrast to the cut, cut, cut they've imposed on the British people," said Malcolm Bruce, a Member of Parliament who conducted the Liberal Democrats' study.
Because the program is difficult to explain, the public has taken notice largely when something went wrong. But there is little question that the program has had an effect. The Passport Agency found that it could save $2 million a year by having outside companies print passports. The Inland Revenue Service, the tax agency, found that it could save up to $300 million during the next decade by contracting out the management of its data bases and computer systems. The Driver Vehicle and Licensing Agency met its goal of improving overall efficiency by 2.5 percent.
Smaller countries have also attacked Government waste and inefficiency. What sets Britain's program apart, experts said, is its progress in breaking a large bureaucracy down into smaller units, each with its own chief executive and its own contract with the Government that sets financial and performance targets.
"The U.K. has gone gone further in reinventing government than any country other than New Zealand," said David Osborne, who runs the Reinventing Government Network, a consulting concern based in St. Paul, Minn. "What they have in place in Britain is a very powerful framework."
The British efficiency effort has three major parts. The "citizen's charter" requires all agencies that deal directly with the public to publish service standards and quality goals and to announce each year how they have performed. The market testing program encourages agencies to buy goods and services from private companies when it will save money. And the "next steps" program has created more than 100 agencies out of the much larger Government departments, defined their jobs and required them to set measurable goals each year.
Although there are no immediate penalties for failure, the program increasingly ties the pay and promotion prospects of civil servants running the agencies to their success in meeting their targets. The Government is hiring more officials from the private sector to run the agencies, and putting them on fixed-term contracts that allow them to be dismissed if they do not get results. Some contracts provide for bonuses if they meet their goals.
The "next step" agencies operate under the umbrella of half a dozen major Government departments. In addition to the tax agency and the Royal Mint, the new agencies have functions as diverse as cartography, veterinary laboratory services, quality control for medicines and army base repair.
The Prison Service, for instance, technically remains part of the Home Office, the nation's biggest bureaucracy, but in practice has been reorganized under its own chief executive and its own board of directors and given more freedom to adopt new operating policies.
Last year, the Prison Service's goals were to reduce the number of escapes, to reduce overcrowding, to increase the number of prisoners with 24-hour access to bathrooms, to insure that prisoners spent more time in "purposeful" activity, to increase the proportion of prisoners able to leave their cells for at least 12 hours a day, to give a larger number of prisoners more than their minimum visiting rights, and to bring down per-prisoner costs. It met its targets in all but one area.
By the Government's accounting, the early stages of the program have yielded encouraging results in most agencies. In the 30 months that ended on Sept. 30, Government agencies had conducted 799 "market tests" to see whether using private contractors would save money.
The reviews covered nearly $3.2 billion of Government work, and resulted in more than $1.8 billion in contracts going to the private sector. The Government calculated the overall savings at nearly $650 million, or about 20 percent.
Of the 275 quality targets set by the 104 agencies taking part in the program last year, 214 were met, according to Government figures. Of 137 financial targets, 109 were met.
Critics argued that the statistics overstate the real savings, especially when job losses are taken into account. But the Government remains unswayed by opponents of its market-oriented approach.
"In the 1970's we said government should not be involved in making steel or cars or running the telephone system," Mr. Clarke said. "So it will be with the reform of the working of government. Ten years from now many people will be wondering what all the fuss was about."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Overhauling Britain's Bureaucracy" shows 1994 performance goals for 104 agencies and the goals achieved by three of them: the Driver/Vehicle Licensing Agency, He Passport Agency, and the Fire Service College. (Source: British Governemnt Next Steps Review 1994.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PRODUCTIVITY CIVIL SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRISONS (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); CONTRACT AWARDS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); THATCHER, MARGARET H AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



390 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Public Radio, a Lifeline In Alaska, Facing Cuts

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Alaska, April 15

 BODY:
Corey Flintoff's voice reaches the remote corners of the nation's largest and most sparsely populated state every weekday, delivering the world's news from his desk in the nation's capital. As a newscaster for National Public Radio, Mr. Flintoff is heard in many out-of-the-way places, but none so isolated as the Yupik Eskimo villages of southwest Alaska.
In these tiny communities, where children still learn their native language before English and families subsist on fish, game and berries gathered near their homes, public radio is a lifeline, not just to the nation's capital but to family and neighbors. 
 Personal messages like birth announcements and grocery lists are commonly heard on Alaska's far-flung public radio stations. So are the latest commercial fishing openings and the occasional tsunami warning. And weather, always the weather.
These small stations are more essential to their communities than the average university station in the lower 48 states, said Mr. Flintoff, who started his career in Alaska public radio.
"It plays a central role," he said. "That's the beauty of it."
But it is a lifeline that may be cut. Across Alaska more than two dozen public radio stations are bracing for budget reductions that threaten to end their broadcasts, which are especially cherished in the rural areas where the residents are few and mainly native Alaskans.
The conservative mood that swept the nation in November also took hold in this politically independent state, giving the Republican Party control of both houses of the Alaska Legislature for the first time since the 1960's. Promising to shrink a state budget viewed as out of control, the majority is taking its knife to every program deemed a frill. Public broadcasting is one of those.
Last week the State House of Representatives approved a spending plan that cut the Alaska Public Broadcasting Commission's $6 million budget in half. The leadership informed the broadcasting agency that it intended to end support for the state's four public television stations and drastically reduce financing for radio in communities that have a commercial radio station.
Senate budget writers have made similar reductions, taking less from radio but entirely eliminating the broadcasting commission, which distributes the money. The differences will be worked out in a conference committee.
Representative Vic Kohring, chairman of the House committee that oversaw the public broadcasting budget, said he was merely carrying out the majority's pledge to reduce state spending by $70 million next year. Alaska's budget is $2.5 billion this year and the state faces annual deficits of $500 million for the next several years because of a continuing long-term decline in oil and gas royalties paid to the state. A decline in prices and production dates from the 1980's.
"I personally enjoy public radio and TV," said Mr. Kohring, a freshman Republican from Wasilla. "It gets down to basic and raw economics. We don't have enough dollars to fund everything."
Mr. Kohring's list of essential services includes roads, schools and programs for the elderly, but he all but eliminated state money for the arts.
Alaska broadcasters and legislative Democrats view the cuts as copycat politics, a mean-spirited, local version of the Contract With America in Congress. They said a state with a $15 billion savings account -- the Alaska Permanent Fund -- and no state income or sales tax does not need to cripple its information delivery system. The fund, financed by gas and oil revenues, provides dividends of almost $1,000 a resident a year. It is considered politically untouchable.
"What's happening in Alaska is the Republicans are trying to copy what the Republicans are doing nationally, what Newt Gingrich is doing," said Senator Jim Duncan, Democrat of Juneau. "I think it's a step back into the Dark Ages."
Alaska natives see the reductions as an attack on a group with no voice in a Legislature now controlled by conservative, urban Alaskans.
"People are really scared out here," said Russell Nelson, who lives in the Bristol Bay community of Dillingham. "If they can take away the statewide news and weather forecast that people use on a day-to-day basis, what else can they take away?"
Legislators of both parties say that support for public broadcasting has been overwhelming, with thousands of telephone calls, letters and faxes pouring into their offices from across the state.
The communities where public radio is most valued are the ones where it is also the most fragile. In these kinds of towns the only place you can get to by road is the garbage dump and the daily newspaper from Anchorage may not arrive for a week. Small stations that are barely hanging on now would lose all Federal financing if they have fewer than five employees, and broadcasters said several stations were likely to become repeaters, just relaying the signal from a larger station.
In Sitka, a coastal town of 8,000, Raven Radio, as station KCAW-FM is known, brings weather forecasts, fishing reports and news to six towns and a large fishing fleet in the eastern Gulf of Alaska.
"We're the daily newspaper and the information highway for southeast Alaska," said the general manager, Barnaby Dow. The station broadcasts to the Tlingit Indian villages of Yakutat, more than 250 miles up the coast, and Kake, 100 miles southeast, and tiny fishing settlements in between.
"We're the only source of news about what's going on in Juneau, other parts of the state and Washington, D.C.," Mr. Dow said. "In a rural state like Alaska, that's not window dressing. That's essential to us debating and dealing with public policy."
Mr. Flintoff got his start as a country and western disk jockey at station KYUK in Bethel, the largest town in the Yukon-Kuskokwim delta region of southwest Alaska. KYUK broadcasts many programs in the Yupik language, from the day's news to stories by village elders.
"For young people in the villages who are increasingly subjected to this onslaught of outside TV and movies, they need something that will validate their own culture on the air," Mr. Flintoff said.
"It's pretty wonderful to be out in a remote place and turn on the radio and hear a native voice speaking Yupik. That voice is not doing some kind of traditional museum performance. It's relaying immediate information."


GRAPHIC: State financing for Alaska public broadcasting has fallen nearly $1.5 million dollars over the bast 10 years. Graphs track annual State financing during fiscal years 1986 through 1995 and show breakdown of all revenues in 1994. (Source: Alaska Public Broadcasting Commission)
Graph: "ADDING IT UP: Alaskan Public TV: Less State Money"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (96%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (58%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNITED STATES (96%); ALASKA, USA (96%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO PUBLIC BROADCASTING (91%); PUBLIC RADIO (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (60%); ROYALTIES (60%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (50%); 

PERSON: COREY FLINTOFF (60%); VIC KOHRING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



391 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Soviet-Style Rule in Uzbekistan Provides a Bearable Life 'if We Are Quiet'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: TASHKENT, Uzbekistan

 BODY:
Life in the countries of the former Soviet Union just keeps getting messier. There are civil wars and tentative stabs at democracy; there is economic mayhem and the political chaos that goes with it.
There are also many new freedoms. Not here, though. Here they rely on the old ways: simplicity, fear and repression. 
 Uzbekistan is a country locked deep in the Soviet past, where cars are constantly stopped and searched for no reason, and a cautious pedestrian's eyes are always focused on the ground. In March, 99.6 percent of the republic's 11 million voters turned out to extend President Islam A. Karimov's term to the year 2000. He was unopposed.
The only way to speak freely with someone here is to rendezvous on a park bench. Generals in the Interior Ministry -- the powerful police force that helps run the country -- are referred to, without irony, as commissars. It is a title that made Soviet citizens shudder for decades until it was discarded, along with the worst excesses of Communism.
The President's epigrammatic sayings are taught from kindergarten through medical school. There is even a little Mao-sized phrase book.
"We live in a police state that would have made the old Bolsheviks proud," said Shukrulla R. Mirsaidov, 56, a former Vice President and Prime Minister. He is among the last outspoken opposition figures who have not fled the country or been jailed, in part because he is under constant surveillance.
"Independence for us has been a cruel joke," he said in an interview in his apartment. "The people have been cheated. The state controls them all in the name of peace and stability -- and, of course, in the name of the state."
Stability has become a secular religion in Uzbekistan under Mr. Karimov, a former Soviet official and economist. He controls everything from the secret industrial production plans to the schedule for sweeping this sprawling capital's streets.
Mr. Karimov, the first leader of independent Uzbekistan, has stayed in power by locking up many of his opponents. Uzbeks and foreigners agree that his grip is absolute.
Gaudy posters with pictures and sayings like "Struggle for the future of the Motherland" appear on buildings and billboards at least every block. Critics say Mr. Karimov's country is rapidly on its way to becoming another China or, for those who are more charitable, Singapore.
The third-largest republic of the old Soviet Union, with 23 million people -- only Russia and Ukraine are larger -- Uzbekistan was transformed into a virtual cotton plantation during Soviet rule, and it still grows more cotton than any country except the United States.
It was settled in the 15th century by descendants of Genghis Khan, but its civilization stretches nearly 2,500 years to the legendary Silk Road cities of Samarkand and Bukhara. Conquered at various times by Alexander the Great, Muslim invaders, Mongols, Turks and Russians, it has always been a turbulent place -- the fiery crucible of Central Asia.
That has rarely been more true than now, with its current borders touching on the four other new countries in the region, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, as well as on Afghanistan.
It is hard to look at the geography of the country, which is the size of California, without at least partly understanding the overriding craze for order. Neighboring Tajikistan has been in flames almost since its independence in 1992. Its civil war has been particularly bloody, and people here have watched most of it on television.
The situation to the south in Afghanistan, where fundamentalist faction leaders and drug merchants roam unchecked, is even worse. Uzbeks quickly remind any visitor that nearly a quarter of the 13,000 Soviet soldiers who died in the long, fruitless war for Afghanistan were from their republic. It is a legacy nobody can forget.
"Take a good look around this region and tell me where you would rather live," asked Zafar Ruzeyev, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. "We see this problem of human rights and developing countries differently than you do in the West. You always talk about this abstract notion of freedom. But people are not prepared for democracy here. What they are prepared for, and what they want, is stability."
No one could argue that he is at least partly right. Compared with any of its neighbors, Uzbekistan is flourishing in many ways. And it is stable. A stroll across the main Charcu Market in the center of Tashkent is a delight for anyone who has visited similar markets in other countries of the former Soviet Union.
Lamb is fresh, plentiful and cheap enough at less than $1 a pound for most people to buy. Long wooden tables groan with the same spices that enticed Marco Polo: cloves, rosemary and basil. Peppers lie in enormous heaps. Stalls with many types of bread, all fresh, ring the market.
"We know that the President is not kind," said a 37-year-old merchant with a mouth full of tin teeth and a patch over his right eye, who sold roasted peanuts. Like most people in Uzbekistan, he spoke on condition of anonymity. "We know that the country is not always kind. But we can live well here if we are quiet. There is no war, no famine. If we are quiet we are left alone."
In this part of the world, that is a deal that is increasingly hard to come by and one that many people accept in the same spirit in which they used to accept Soviet rule. They go about their lives quietly nodding to power and doing what they want. It is the only way, for example, to explain the economy.
According to United Nations figures, this is one of the poorest developed countries in the world, where people earn less than $50 a month. Even during Soviet times it had among the lowest per capita incomes in the region.
Peasants have an average of 10 children, the population growth rate is among the highest in the world and more than half of the people are younger than 15.
But it is also a country where everyone appears to eat well, and where from one end of the vast country to the next, food is always for sale at prices people can afford. Even now, few markets in Moscow have the diversity, quality and consistency of the items available in most of Uzbekistan.
"The Uzbek who lives in his house privately on what he grows is better off than many Russians," said Volodya Shatorov, an economist who works for the Agriculture Ministry here. "What is not reflected in income levels is that this is an agrarian society, where people know how to live off the land. Factories that close or do not pay their wages -- while a problem here, too -- do not have the same impact as they do in many Russian cities."
Mr. Karimov manages to keep 115 different nationalities from butchering each other -- with heavy-handed tactics, of course. But compared with what is going on in many former Soviet republics, it is an achievement. His rejection of Islamic fundamentalism is as welcome in the West as his human rights record is deplored.
Many Westerners feared that Central Asia, particularly Uzbekistan, would embrace Islamic fundamentalism after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. That has not occurred, although there are pockets of extremism. A more secular form of Islam predominates.
"The people who run this country see Islamic fundamentalism as something approaching a return to the Middle Ages," said an official of a Western organization that has long been based here. "This is way off their personal values. They don't want ties to those societies where a return to Islam is a great development. As long as Mr. Karimov can keep the mullahs from sweeping across the steppes, the West will find some way to deal with him."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Uzbekistan, freedom has taken a back seat to stability. Monuments in the Silk Road city of Samarkand (left) evoked the country's turbulent history, while the city's bustling markets helped explain its current stability. (Photographs by Otto Pohl for The New York Times)
 
Maps show the location of Tashkent, Uzbekistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UZBEKISTAN (95%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UZBEKISTAN; UZBEKISTAN (95%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); MILLENNIUM (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RELIGION (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



392 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: Use of Hydrogen as Fuel Is Moving Closer to Reality

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
Buoyed by renewed political interest and technological promise, efforts are being stepped up to make hydrogen an important source of energy in the United States.
For decades, advocates of hydrogen have promoted it as the fuel of the future: an abundant, environmentally clean source of energy for power plants, airplanes, automobiles, homes and just about everything a modern society finds essential. 
 Advocates of a hydrogen economy say that unlike gasoline and other fossil fuels, with their noxious combustion byproducts, hydrogen produces nothing worse than water when it burns. And it can be used to produce electricity directly through chemical reactions in a device called a fuel cell.
Surely hydrogen would be the preferable fuel in many cases, its supporters have argued, if only a few problems could be overcome, like finding a cheap method for extracting it from water or natural gas, and setting up a storage and distribution network.
Although the technical problems remain, hydrogen's political future suddenly seems brighter. One of the gas's leading advocates is Representative Robert S. Walker, Republican of Pennsylvania, who became chairman of the House Science Committee in January. He is sponsoring a bill to increase the Department of Energy's $10 million annual budget for hydrogen research by $100 million over the next three years.
"Hydrogen has amazing potential and it should have its chance," Mr. Walker said in an interview. "We have the ability to overcome a lot of the problems other people see with hydrogen and, if we can make it work, it would fundamentally change the country." Mr. Walker, who is also vice chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said his bill had a good chance of surviving the new, budget-cutting Congress because it would redirect Energy Department money from other projects and calls for no new spending.
The advantages of hydrogen as a fuel include energy independence and perhaps dispensing with many antipollution regulations, "and that's something that's attractive to conservatives like myself," Mr. Walker said.
Representative George E. Brown, the California Democrat who formerly headed the Science Committee, said he previously supported work on hydrogen but opposed the bill because it would drain money from other energy research. "I don't think you can justify that rapid an increase in funding," he said, "particularly since everything we do siphons money from something else. There will be some increase in funds for hydrogen, but I don't think the Appropriations Committee or the House will vote for all the money he wants."
Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa, said he would be promoting a similar bill on the other side of the Capitol, but could not guess what its prospects were. "I don't know if it's high on anybody's agenda except mine right now," he said. Generally, the Government should support only basic research, he said, but in the case of a few technologies like hydrogen, it should assume a more active role, like sponsoring demonstration projects with industry and purchasing hydrogen-fueled vehicles to help create a market.
Hydrogen researchers from universities, Government laboratories and private companies say their incipient industry has already produced cars and trucks that would be ready to market if problems of fuel supply and distribution could be solved. At an annual meeting sponsored by the National Hydrogen Association, held last month in a Washington suburb, participants rode in a modified golf cart powered by electricity from a new type of fuel cell and cruised around in a Ford pickup with an engine that engineers at the University of California at Riverside had modified to burn compressed hydrogen.
Edward Trlica, president of Energy Partners, a company in West Palm Beach, Fla., that makes the modified cart, said such vehicles were ready for fleet use now in places where there could be an assured hydrogen supply, like bus and shuttle routes that operate from fixed depots. By the end of the year, he said, the company expected to be operating five of the 11-passenger carts as a test at the airport in Palms Springs, Calif.
John J. Kennedy, an executive at Allied Signal Inc., who is chairman of the board of the association, said hydrogen work was being pursued aggressively in Japan and across Europe, where gasoline prices are three to four times as high as in the United States. "In this country, people are in a wait-and-see mode because oil prices are so low," he said, "and that's why we still need some Government assistance to move the technology until the market here is ready."
Economics and concerns about hydrogen's safety could limit its wider use for decades, others contend. Current ways of producing hydrogen from water or natural gas are expensive and require large amounts of energy, said Dr. Saifur Rahman, director of the Center for Energy and Global Environment at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and University in Blacksburg. In addition, he believes people will probably balk at having hydrogen pipelines or storage tanks put in their communities because of concerns about cost and safety.
Advocates say hydrogen, even when stored under pressure, can be handled safely. The fuel in the tank of a hydrogen-powered car, for instance, is far less volatile than gasoline and, if the tank is ruptured, hydrogen gas would dissipate quickly into the air. Even if a spark ignited the gas, proponents say, it would burn away rapidly and cause less damage than gasoline. "People are used to gasoline and forget how dangerous it can be," said James Heffel, an engineer working with the University of California hydrogen truck.
Neil P. Rossmeissl, manager of the hydrogen program at the Energy Department, said the nation spent about $10 million a year on hydrogen research through the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo. In addition, he said, the Government spent more than $110 million on research related to hydrogen work.
"We are working on the production, storage and infrastructure for distribution of hydrogen," Mr. Rossmeissl said. "Hydrogen has been considered the long shot for the country's energy needs, something that wouldn't be ready until 2030. But we have fuel cells and engines now that can use hydrogen, and should have other end-user technology ready by 2000 or 2005. A problem is getting production technology ready at the same time."
Hydrogen is an extremely abundant element, since there are two atoms of it in every molecule of water. Unfortunately, the atoms are so firmly locked that present methods use more energy to extract hydrogen than can be produced by the fuel. This cost inefficiency makes it suited only for specialized needs, like fueling space rockets or running fuel cells on spacecraft.
Advocates hope the production cost can be brought down with methods like photoelectro-chemistry, a technique developed at the University of Hawaii. In the procedure a thin semiconductor suspended in water produces hydrogen using only the energy of sunlight. This method is being scaled up from laboratory size and could produce a working system in five years, Mr. Rossmeissl said.
Another promising approach, under development at the Government hydrogen laboratory in Colorado, the University of Miami and elsewhere, is based on photobiology, and involves illuminating certain algae or bacteria suspended in water vapor. When exposed to sunlight, the organisms would function as part of a self-generating, living reactor that produced hydrogen and oxygen from the water.
Hydrogen advocates also have hopes for a method that could solve both the production and distribution problem: generating hydrogen from natural gas. Gas companies already make commercial quantities of hydrogen from natural gas in devices called reformers. Natural gas mixed with intensely hot steam produces hydrogen.
If small-scale reformers could be developed and installed at places like airports and the nation's more than 150,000 gasoline stations, the mechanical systems needed for a hydrogen economy could emerge by using the natural gas pipe system already in place, proponents say.
But current reformer technology was developed 25 years ago, Mr. Rossmeissl noted, and little work had been sponsored by the industry to improve it. "We want to develop some base technology in reformers that could be applied to large and small applications, but nothing is being done now," he said. "Some people have some ideas about this, but there is no money for it."
Hydrogen has another major problem: storage. Lightweight hydrogen contains less energy per unit of volume than gasoline or even natural gas, and it must be either compressed or liquefied at extremely low temperatures to be concentrated enough to be a useful fuel. Heavy, bulky vessels, which would consume extra space in vehicles, would be required for storage.
To overcome this problem, researchers have turned to solid-state storage methods that use materials like metal alloys and activated carbon to absorb and retain hydrogen. When containers of these materials are cooled and hydrogen is forced in, the scientists say, the carbon or the alloys, called metal hydrides, can hold concentrations of the fuel comparable to compressed gas systems, but with less weight and bulk. Heating these storage systems or decreasing their internal pressure causes the hydrogen to be released, they say.
Although prototype hydride storage systems are being tested in cars and for other uses, Mr. Rossmeissl said more research was needed on these solid-state storage systems to find the best materials, to see if they could be economically produced and to check whether they remained durable and maintained their storage capacity with repeated loading and unloading.
"Some of the best science being done right now is in hydrogen research," he said. "The biggest problem with hydrogen is still its costs, the cost of producing and storing it, and changing the infrastructure of society to use it."


GRAPHIC: In this fuel cell, hydrogen and oxygen are electrically combined to produce direct current; the only byproduct is water.
Diagram: "Converting Hydrogen Into Electricity"
 The positive and negative terminals are divided by a solid electrolyte. At the annode, hydrogen gas is divided into electrons and protons (positive hydrogen ions). The protons pass thorugh a solid electroyte to the cathode leaving behind the elctrons. When the terminals are connected with an external curcuit, there is a flow of electrical current. At the cathode, the hydrogen ions, electrons and oxygen (from air) combine to form water.
 A series of fuel cels combine to power a motor in a vehicle. (Sources: Department of Energy; Energy Partners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HYDROGEN ASSOCIATION (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; HYDROGEN; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER HYDROGEN ENERGY (92%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E ROBERT S WALKER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



393 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: A Job Opening in Brooklyn: Poet Laureate

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
The Brooklyn poet laureate's study is unused now. There are an old memo pad, books and photographs in the tiny, lamplighted Brooklyn Heights den. A walking stick, polished but untouched, stands in a corner.
And there is a poem taped to the bulletin board. It opens: 
 I have no soil but this hard ground,
Stone and subterranean quarry,
Underground rails, dynamos, steel
Beneath the granite rising, I inhale.
Brooklyn's poet laureate position became vacant March 11. Norman Rosten, poet, playwright, novelist, memoirist, died at age 81. There has already been a musical tribute to Mr. Rosten beside the East River, and there will be a poetry reading and memorial service at Borough Hall in Brooklyn next month.
And then there will be the matter of his title -- poet laureate of Brooklyn -- as well as the question of a possible successor. It is a title at once grand and modest, comic and appropriate and perfect. It is also a title not many in Brooklyn are aware exists.
"Some of you may say, who needs one? And I say we do," Borough President Howard Golden said with a smile when he bestowed the title on Mr. Rosten in 1979. "Someone reminded me that Walt Whitman would have been a better choice. But we wanted a live poet, and Norman was available."
There is no shortage of potential successors, for Brooklyn is deep in poets, people writing in all sorts of languages and voices, dialects, idioms, and, yes, occasionally even couplets. The poets of Brooklyn read their work in a couple of cafes and a lot of classrooms. They appear on the public access cable channels, reading poems about cultural imperialism and about the I.R.T. They sing the body electric, and write about paying the Con Ed bill.
There is an 80-year-old Dutch biologist in Sheepshead Bay who writes poetry on the side and who has published a collection called "Breuckelyn." There is the recently retired "Poet of the D Train," who said he would come out of retirement to accept the poet laureate title. There is Louis Reyes Rivera, a 50-year-old Puerto Rican who maintains that Congress, in a ceremony several years ago, officially named him the poet laureate of Bed-Stuy.
There is Anthony Vitale, the 20-year-old Italian-American poet prodigy in Marine Park who has studied under Allen Ginsberg at Brooklyn College. There is Konstantin K. Kuzminsky, who was born in Leningrad, but who now roams Brighton Beach reciting poems in, he says, 24 languages. And there is Enid Dame, who lives in Brooklyn with her husband and fellow poet, Donald Lev, publishing all sorts of poetry in the Home Planet News, a local literary quarterly.
One of her works ends with the ominously poetic Brooklyn warning, "Anything you don't see will come back to haunt you."
Brooklyn's song of itself, then, keeps being sung.
"In Brooklyn, there is a sense of real culture," said Dennis Nurkse, a poet who lived in Manhattan, Latin America and Europe before arriving in Brooklyn in 1972. "It is the culture of lived lives."
The lives include those of Whitman and Hart Crane and Marianne Moore. Brooklyn was muse to all of them, and to Mr. Rosten. He wrote a book, "Under the Boardwalk," about growing up in Coney Island, and crafted scores of poems informed or infiltrated in one way or another by Brooklyn. Of Brooklyn, he wrote: "At its mere mention, I have seen people smile, groan, look suspicious, back away a step, embrace me, threaten me, pass a hand unsteadily across their faces, weep, stutter, or fall into a trance."
Mr. Golden, aware of Mr. Rosten's output even if he hadn't read all of his works, broached the idea of naming a Brooklyn poet laureate over coffee and bagels one morning 16 years ago.
"Norman was one of the last Brooklyn poets with a secure ability to get published," said Matthew Paris, a poet who has organized readings, workshops and benefits in Brooklyn for decades. "I think Howard Golden invented the idea of a poet laureate of Brooklyn in a moment of caprice. And, I should say, inspiration."
There are no formal duties to the job, certainly no great benefits. And as recounted by Mr. Rosten in a published essay, not much was negotiable when he became the first and only person ever to hold the spectacularly uncompensated position.
"Not even a part-time salary?" Mr. Rosten asked Mr. Golden over coffee that morning.
"It would create problems, believe me," Mr. Golden said.
"Would I have the use of an office, a secretary?" he asked.
"Maybe a work space; no secretary. It's a question of protocol."
"What about a parking space?"
"Absolutely not," Mr. Golden said. "I couldn't even get one for my daughter."
Mr. Golden has remained mostly quiet on the question of a successor to Mr. Rosten.
"The Borough President," said Greg Brooks, Mr. Golden's chief of staff, "is not really focusing on the future."
If and when the Borough President does turn to face the future and contemplate naming a second poet laureate of Brooklyn, the choice will be from a much-changed borough. The tides of immigration and economics have stocked Brooklyn with a different population pool of poets.
There are Arabs in Bay Ridge, a Chinatown in Sunset Park, a small continent of island natives from the Caribbean in Flatbush. Whether moved by political persecution in a foreign country or the loss of a rent-stabilized apartment in Manhattan, the new poets have arrived looking for a place to work, a place to be moved by.
They have bumped into and and mixed with other poets from other places, including those from the old Brooklyn, which might no longer be.
"A real, real Brooklyn person, a real, real Brooklyn poet -- I have no idea what or who that would be," said Leo Vroman, the retired biologist who was born in Holland and has lived in Sheepshead Bay for 40 years, publishing a series of poems about Plum Beach. "It's an interesting question, and I suppose one worth asking."
Answering the question by formal proclamation could be delicate for Mr. Golden, said Richard Bartee, a self-described "public poet" who was known in his heyday as the "Poet of the D Train."
"I call it ego-nomics, because whoever gets the title, potshots will be taken," Mr. Bartee said.
Donald Lev, though, thought he might have a solution.
"Maybe Howard will name himself," said Mr. Lev, a former cabdriver whom other Brooklyn poets have proposed as a candidate. "I don't know, these days, the poet laureate probably would have as much power as the Borough President does. Or doesn't."
More than a handful of Brooklyn poets doubt there will be a successor. But if such a prospect makes them momentarily mournful, it does not exactly break their hearts. Brooklyn has already broken them, and is busy mending them again, as well. The poets are absorbing and distilling everything: the juvenile violence and economic disillusionment, the AIDS and police brutality, the wonders of Prospect Park.
"Brooklyn brings out a provincial side of me that I don't mind confessing to," said Louis Reyes Rivera, who grew up in Bushwick surrounded by Italians, Hasidic Jews, Puerto Ricans and blacks. "But what Brooklyn affords its poets is the opportunity to influence tolerance. Poets, or cultural workers as I call them, can help others understand the beauty of difference."
To other poets, the enduring poetic appeal of Brooklyn is a plainly, powerfully physical phenomenon. Enid Dame talks of "cracked sidewalks and screaming people and flowers growing among them all."
Kimiko Hahn, the daughter of a mother from Maui and a father from Milwaukee, moved to Brooklyn nine months ago and has already written of its gardens and their plum tomatoes "glowing back at the dusk like three firm hearts."
"There is a particular kind of light in Brooklyn -- different, European," said Phyllis Capello, who was born in Bensonhurst and who now lives in Windsor Terrace and who has published a long poem called "Walking into the Dream." "And the ocean is in your vocabulary."
There appears no dictionary large enough to hold the full vocabulary employed by Brooklyn's poets.
Linda Cousins, a poet, edited an anthology called "Black and in Brooklyn," and she said it was loaded with verse about "poverty and race, passion and love." Mervyn Taylor, a Trinidadian, said his poetry and the conversations along Ocean Avenue "have got beyond the nostalgia that came with our self-imposed exile."
"If I stayed too long, it must be for something," said Mr. Taylor, a 53-year-old teacher.
For others, as it has been for ages, Brooklyn, whatever it is, is simply all they know. Anthony Vitale, not yet 21, lives in Marine Park and writes about what he calls "an urban suburbia."
"It would be pretty impossible to find one voice for Brooklyn," he said. "But conversation is what Brooklyn is about because Brooklyn English is different than any other. How people talk to each other in Brooklyn is unlike any other place."
Jamez Nobles, a 16-year-old from Crown Heights, listened to the voice in his head for years, and then began to put that inner monologue on paper. A student at Metropolitan Corporate Academy, he participated this year in a program called Poetry in the Schools.
"I always had poetry in the back of my mind, but it never came out," said Jamez, the oldest of four boys. "Now it is. It's mostly about desires, wants. Brooklyn is an interesting place. I go to Bay Ridge and it's like I'm down South. But I live on Utica Avenue, and Brooklyn can be hard. You see stuff. It's unavoidable. I'm writing it down now. People say it's good. I'm amazed."
Maybe Howard Golden could take a look.
"I hope it doesn't end with my father," Patricia Rosten said of the position of poet laureate. "As someone said when they first heard of the title, 'Oh, good, we in Brooklyn really are civilized.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony Vitale often works out poetry problems at the East 27th Street piers in Sheepshead Bay. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Kimiko Hahn, center, with her daughters Miyako, left, and Reiko Hannan; The poetry of Jamez Nobles began with a voice in the back of his mind. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 24)
 
Chart:
 
Untitles and Lost, Part II
 Brooklyn, It's no longer romantic and smart
 lurking in storefromt alleys.
 Your subway teeth crushed me
 uncer invention wheels and
 spit me out onto cold sidwalds
 darkened by broken lights.
 Dogs sniffeing around fire hydrants,
 rain water forcing soggy newspapers
 down stuffed drains.
 Astreetlamp's cranky fildering
 coaching my twisted shadow
 chasing me down the street ANTHONY VITALE
 Marine Park
 
The Driver Said
boerum hill?
it used to be
gowanus
this ain't no
neighborhood
if ya butcher
comes to ya funeral
that's a
neighborhood ?<>ROBERT HERSHON (pg 1)
 
The Sunflower
After thirty years maintenance in transit yards
he has a quadruple by-pass, vegetables
in the back, zenias and sunflowers in front
where he chats to neighbors
from an aluminum folding chair. As my daughter
roller blades passed him
he hands her a paper bag of plum tomatoes
that I'll line up on the sill
beside those glowing back at dusk
like three firm hearts. Who does he talk to
when he talks to himself among the corn stalks?
And who does he recall while he sets the table for one
under the circle of light the size of his plate?
I think to ask but accept the fruit and wave thanks.
The brick wall of our apartment leans against
his identical floor-through. One sunflower
is so tall he ties it to the fence for support. KIMIKO HAHN
 
A Letter to Our Black Nation
Maybe Slavery Wasn't So Bad
This is a letter stating why life is so sad.
Sons and daughters are walkin' around with no dad.
Pushers making money off customers 10 and 12 thinkin' they're bad.
To this list there is alot I could add.
Well maybe slavery wasn't so bad.
Love is sex and sex is AIDS.
Your pocket is picked at the labor day parade.
In Brooklyn you get robbed for a value pack.
And you think hmm, well he was probably black.
Where black is phat and white is rad maybe slavery wasn't so bad.
During slavery you knew your place.
The only problem was it mattered what race.
The way the truth was blinded by a potato sack.
The truth is told that my Christ is black.
I prayed for you and you did for me.
But the problem is that was during slavery.
 JAMES NOBLES
 
Excelsior Fashion Products, Easter
They pay us time and a half
and they don't dare catch us
drinking: we're discreet,
don't pass a bottle, but each sips
a private pint, all sitting
in the narrow room with our backs
to each other, each facing
his work -- router, stain tray,
buffing wheel, drill press --
and with that sweet taste echoing
in our bones, we watch our hands
make what they always made
-- rosewood handles -- but now
we smile in delighted surprise
and when Marchaesi brings our envelopes
they record a full day's work
though it's a still noon,
the processions are still in the streets,
the choirs, the loudspeakers
bellowing Hallelujah: and we change
into our finest clothes in the locker room,
admiring each other's hatbrims, passing bottles
freely until all are empty, and at last
we separate in the brilliant street, each
in the direction of a different tolling bell. DENNIS NURKSE
 
On the Ave.
It's one of those nights
when the intersection is crazy
with cars, the park pavilion
is a sea of crack vials,
and the lady downstairs keeps
calling the cops.
Should we go out from our
prisons or just stay away
from the window? Perhaps
we might intercede
in someone's loneliness. "Hi!"
At least the phone is working.
Someone is dialing
like mad in the booth on
the corner, biting the end
of a blue scarf and turning
her back to the world.
There's an ambulance
screaming up the avenue
for that guy spinning
in his wheelchair, the one
whom the paramedics
don gloves to handle.
There's a red moon to go
with his craziness and
a gun salute from a rooftop.
Can we be seen with the lights on,
ducking in the kitchen, are they
firing at the moon? MERVYN TAYLOR
 
Riding the D-Train
Notice the rooftops,
the worm-eaten Brooklyn buildings.
Houses crawl by,
each with its private legend.
In one, a mother
is punishing her child
slowly, with great enjoyment.
In one, a daughter
is writing a novel
she can't show to anyone.
Notice your fellow riders:
that Asian girl chewing a toothpick,
the boy drawing trees on his hand,
the man in a business suit
whose shoes don't match.
Everything is important:
that thin girl, for instance,
in flowered dress, golden high heels.
How did her eyes get scarred?
Why is that old man crying?
Why does that woman carry
a cat in her pocketbook?
Don't underestimate
any of it.
Anything you don't see
will come back to haunt you. ENID DAME
From Anything You Don't See
(West Eind, 1992) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POETRY AND POETS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS POETRY (97%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSTEN, NORMAN; GOLDEN, HOWARD (BORO PRES); VITALE, ANTHONY; HAHN, KIMIKO; NOBLES, JAMES; SEXTON, JOE NORMAN ROSTEN (76%); HOWARD GOLDEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



394 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: MCA's Not So Excellent Adventure

 BODY:
No doubt Hollywood breathes easier now that MCA Inc. has come home after its star-crossed Japanese idyll. The Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, which bought the entertainment conglomerate in 1990 and has sold it to Seagram, is also pleased. It is rid of a sinkhole that confounded its dreams of transforming the movie and music business. Happiest of all is Edgar Bronfman Jr., the Seagram president, who has a new $5.7 billion toy.
But it is worth noting that the saga of MCA's dealings with Matsushita was an exercise in hubris and self-delusion. Each side viewed the other as ripe for partnership without being clear about the details. Maybe it was racist for some Americans to be upset about the Japanese takeover of such cultural jewels as Columbia Pictures and MCA. The Seagram deal has not, after all, inspired articles about Canada's "invasion" of Hollywood. But there were clearly outmoded cultural stereotypes in the way the two sides dealt with each other. 
 In going after MCA, Matsushita talked of synergy and assumed it would effortlessly capture MCA's library of movies and programs for its video recorders, CD-ROM's, digitalized TV's and the like. Its naive view was that it had bought a well-run, consistently profitable Hollywood studio that would continue to produce international hits.
But instead of "Jurassic Park," Matsushita got "Waterworld," the new Kevin Costner film that looms as the biggest budget buster ever made, and a vortex of change in the world of communications that ruined its plans. Hit by a recession in Japan and a scandal that forced out its high command, the company shrank from the aggressive and risky strategies pushed by the Americans, though it retains 20 percent of MCA as a hedge so it can gain future tie-ins in Hollywood. In the end, Matsushita avoided losing its shirt, which is more than Sony can say about Columbia Pictures, which has run up losses in the billions of dollars.
For their part, the leaders of MCA bought into the illusion -- maybe from "Bridge on the River Kwai" -- that the Japanese would defer respectfully to a venerable corporate elder like Lew Wasserman, whose scheme had been to reap a fortune for himself and tap Matsushita's cash reserves for new company ventures. To their shock, Mr. Wasserman and his deputy, Sidney Sheinberg, had to commute back and forth to Osaka to meet with underlings, without ever persuading the parent company to embark on the projects that were a major reason for selling MCA in the first place. It seems never to have occurred to the Hollywood moguls that Matsushita would not give them carte blanche in acquiring a record company or allying with a television network. They compounded their error by throwing temper tantrums and threatening to take a walk when they did not get their way. Small wonder that Matsushita did not bother even to check with its Hollywood partners when it began negotiating with the Bronfmans.
Bigger than any other Hollywood drama in the offing is the question of which studio conglomerate will win the race to produce and market films, television programs and music in ways unimagined now. At least in the case of MCA the decision is out of the hands of a faceless corporation with no appetite for risk and adventure and in the hands of Mr. Bronfman, a onetime movie producer who will be anything but passive with his investment.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (78%); CANADA (71%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: MCA INC; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO PANASONIC CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCA INC; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (78%); CANADA (71%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



395 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 4; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1962 words

HEADLINE: McNamara's Retreat

BYLINE: By Max Frankel; Max Frankel, a columnist for The New York Times Magazine and a former executive editor of The Times, was a Washington correspondent covering diplomacy and the White House in the 1960's.

 BODY:

IN RETROSPECT
The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam.
By Robert S. McNamara with Brian VanDeMark.
Illustrated. 414 pp. New York:
Times Books/Random House. $27.50. 
 IN his 79th year, Robert S. McNamara at long last offers the public a glimpse of his aching conscience. The most willful Vietnam warrior in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, he was also the first at the top to admit defeat, in private. He then stood silent on the war for a quarter-century and drowned his sorrow in good works at the World Bank. Mr. McNamara personified the slow maturing of America's foreign policy from cocky interventionism to cost-conscious realism, yet for a generation he refused to explain his conversion, explore his mistakes, judge his colleagues or instruct posterity. The pain, or the guilt, was simply too great. As he states in the preface to "In Retrospect": "This is the book I planned never to write."
Until now, he contends, the story of how "the best and the brightest" got it wrong in Vietnam has not been told. But David Halberstam, who applied that ironic phrase to his rendering of the tale 23 years ago, told it better in many ways than Mr. McNamara does now. So, too, did the Pentagon Papers, that huge trove of documents assembled at Mr. McNamara's behest when he first recognized a debt to history. The contemporary analyses in the papers, which were leaked to The Times in 1971, stand up so well that they now serve their patron as a major source.
What Mr. McNamara adds to the public record are some White House documents and tape transcripts revealing, most notably, his own agonized attempts in 1967 to persuade President Lyndon B. Johnson to stop sending more men to the slaughter: the Secretary of Defense who had come to tame the Pentagon with managerial wizardry ended up desperately begging for a fig leaf for withdrawal, in the form of a coalition that would inevitably give the Vietcong dominance in Saigon. Mr. McNamara says he does not know to this day whether he thus quit or was fired. "Maybe it was both."
But he left with a whimper, not a bang. So why speak out now? The main reason, he says, is that he has "grown sick at heart witnessing the cynicism and even contempt" with which so many Americans view their institutions and leaders. He knows how much Vietnam contributed to that disaffection; he would never deny the war's terrible damage. But he hopes to prove that the mistakes were "mostly honest," even if traceable to a ghastly ignorance of the Vietnamese people, culture and terrain, and the historical forces of that time.
Why should the rest of us relive his agony? Mr. McNamara, characteristically statistical, points to "11 major causes for our disaster in Vietnam" in a chapter called "The Lessons of Vietnam." But implicitly his book screams another lesson: Though cynicism and contempt for power are destructive of government, a respectful skepticism is essential, and rarely wrong.
BY delaying his war memoir so long, Mr. McNamara has greatly compounded the difficulty of his mission. Now that the Soviet Union lies in ruins and American corporations beg for business in China and Vietnam, no one under the age of 50 can be expected to fathom the fears and phobias of the 1960's to which he rightly ascribes the Indochina disaster. President Dwight D. Eisenhower, the most venerated American of the time, had taught -- and the Kennedy and Johnson teams never dared to doubt in time -- that if South Vietnam was "lost" to Communism, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand and Malaysia would fall like dominoes, imperiling India, Burma, Indonesia and the Philippines, if not also Japan, and emboldening the Russians and Chinese to extend Communist conquests by military force or subversion in ways that would sooner or later provoke a nuclear World War III, the very destruction of civilization.
Yes, that is how America's leaders spoke to each other and, all too persuasively, to the public. Mr. McNamara's book reminds us that they even repeated the litany in memos to their Presidents, to inoculate them against any temptation to retreat from Vietnam. And if all those dominoes were not cause enough, there were promises to be kept in order to preserve the value of America's other diplomatic threats and commitments.
Mr. McNamara and his generation came to power convinced that the "appeasement" of Nazi Germany -- the failure to block its early grasp for Europe's dominoes -- had led inevitably to a catastrophic World War II. Averting another such disaster, they were sure, required punishing anything resembling Communist aggression in its earliest stages, when the cost would be tolerable. That was their creed as they rebuilt Western Europe and stood toe to toe with the Soviet armies across Germany, fought to a bloody stalemate against China in Korea, threatened war over Berlin and risked war to force Soviet missiles out of Cuba. Thus "contained," the Soviets and Chinese took to endorsing "wars of liberation," thereby qualifying even distant uprisings as threats to American security. Mr. McNamara's first assignment from President John F. Kennedy was to augment America's nuclear power, whose use was unimaginable, with the forces and weapons they were sure would be needed to fight "conventional" wars.
From this bed of doctrine grew what Mr. McNamara considers his team's most fateful error: mistaking Ho Chi Minh's nationalist drive to unite Vietnam as the challenge of a monolithic Communist world. That misjudgment foreclosed any discussion of how an American withdrawal from Indochina could be made strategically tolerable. It even prevented analysis, before the plunge, of how high a price the commitment was worth. Mr. McNamara's dry rendering of those fateful tenets of containment fails to convey the passion with which they were embraced. And he mostly ignores their powerful resonance in domestic politics.
Kennedy, no less than Johnson, subscribed to these simplistic doctrines and the misjudgments they inspired, even though Mr. McNamara, without persuasive evidence, deems it "highly probable" that Kennedy would have pulled back from massive intervention in a second term. This presumes that had Kennedy lived, the same cast of senior officials would have avoided what Mr. McNamara describes as a second tier of error: the failure to live by the mantra that the battle in Vietnam was political, a fight for the "hearts and minds" of an abused peasantry, and that Americans could assist but never supplant the South Vietnamese.
In this pew, Mr. McNamara himself was a prominent sinner. His can-do spirit found no mission impossible, even as Saigon's governments and armies crumbled. His domineering intellect and predilection for systems analysis made him a pathetic victim of erroneous and deceptive military audits of bodies counted, weapons captured, sorties flown, supply lines ruptured. Soon enough, as the press decided, it became "McNamara's war," and certainly America's.
Mr. McNamara deplores the absence of political advice from old Asia hands who had been driven from Government service in the McCarthy purges. But as he proves again in this memoir, he did not easily integrate political wisdom and intuition into his analyses. Even in retrospect, he does not associate the drift into war in Vietnam with the Republican taunts that Democrats had "lost" China to Communism. (Kennedy was afraid to recognize not only China but even Outer Mongolia!) Mr. McNamara cannot bring himself to believe that the election calendar affected Johnson's willingness to escalate the war in 1965 but not in 1964 or, as Johnson eventually confessed to Doris Kearns, that he stayed the course in Asia because he feared losing effectiveness at home -- like Truman after the "loss" of China -- as much as he feared the repercussions of defeat abroad.
Finally, Mr. McNamara recounts a third tier of error -- an escalating pattern of military misjudgment. He is hard on the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their misplaced optimism in the early years, their always excessive faith in high-tech weapons and their later expectations that massive bombing and frontal battles could wear down the Vietnamese enemy. He is remiss in not fully rebutting the postwar claims that timid civilians had tied the military's hands with unreasonable limits on troop commitments and bombing targets. Mr. McNamara emphasizes how little was accomplished by bombings heavier even than those in World War II. And he explains Johnson's caution in target selection by recalling the fear that a more rapid escalation could provoke Chinese intervention. But Americans who cannot accept David's triumph over Goliath draw more belligerent "lessons" from this history, which Mr. McNamara should have engaged more directly.
Even more disappointing is Mr. McNamara's unwillingness to explore the human tragedies and political legacies of this longest American war. What was it like to send tens of thousands to their deaths in an increasingly dubious cause? How did the strain affect the men in charge? We get a glimpse of Jacqueline Kennedy beating him on the chest in protest against the war, and of angry insults hurled on the ski slopes, but no real introspection. Mr. McNamara says the war tore deeply at his own family, but quickly adds: "I am not comfortable speaking in such terms."
What then of the political legacy? How, without growing cynical, can citizens protect themselves against the stubborn ignorance and misplaced zeal of their leaders? In the darkest days, Mr. McNamara remembers, he watched the demonstrators from his Pentagon window and insisted that his subordinates show respect for the freedoms of speech and assembly. But he took refuge -- and takes it even now -- in opinion polls that recorded support from the majority of Americans who, as he well knew, had been misinformed and denied vital information at every major turn.
"Looking back," he writes, "I clearly erred by not forcing . . . a knock-down, drag-out debate over the loose assumptions, unasked questions and thin analyses underlying our military strategy in Vietnam. I had spent 20 years as a manager identifying problems and forcing organizations -- often against their will -- to think deeply and realistically about alternative courses of action and their consequences. I doubt I will ever fully understand why I did not do so here."
YET even now Mr. McNamara means he should have stirred debate only inside the small circle of Presidential counselors led by himself, Secretary of State Dean Rusk and McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser (later succeeded by Walt Rostow). Mr. McNamara blames Johnson for going to war furtively, with no regard for the rights of Congress and the public, but he rejects any obligation to resign in protest or, once out of office, to share his policy disagreements with the country. Cabinet officers, he contends, should have a constituency of one: the President -- from whom they derive all authority and through whom alone they can be held accountable.
That is surely the right ethic for normal times. Unelected officials should not steal their President's mandate to pursue an independent course. But a thousand dead Americans a month create their own constituency. Even military discipline admits a higher duty than hierarchical loyalty when power is badly used and puts lives at risk.
Mr. McNamara relieved his private turmoil by reading poetry, and shared his misgivings with Robert F. Kennedy and a few other intimates. But he refused to abandon or attack the President whom he had helped to guide into quicksand. He and Johnson "loved and respected" each other, in a bond that even now, in retrospect, keeps the public at a distance looking on, with skepticism, I hope.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IN RETROSPECT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (78%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (78%); 

COMPANY: TIMES BOOKS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (78%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LITERATURE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX; VANDEMARK, BRIAN; MCNAMARA, ROBERT S JOHN F KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



396 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Critical Of Tokyo Plan To Rein In Yen

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: SANUR, Indonesia, Sunday, April 16

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin told his Japanese counterpart this morning that the emergency financial package Japan issued last week was so vague that it had failed to reverse the fall of the dollar against the yen. And the Secretary pressed for far more action before the currency gyrations threaten the economic stability of the world's biggest trading region.
The meeting with Japan's Finance Minister, Masayoshi Takemura, came at the opening of a meeting of finance ministers from around the Pacific on the resort island of Bali. A senior Administration official who took part in the session said that Mr. Takemura, a politician with no financial background prior to assuming his post last year, conceded that the package announced by Tokyo had "not been received favorably by the market and by market analysts." 
 The official said Mr. Takemura had promised more specific action to stimulate Japan's economy and deregulate its market in the next month or so. But American officials clearly fear that could be too little, too late, and that the dollar could fall even further in the interim.
Emerging from the meeting, Mr. Rubin also said that the Japanese had inquired whether the United States was interested in bolstering the dollar by issuing Treasury bonds denominated in Japanese yen rather than in dollars.
"He asked it rather than suggested it," said Mr. Rubin, who is on his first extended international trip as Treasury Secretary. "And I told him we had no intention of doing so."
The idea of issuing American securities in yen has been floated in recent days, by both Americans and Japanese, as a quick fix to the exchange rate troubles that are resounding around the world. The theory is that Japanese investors, as well as other investors around the world, would feel more secure buying a yen-denominated bond because it would insulate them from any further fall in the dollar. If the dollar did fall after the bonds were issued, the cost would be born by the United States Government, which would have to pay back the bondholders in more valuable Japanese yen.
But such a bond issue would be highly unusual and, in the eyes of many American officials, a bit demeaning to their own currency. It might also relieve the pressure on Japan to take some of the fundamental steps needed to bring the currencies back in line, including opening its markets, just when American officials are urging the rest of Asia to intensify that pressure.
There was no sign that the meeting had achieved agreement on how to correct the startling 16 percent fall of the dollar against the yen in recent months.
A brief statement issued by the two countries afterward said that Mr. Rubin and Mr. Takemura, who came to office in a political deal that brought the current, shaky Japanese coalition Government to power, agreed that the currency shift "by no means reflects the economic fundamentals." They promised to "consult closely and to cooperate as appropriate" in coming weeks, the code words used among finance ministers to try to convince the markets that the two Governments will act in concert to reverse any further fall of the dollar. But in recent weeks, that cooperation appears to have been spotty, and it has usually not worked.
Though Mr. Rubin described today's meeting as "in tone, cordial," it clearly came at a time of sharp tensions with Tokyo over what American officials term Japan's intransigence in opening its automobile and auto parts markets to far more foreign goods. Autos were supposed to be an important part of a broader agreement President Clinton negotiated in 1993, but last week the Administration publicly warned Japan that it would move to impose tariffs on billions of dollars in Japanese products if major progress was not made in the next three weeks.
The dollar's troubles and the yen's surge have loomed over this meeting. Many countries throughout the Pacific borrowed yen heavily from Japan throughout the 1980's and the first half of the 90's to pay for public works projects, and now find themselves paying far more on those loans then they had bargained for.
Moreover, the yen's surge seems bound to accelerate Japan's race into Southeast Asia, as Japanese companies -- struggling to regain their competitiveness as the costs of their products soar -- rush to move more factories out of Japan. For example, here in Indonesia, a boom in Japanese investments in assembly lines is under way, totaling $1.56 billion last year. It is a welcome development for many in this country, one of the 10 "big emerging markets" that the Clinton Administration has focused on to gain a foothold for American business.
The yen's rise also complicates the region's delicate power relationships, especially as many nations in Asia prepare to celebrate their liberation from Japanese occupation 50 years ago this summer. While countries in the region have always courted Japanese investors, they have usually kept their foreign exchange reserves in dollars, creating a strong link with the American economy. Now countries like Taiwan are rethinking the wisdom of that strategy, having watched their reserves dwindle in buying power compared with the yen.
The disagreement over what to do about the dollar mirrors a larger argument over which of the world's two largest economic powers bears more responsibility for the fall of the dollar. The Japanese have long argued that the fundamental problem lies in Washington's addiction to deficit spending and its unwillingness to act decisively to cut expenditures.
American officials counter that the real problem is an overly strong yen, not a weak dollar, and that it is only made worse by what they see as Japan's dithering on broad economic reforms that have been discussed for years. They contend that it is up to the Japanese Government to find ways both to stimulate Japan's economy and bring in a burst of imports. That, in turn, should cut Japan's $64 billion trade surplus and presumably bring the yen and the dollar back into each other's orbit.
But Mr. Rubin's aides grimaced when they saw the much-heralded new economic plan, because it included no numbers and few specific commitments. The markets were also unimpressed -- the dollar did not recover in Tokyo trading on Friday -- and an unusually large number of Japanese economists have denounced the effort as insufficient.
A large number of ideas put forth in the plan, like strengthening Japan's Fair Trade Commission to bolster competition, are chestnuts that have been around for years and that are discussed with renewed vigor whenever there is a re-eruption of American-Japanese trade conflicts.
The element of Japan's package that most pleased the United States was a reduction of its discount rate to 1 percent, from 1.75 percent, although American officials expressed skepticism about whether any changes in rates already so low could move the currency markets. The biggest element of the plan was an offer to speed up Japan's deregulation effort, as well as to spend more on public works and to allow the resumption of deficit spending in hopes that it will lift the Japanese economy out of its doldrums.
But the powerful Japanese Government bureaucracy managed to take any targets or numerical goals out of the plan, and the result was a patchwork that American officials regarded as little more than a restatement of unmet past commitments.
For Mr. Rubin, the trip to Indonesia, to be followed by four days in India, is an effort both to acquaint himself with America's challenges in Asia and to deliver some uncomfortable messages.
The challenge is to position the United States to help finance and build some of the world's largest public works projects. In a speech in Los Angeles on his way here, the Treasury Secretary estimated that Asia will need about $1 trillion in dams and power stations, new telephone networks and highways during the next five years.
But he is also facing growing skepticism about the speed with which the United States is pressing Asian countries to open their markets, liberalize their investment laws and let markets rule. Mexico's financial disaster has made many other fast-growing economies leery, and Mr. Rubin has said he wants to disseminate the lessons of those mistakes widely, so they are not repeated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENT BONDS PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEREGULATION (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E; TAKEMURA, MASAYOSHI (MIN) ROBERT E RUBIN (81%); MASAYOSHI TAKEMURA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



397 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: A Job Opening in Brooklyn: Poet Laureate

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

 BODY:
The Brooklyn poet laureate's study is unused now. There are an old memo pad, books and photographs in the tiny, lamplighted Brooklyn Heights den. A walking stick, polished but untouched, stands in a corner.
And there is a poem taped to the bulletin board. It opens: 
 I have no soil but this hard ground,
Stone and subterranean quarry,
Underground rails, dynamos, steel
Beneath the granite rising, I inhale.
Brooklyn's poet laureate position became vacant March 11. Norman Rosten, poet, playwright, novelist, memoirist, died at age 81. There has already been a musical tribute to Mr. Rosten beside the East River, and there will be a poetry reading and memorial service at Borough Hall in Brooklyn next month.
And then there will be the matter of his title -- poet laureate of Brooklyn -- as well as the question of a possible successor. It is a title at once grand and modest, comic and appropriate and perfect. It is also a title not many in Brooklyn are aware exists.
"Some of you may say, who needs one? And I say we do," Borough President Howard Golden said with a smile when he bestowed the title on Mr. Rosten in 1979. "Someone reminded me that Walt Whitman would have been a better choice. But we wanted a live poet, and Norman was available."
There is no shortage of potential successors, for Brooklyn is deep in poets, people writing in all sorts of languages and voices, dialects, idioms, and, yes, occasionally even couplets. The poets of Brooklyn read their work in a couple of cafes and a lot of classrooms. They appear on the public access cable channels, reading poems about cultural imperialism and about the I.R.T. They sing the body electric, and write about paying the Con Ed bill.
There is an 80-year-old Dutch biologist in Sheepshead Bay who writes poetry on the side and who has published a collection called "Breuckelyn." There is the recently retired "Poet of the D Train," who said he would come out of retirement to accept the poet laureate title. There is Louis Reyes Rivera, a 50-year-old Puerto Rican who maintains that Congress, in a ceremony several years ago, officially named him the poet laureate of Bed-Stuy.
There is Anthony Vitale, the 20-year-old Italian-American poet prodigy in Marine Park who has studied under Allen Ginsberg at Brooklyn College. There is Konstantin K. Kuzminsky, who was born in Leningrad, but who now roams Brighton Beach reciting poems in, he says, 24 languages. And there is Enid Dame, who lives in Brooklyn with her husband and fellow poet, Donald Lev, publishing all sorts of poetry in the Home Planet News, a local literary quarterly.
One of her works ends with the ominously poetic Brooklyn warning, "Anything you don't see will come back to haunt you."
Brooklyn's song of itself, then, keeps being sung.
"In Brooklyn, there is a sense of real culture," said Dennis Nurkse, a poet who lived in Manhattan, Latin America and Europe before arriving in Brooklyn in 1972. "It is the culture of lived lives."
The lives include those of Whitman and Hart Crane and Marianne Moore. Brooklyn was muse to all of them, and to Mr. Rosten. He wrote a book, "Under the Boardwalk," about growing up in Coney Island, and crafted scores of poems informed or infiltrated in one way or another by Brooklyn. Of Brooklyn, he wrote: "At its mere mention, I have seen people smile, groan, look suspicious, back away a step, embrace me, threaten me, pass a hand unsteadily across their faces, weep, stutter, or fall into a trance."
Mr. Golden, aware of Mr. Rosten's output even if he hadn't read all of his works, broached the idea of naming a Brooklyn poet laureate over coffee and bagels one morning 16 years ago.
"Norman was one of the last Brooklyn poets with a secure ability to get published," said Matthew Paris, a poet who has organized readings, workshops and benefits in Brooklyn for decades. "I think Howard Golden invented the idea of a poet laureate of Brooklyn in a moment of caprice. And, I should say, inspiration."
There are no formal duties to the job, certainly no great benefits. And as recounted by Mr. Rosten in a published essay, not much was negotiable when he became the first and only person ever to hold the spectacularly uncompensated position.
"Not even a part-time salary?" Mr. Rosten asked Mr. Golden over coffee that morning.
"It would create problems, believe me," Mr. Golden said.
"Would I have the use of an office, a secretary?" he asked.
"Maybe a work space; no secretary. It's a question of protocol."
"What about a parking space?"
"Absolutely not," Mr. Golden said. "I couldn't even get one for my daughter."
Mr. Golden has remained mostly quiet on the question of a successor to Mr. Rosten.
"The Borough President," said Greg Brooks, Mr. Golden's chief of staff, "is not really focusing on the future."
If and when the Borough President does turn to face the future and contemplate naming a second poet laureate of Brooklyn, the choice will be from a much-changed borough. The tides of immigration and economics have stocked Brooklyn with a different population pool of poets.
There are Arabs in Bay Ridge, a Chinatown in Sunset Park, a small continent of island natives from the Caribbean in Flatbush. Whether moved by political persecution in a foreign country or the loss of a rent-stabilized apartment in Manhattan, the new poets have arrived looking for a place to work, a place to be moved by.
They have bumped into and and mixed with other poets from other places, including those from the old Brooklyn, which might no longer be.
"A real, real Brooklyn person, a real, real Brooklyn poet -- I have no idea what or who that would be," said Leo Vroman, the retired biologist who was born in Holland and has lived in Sheepshead Bay for 40 years, publishing a series of poems about Plum Beach. "It's an interesting question, and I suppose one worth asking."
Answering the question by formal proclamation could be delicate for Mr. Golden, said Richard Bartee, a self-described "public poet" who was known in his heyday as the "Poet of the D Train."
"I call it ego-nomics, because whoever gets the title, potshots will be taken," Mr. Bartee said.
Donald Lev, though, thought he might have a solution.
"Maybe Howard will name himself," said Mr. Lev, a former cabdriver whom other Brooklyn poets have proposed as a candidate. "I don't know, these days, the poet laureate probably would have as much power as the Borough President does. Or doesn't."
More than a handful of Brooklyn poets doubt there will be a successor. But if such a prospect makes them momentarily mournful, it does not exactly break their hearts. Brooklyn has already broken them, and is busy mending them again, as well. The poets are absorbing and distilling everything: the juvenile violence and economic disillusionment, the AIDS and police brutality, the wonders of Prospect Park.
"Brooklyn brings out a provincial side of me that I don't mind confessing to," said Louis Reyes Rivera, who grew up in Bushwick surrounded by Italians, Hasidic Jews, Puerto Ricans and blacks. "But what Brooklyn affords its poets is the opportunity to influence tolerance. Poets, or cultural workers as I call them, can help others understand the beauty of difference."
To other poets, the enduring poetic appeal of Brooklyn is a plainly, powerfully physical phenomenon. Enid Dame talks of "cracked sidewalks and screaming people and flowers growing among them all."
Kimiko Hahn, the daughter of a mother from Maui and a father from Milwaukee, moved to Brooklyn nine months ago and has already written of its gardens and their plum tomatoes "glowing back at the dusk like three firm hearts."
"There is a particular kind of light in Brooklyn -- different, European," said Phyllis Capello, who was born in Bensonhurst and who now lives in Windsor Terrace and who has published a long poem called "Walking into the Dream." "And the ocean is in your vocabulary."
There appears no dictionary large enough to hold the full vocabulary employed by Brooklyn's poets.
Linda Cousins, a poet, edited an anthology called "Black and in Brooklyn," and she said it was loaded with verse about "poverty and race, passion and love." Mervyn Taylor, a Trinidadian, said his poetry and the conversations along Ocean Avenue "have got beyond the nostalgia that came with our self-imposed exile."
"If I stayed too long, it must be for something," said Mr. Taylor, a 53-year-old teacher.
For others, as it has been for ages, Brooklyn, whatever it is, is simply all they know. Anthony Vitale, not yet 21, lives in Marine Park and writes about what he calls "an urban suburbia."
"It would be pretty impossible to find one voice for Brooklyn," he said. "But conversation is what Brooklyn is about because Brooklyn English is different than any other. How people talk to each other in Brooklyn is unlike any other place."
Jamez Nobles, a 16-year-old from Crown Heights, listened to the voice in his head for years, and then began to put that inner monologue on paper. A student at Metropolitan Corporate Academy, he participated this year in a program called Poetry in the Schools.
"I always had poetry in the back of my mind, but it never came out," said Jamez, the oldest of four boys. "Now it is. It's mostly about desires, wants. Brooklyn is an interesting place. I go to Bay Ridge and it's like I'm down South. But I live on Utica Avenue, and Brooklyn can be hard. You see stuff. It's unavoidable. I'm writing it down now. People say it's good. I'm amazed."
Maybe Howard Golden could take a look.
"I hope it doesn't end with my father," Patricia Rosten said of the position of poet laureate. "As someone said when they first heard of the title, 'Oh, good, we in Brooklyn really are civilized.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony Vitale often works out poetry problems at the East 27th Street piers in Sheepshead Bay. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Kimiko Hahn, center, with her daughters Miyako, left, and Reiko Hannan; The poetry of Jamez Nobles began with a voice in the back of his mind. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 24)
 
Chart:
 
Untitles and Lost, Part II
 Brooklyn, It's no longer romantic and smart
 lurking in storefromt alleys.
 Your subway teeth crushed me
 uncer invention wheels and
 spit me out onto cold sidwalds
 darkened by broken lights.
 Dogs sniffeing around fire hydrants,
 rain water forcing soggy newspapers
 down stuffed drains.
 Astreetlamp's cranky fildering
 coaching my twisted shadow
 chasing me down the street ANTHONY VITALE
 Marine Park
 
The Driver Said
boerum hill?
it used to be
gowanus
this ain't no
neighborhood
if ya butcher
comes to ya funeral
that's a
neighborhood ?<>ROBERT HERSHON (pg 1)
 
The Sunflower
After thirty years maintenance in transit yards
he has a quadruple by-pass, vegetables
in the back, zenias and sunflowers in front
where he chats to neighbors
from an aluminum folding chair. As my daughter
roller blades passed him
he hands her a paper bag of plum tomatoes
that I'll line up on the sill
beside those glowing back at dusk
like three firm hearts. Who does he talk to
when he talks to himself among the corn stalks?
And who does he recall while he sets the table for one
under the circle of light the size of his plate?
I think to ask but accept the fruit and wave thanks.
The brick wall of our apartment leans against
his identical floor-through. One sunflower
is so tall he ties it to the fence for support. KIMIKO HAHN
 
A Letter to Our Black Nation
Maybe Slavery Wasn't So Bad
This is a letter stating why life is so sad.
Sons and daughters are walkin' around with no dad.
Pushers making money off customers 10 and 12 thinkin' they're bad.
To this list there is alot I could add.
Well maybe slavery wasn't so bad.
Love is sex and sex is AIDS.
Your pocket is picked at the labor day parade.
In Brooklyn you get robbed for a value pack.
And you think hmm, well he was probably black.
Where black is phat and white is rad maybe slavery wasn't so bad.
During slavery you knew your place.
The only problem was it mattered what race.
The way the truth was blinded by a potato sack.
The truth is told that my Christ is black.
I prayed for you and you did for me.
But the problem is that was during slavery.
 JAMES NOBLES
 
Excelsior Fashion Products, Easter
They pay us time and a half
and they don't dare catch us
drinking: we're discreet,
don't pass a bottle, but each sips
a private pint, all sitting
in the narrow room with our backs
to each other, each facing
his work -- router, stain tray,
buffing wheel, drill press --
and with that sweet taste echoing
in our bones, we watch our hands
make what they always made
-- rosewood handles -- but now
we smile in delighted surprise
and when Marchaesi brings our envelopes
they record a full day's work
though it's a still noon,
the processions are still in the streets,
the choirs, the loudspeakers
bellowing Hallelujah: and we change
into our finest clothes in the locker room,
admiring each other's hatbrims, passing bottles
freely until all are empty, and at last
we separate in the brilliant street, each
in the direction of a different tolling bell. DENNIS NURKSE
 
On the Ave.
It's one of those nights
when the intersection is crazy
with cars, the park pavilion
is a sea of crack vials,
and the lady downstairs keeps
calling the cops.
Should we go out from our
prisons or just stay away
from the window? Perhaps
we might intercede
in someone's loneliness. "Hi!"
At least the phone is working.
Someone is dialing
like mad in the booth on
the corner, biting the end
of a blue scarf and turning
her back to the world.
There's an ambulance
screaming up the avenue
for that guy spinning
in his wheelchair, the one
whom the paramedics
don gloves to handle.
There's a red moon to go
with his craziness and
a gun salute from a rooftop.
Can we be seen with the lights on,
ducking in the kitchen, are they
firing at the moon? MERVYN TAYLOR
 
Riding the D-Train
Notice the rooftops,
the worm-eaten Brooklyn buildings.
Houses crawl by,
each with its private legend.
In one, a mother
is punishing her child
slowly, with great enjoyment.
In one, a daughter
is writing a novel
she can't show to anyone.
Notice your fellow riders:
that Asian girl chewing a toothpick,
the boy drawing trees on his hand,
the man in a business suit
whose shoes don't match.
Everything is important:
that thin girl, for instance,
in flowered dress, golden high heels.
How did her eyes get scarred?
Why is that old man crying?
Why does that woman carry
a cat in her pocketbook?
Don't underestimate
any of it.
Anything you don't see
will come back to haunt you. ENID DAME
From Anything You Don't See
(West Eind, 1992) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POETRY AND POETS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS POETRY (97%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSTEN, NORMAN; GOLDEN, HOWARD (BORO PRES); VITALE, ANTHONY; HAHN, KIMIKO; NOBLES, JAMES; SEXTON, JOE NORMAN ROSTEN (76%); HOWARD GOLDEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



398 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: First Amendment Rights vs. Zoning Laws for Topless Bars

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER

 BODY:
IT has been two years since Goldie Solomon began her nightly vigil outside a topless bar here, and the 68-year-old retired nurse still carries a homemade sign with a message for the young women dancing inside and the male patrons who come to see them.
"No porno here," Ms. Solomon's placard reads. "Sex and liquor don't mix. Go home." 
 When the weather is good, Ms. Solomon -- a village gadfly who twice ran for mayor on the Common Sense Party line, "like Thomas Paine," she said -- is joined by other residents who also object to having a topless bar in their neighborhood. They maintain that the bar, the Diamond Club, does not belong in a small shopping center where an ice cream store, pet shop, chicken and ribs restaurant and Laundromat cater to family trade.
But their objections may have little to do with the legal rights of the Diamond Club or any other topless bar. Spokesmen for the American Civil Liberties Union and lawyers for the bar say they are digging in their heels for the fight that lies ahead -- against what they assert are restrictive zoning laws and other ordinances that deny people or businesses their First Amendment rights.
In a lawsuit in United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in White Plains, lawyers for the Diamond Club, also known as LaTrieste Restaurant and Cabaret, claim the village is selectively enforcing laws in a discriminatory fashion to eliminate topless dancing. They are also seeking $11 million in compensatory and other damages, which they say includes loss of business and violation of Constitutional rights.
"The fight we're fighting goes beyond topless dancing," said Gerald Padian, a lawyer for the Diamond Club. "If Port Chester were to succeed in its efforts against the nightclub, there would be nothing to stop it from doing the same thing to any other business in town or even an ethnic group it found undesirable."
"These are the kinds of actions that lead to book burning," said Mr. Padian of the Manhattan-based firm Tashjin & Padian.
The suit maintains that when the topless bar operated before 1993 as a restaurant and cabaret, the village ignored laws that required live entertainment to be offered only after 10 P.M. but later sought to implement the rules when topless dancing began. The suit alleges that the village began "a pattern of harassment," including summonses, arrests, fines and sudden enforcement of a variety of ordinances and regulations.
Port Chester, meanwhile, is seeking dismissal of the suit, denying in a document sent to Judge Charles L. Brieant of United States District Court in White Plains that it sought to enforce the the laws to drive out the bar's owners.
James L. Fischer, a lawyer for Port Chester, said personal values had nothing to do with the matter. "There's no discrimination involved," he said. "The only issue here is illegality. If the club began at 10, there would be no trouble."
Until the court case is settled, Mr. Padian said his clients would continue to feature topless dancing at the Diamond Club as early as lunchtime.
As for Ms. Solomon and the other picketers, they may continue to protest, although in February the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in White Plains enjoined them from doing so on private property.
The conflict is expected to have broad implications for municipal officials elsewhere in the county, many of whom are considering restrictive zoning to confine the activities of topless bars. At present there are only four or five topless bars in the county.
Owners of the bars are also watching the case closely. One proprietor said a victory for the Diamond Club could mean fewer restrictions in the future for his bar.
The American Civil Liberties Union, too, is monitoring Port Chester's conflict, and Norman Siegel, a spokesman for the New York Civil Liberties Union, based in Manhattan, said his organization would consider joining the plaintiffs in the suit.
In Westchester, Robert David Goodstein, legal director of the county's chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, said that topless bars were "legal and legitimate types of businesses."
He added, "These places are allowed to exist, and you can't use zoning or other means to censor them."
He also said that the State Liquor Authority permits topless dancing in bars where alcoholic beverages are served, and that in establishments where no alcohol is served, nudity is allowed.
In North Tarrytown, Mayor Sean Treacy said that although his village had not outlawed topless bars, it "had made it impossible for them to open within 500 feet of a residential neighborhood, churches, social clubs and schools, and that's a very large area." The restrictive zoning was also intended to prevent existing bars from becoming topless, he added.
Villagers feared that a topless bar would bring with it prostitution and other crimes, Mayor Treacy said.
In Yonkers, Mayor Terence Zaleski reported that his city had imposed a six-month moratorium on establishing adult-entertainment businesses pending enactment of laws to regulate them.
According to a city ordinance, adult-entertainment uses include bookstores, video stores, theaters, peep shows, massage parlors and public or private establishments providing dancers, strippers or other forms of entertainment that involve sexual activities.
A topless bar in Yonkers known as the Body Shop was closed last winter after the New York State Liquor Authority revoked the bar's liquor license for violation of exposure rules, lewd and indecent conduct and sale of drinks during prohibited hours. Another establishment, the Fantasy Club, closed after the city prevailed on the building's landlord to end the bar's lease, Mr. Zaleski said. A third topless bar, City Lights, has been in business nearly 10 years.
The Mayor said topless bars and other forms of adult entertainment "have a deleterious effect on the quality of life and are not conducive to economic development, because many times their activities are not behind closed doors."
In the case of the Body Shop, he said, "undesirables spilled out on to the sidewalk."
The city now bans topless dancing within 500 feet of a residential area. Legislation before the City Council would broaden the definition of adult entertainment and ban the operation of such businesses within 500 feet of a school, place of worship, day-care center or playground.
Mr. Goodstein at the Westchester chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union said, "Zoning can only be done for zoning purposes, not as a subterfuge for a ban."
At New York Civil Liberties Union headquarters in Manhattan, Mr. Siegel, the executive director, said:
"We recognize that many people are offended by these kinds of businesses, but if we allow governments to serve as the arbiters of good taste, we might as well abolish the First Amendment. The fact that a topless bar is not popular is not reason enough to close it down."
He said the effort to shut down or severely restrict topless bars was a matter of "certain people trying to impose their morality on everyone else, and that's un-American." Mr. Siegel, a lawyer, predicted that many more suits would be fought in coming months to protect "major First Amendment challenges."
In New York City, the City Council is considering two bills, one aimed at video stores and bookstores and the other involving topless bars and nude clubs. The bills would prohibit such businesses from opening within 500 feet of a residential zone, a house of worship or a school or within 500 feet of a similar business.
Mr. Siegel said that a coalition of business owners and citizens was planning to challenge the 500-foot law if it goes into effect. Like the suit in Port Chester, the New York City conflict could become another "very important test case," he said.
Mr. Siegel and Mr. Goodstein observed that the crime rate does not necessarily increase near topless bars and other adult-entertainment enterprises, a fact borne out in interviews with several police departments.
In New Rochelle, Lieut. Dominic C. Locatelli said there had been "no problems" with Billy Budd's Pub, a topless bar in that city. In Mount Vernon, Chief Michael J. Craparo reported "only sporadic incidents of under-age drinking and disorderly conduct" at Sue's Rendezvous.
One proprietor of a topless club said he had hired extra staff members to maintain law and order.
"As a topless bar, we're being watched more because people don't like us," said Robert S., a co-owner, who agreed to be interviewed only on the condition that his last name not be used. "Publicity in the past only awakened people to something they're not in favor of."
He said his business had experienced resistance from religious leaders and local officials when it first opened but that there has been "very little crime here, probably less than the local gin mill or rock bar."
"We try and mind our own business and give the customers what they want within the legal limits of the law," he said.
One of the club's dancers, Skye Ajuirre, said she and the other performers also work "strictly by the books."
"No offers, no trips, no extra money," she said.
Ms. Ajuirre, who is 28, works as a secretary by day and a topless dancer two or three nights a week. The club pays her $8 an hour to perform, but "on a good night," she said, she earns another $300 in tips.
Under state law, topless dancers must perform at least six feet from patrons and on a stage that is at least 18 inches off the ground. Typically, the stage is inside a circular bar.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Skye Ajuirre, daytime secretary and part-time topless dancer, says she can earn $300 a night in tips. (Pg. 1); Protesters passing around cocoa outside the Diamond Club, a topless bar in Port Chester. (Pg. 15) (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DIAMOND CLUB (PORT CHESTER, NY, BAR); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIAMOND CLUB (PORT CHESTER, NY, BAR); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORT CHESTER (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; DISCRIMINATION; ZONING ZONING (91%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LAWYERS (87%); LITIGATION (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); OBSCENITY (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); MAYORS (70%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (68%); RETAILERS (68%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (68%); ICE CREAM (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); ETHNICITY (61%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



399 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Straight Talk

BYLINE: By Carol Tavris; Carol Tavris, a social psychologist, is the author of "The Mismeasure of Woman."

 BODY:

THE INVENTION OF HETEROSEXUALITY
By Jonathan Ned Katz.
Foreword by Gore Vidal.
291 pp. New York: Dutton. $22.95. 
IF you are heterosexual, you will probably be inspired to make a joke or two about "The Invention of Heterosexuality" ("Well, it's about time someone invented it," you'll want to say, or "So that's what I've been doing all my life"). Go ahead; Jonathan Ned Katz won't mind. He's got a swell sense of humor, and he appreciates the irony that a gay historian -- his previous book was "Gay American History" -- would be tackling the history of heterosexuality.
Heterosexuality, according to Mr. Katz, was invented in the 1860's in Germany. He is not, of course, talking about the invention of sexual feelings or acts between women and men, which presumably occurred a few times before 1860. He is talking about the invention of the categories "heterosexual" and "homosexual": the idea that sexual behaviors clump into two "opposite" types. Mr. Katz shows how heterosexuality, as an idea and as an ideal, has changed over time, signifying "one particular historical arrangement of the sexes and their pleasures."
"Heterosexuality," he says, made its American debut in a medical journal in 1892, where it referred not to desire for the other sex, but to desire for both sexes. It was considered a perversion, one of several "abnormal manifestations of the sexual appetite." The association of heterosexuality with perversion continued for several decades; as late as 1923, Merriam-Webster's called it a "morbid sexual passion for one of the opposite sex." But by 1934 it had become a "manifestation of sexual passion for one of the opposite sex; normal sexuality." (Note the term "opposite sex," itself a relatively new way of regarding men and women.)
Mr. Katz traces the evolution of heterosexuality from its origins as a perverted desire to its present incarnation as normal sexuality. As the medical establishment claimed hegemony over sexual matters at the end of the 19th century -- influenced by Krafft-Ebing and Freud -- it transformed the discussion about sex from what was "natural" and "moral" to what was "normal" and "healthy." (At first this seemed like progress.) That done, physicians and psychiatrists sought to explain, and cure, those who were "abnormal" and "unhealthy." In the first decades of the 20th century, Mr. Katz shows in a chapter called "The Heterosexual Comes Out," the mass media seized on and validated the concept of "the" heterosexual.
Scholars who study the origins of sexual orientation, like those who study the differences between men and women, generally fall into two kinds: those who think there are two kinds of people in the world, and those who don't. Are men and women opposite sexes? Are homosexuality and heterosexuality opposite orientations? The essentialist school holds that there is something fundamental, unchanging and biologically wired in women and men, gay people and straight people, that causes their differences. The constructionist school holds that differences are largely due to economics, power inequities and cultural forces, and that theories of difference have powerful social consequences. To illustrate this argument, constructionists like Mr. Katz have begun to examine the categories we consider normal instead of forever focusing on those who are different (women, blacks, Jews and so forth). "By making the sex-normal the object of historical study," Mr. Katz observes, "we upset basic preconceptions." And so he does.
For readers unversed in social constructionism, this lively and provocative book will be a good introduction, especially to the ideas of Michel Foucault, whose monumental "History of Sexuality" challenged essentialist assumptions about sex. Unfortunately, Foucault also gave academics a new language -- excuse me, medium of discourse. From time to time Mr. Katz's prose runs aground in befogged Foucaultian swamps: "Heterosexuality, I now think, is invented in discourse as that which is outside discourse. It's manufactured in a particular discourse as that which is universal."
In spite of these lapses and various arguments that readers may disagree with, Mr. Katz's overall message is important. It is not accidental that theories of difference flourish precisely when the differences in question are fading. Just when studies find that men and women are far more alike than different in abilities, nurturance, nastiness, wisdom and foolishness, we get theories and television shows about how different our brains, psyches and archetypes are. If the "gender gap" is narrowing, Mr. Katz argues, so is the "sexual orientation gap": even as the media emphasize biological differences between homosexuals and heterosexuals, the evidence shows a convergence in life styles, sexual practices, consumer values, diverse family arrangements and endorsement of an ethic of sexual pleasure.
THIS convergence, of course, is precisely what is causing such apoplectic spasms from the right wing, which is determined to reinforce the "naturalness" and "superiority" not only of heterosexuality but also of masculinity. And that is Mr. Katz's point: the terms "heterosexuality" and "homosexuality" do not simply describe variations in sexual behavior, but suggest that one way is right, healthy and superior. "If homosexuals were to win society-wide equality with heterosexuals, there'd be no reason to distinguish them," Mr. Katz concludes. "The homosexual/heterosexual distinction would be retired from use, just as it was once invented."
Perhaps not. People in every culture and era have noticed variations in sexual orientation, whether they had labels for them or not. Moreover, such variations are pretty interesting, and I see no need to retire useful terms that describe them. Nor do I think it is necessary to perpetuate the dichotomy between biological contributions to behavior and social and cultural ones, as long as we heed the social constructionists' warnings against biological reductionism.
What we can and must dispense with are the value judgments that difference means deficiency and that numbers confer health or superiority. Left-handed people were once stigmatized, seen as abnormal and subjected to all manner of supposed cures by right-handers convinced of their natural superiority. Today we regard left-handedness as a normal variation; it's no big deal. No reason we can't one day have the same attitude toward the extraordinary variation in human homosexualities -- and heterosexualities. Jonathan Katz's book will help us get there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INVENTION OF HETEROSEXUALITY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (76%); 

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (76%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); 

PERSON: TAVRIS, CAROL; KATZ, JONATHAN NED EUGENE LUTHER 'GORE' VIDAL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995



400 of 737 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Foreigners

BYLINE: By Nicholas Lemann; Nicholas Lemann is a national correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly and the author of "The Promised Land: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America."

 BODY:

ALIEN NATION
Common Sense About
America's Immigration Disaster.
By Peter Brimelow.
327 pp. New York:
Random House. $24. 
IMMIGRATION is one of those issues that split American conservatism in two. In the libertarian wing of the conservative mansion can be found the only people anywhere in our political debate who favor completely open borders -- like Robert L. Bartley, the editor of The Wall Street Journal, and the economist Julian L. Simon. But the most intense opposition to immigration is also located in the conservative movement, over in the cultural and populist areas, whence came much of the impetus for California's Proposition 187, denying most government services to illegal immigrants. Although there is an anti-immigration tradition within liberalism too, in the main liberals seem to have settled into a sentimental, optimistic, celebratory view of immigrants.
It is this view that Peter Brimelow aims to pick mercilessly apart in "Alien Nation," which is an expanded version of a 1992 cover story in National Review and a book-length articulation of an anti-immigration position that has been bubbling up in more obscure places for several years. Mr. Brimelow, a senior editor of Forbes and National Review, treats his fellow conservatives who support immigration, especially Mr. Simon, as admirable but sadly mistaken -- while he goes after the liberals with scornful glee.
One by one he sets up the liberal arguments and knocks 'em down. The United States was not originally conceived of as a nation of immigrants, or even as multiethnic: Mr. Brimelow reminds us that the Declaration of Independence contains a rarely quoted attack on "the merciless Indian Savages." Rather than having been continuous, large-scale immigration to the United States has come in concentrated bursts, which have been followed by long, relatively immigration-free adjustment periods. Rather than being fundamentally multiethnic, the United States was, as late as 1960, just short of being 90 percent white (though how Hispanic Americans were counted at that time seems to be ambiguous).
Today, immigration is at one of its historic highs: counting illegals, well over two million people a year come to the United States, and, compared with past immigrants, far fewer of them ever leave. Immigration accounts for 37 percent of our population growth. Instead of generating economic growth and tax revenues, immigrants, Mr. Brimelow says, are a net drain on the country, crowding public schools, welfare rolls, jails and hospitals. And by their mere presence they exacerbate ethnic tension.
Mr. Brimelow describes this situation in the direst language imaginable: "There is no precedent for a sovereign country undergoing such a rapid and radical transformation of its ethnic character in the entire history of the world," he writes. Possibly the result will be "the snuffing out of the American nation -- like a candle in a gale." If that doesn't happen, at the very least, during the next century "American patriots will be fighting to salvage as much as possible from the shipwreck of their great republic."
Buried within the apocalyptic rhetoric is a much more specific complaint, namely, that the 1965 immigration law (the Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments) led to a much higher level of immigration than its authors anticipated and needs to be corrected. In an uncharacteristically calm passage, Mr. Brimelow suggests that legal immigration be cut by about two-thirds.
Passed at the height of the civil rights era, the 1965 law was meant to undo the Quota Act of 1921 and the Immigration Act of 1924, which severely restricted immigration and also gave most of the slots to people from northern and western Europe. Much of contemporary conservatism revolves around the idea that some time in the 1960's the country took a disastrous wrong turn. Mr. Brimelow believes that the wrong turn was specifically the 1965 law, which he blames for ills ranging from the long-term slowdown of the economy to the creation of the urban underclass.
One could hold the position that the nondiscriminatory spirit of the 1965 law was laudable, but that its emphasis on admitting immigrants on the principle of family reunification as well as skills was misguided, and that the sheer number of people coming in now has moved beyond our capacity for absorption. Mr. Brimelow, however, takes an extra step. He wants to keep the immigration flow not just limited, and not just higher-skilled, but also mostly white. A waiting room of the Immigration and Naturalization Service reminds him of the New York subway: he finds each to be "an underworld that is not just teeming but also is almost entirely colored."
Most industrial nations are essentially monoethnic states that allow hardly any immigration at all. Mr. Brimelow admits that the United States has been more successfully multiethnic than any other country, but at bottom he just doesn't believe in the "American idea" that people here can transcend ethnicity through allegiance to abstract national principles like democracy and opportunity. What is required for the successful functioning of a nation, he insists, is "a link by blood."
Even "model minorities" that aren't white arouse Mr. Brimelow's suspicions. Reports of the success of Asian-Americans may be "just another immigration myth." Recently arrived Cubans "in fact participate heavily in welfare." West Indians? "It must be said that nowadays part of their enterprise goes into drug 'posses' and car-theft rings." Judging from a couple of asides, Mr. Brimelow doesn't consider Jews to meet his definition of "white" either; for example, he refers to the Clinton Administration as "a black-Hispanic-Jewish-minority white (Southerners used to call them 'scalawags') coalition." Elsewhere he points out that Jews played a major role in the passage of the hated 1965 immigration law. On the other hand, he calls it "a profound tragedy" that we don't relax our immigration restrictions to let in hundreds of thousands of eastern Europeans.
Mr. Brimelow is more an energetic pamphleteer than a reporter. He has done a good job of assembling printed material but, aside from one nocturnal visit to the Border Patrol station south of San Diego, he has not gone out in search of firsthand, irrefutable evidence that immigration actually is eating away at the very core of the country in the way he says it is. At one point he brings up a few pro-immigration arguments and then concludes, disarmingly, "I'm sure I'm right." The reason he's so sure is that it seems impossible to him that any society can remain strong for very long while allowing in large numbers of immigrants from a wide variety of ethnic groups.
When Mr. Brimelow tries to provide tangible details (as opposed to statistics) about the deteriorating fabric of life here caused by immigration, they often have an exaggerated or unproved feeling. He takes it as a given that immigrants no longer want to assimilate. In the near future, he says, Atlanta, Miami and San Antonio "will be communities as different from one another as any in the civilized world." Bilingual education is to him so obviously a program to keep people from learning English that he doesn't even bother to bring up and knock down the official rationale for it, which is that it encourages non-English speakers to stay in school while they learn the language. He views the creation of a secessionist Mexican-American state called Aztlan, a favorite cause of Southwestern student radicals in the 1960's, as a live possibility. Mr. Brimelow is right when he says that there is more risk from too much immigration than from too little, but he doesn't establish that the current situation justifies his level of alarm -- and the reason is that he finds the simple fact of substantial nonwhite immigration to be sufficiently alarming.
Several times in "Alien Nation" Mr. Brimelow mentions as one of the dangers of immigration that a significant percentage of immigrants will feel alienated from America -- the implication being that we ought not to let in too many people who are going to run down the country. This from a man who is himself an immigrant, from England, and who accuses "the American political elite" of "a species of treason"!
Mr. Brimelow's definition of "alienated" is political (it applies to complaints from the left but not the right) and his definition of "America" is racial. The amazing absence of euphemism and disingenuousness in his book helps make it clear why the immigration issue is so difficult: there is often a lot more in the opposition to immigration than straightforward policy-wonk concerns about whether we are letting in the right number of people.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ALIEN NATION (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS IMMIGRATION (95%); CONSERVATISM (92%); LIBERALISM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); LITERATURE (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: LEMANN, NICHOLAS; BRIMELOW, PETER PETER BRIMELOW (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

 
