

201 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2249 words

HEADLINE: The Pornography Industry vs. Digital Pirates 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
THOUSANDS of Web sites are putting Playboy magazine's pictures on the Internet -- free. And Randy Nicolau, the president of Playboy.com, is loving it. "It's direct marketing at its finest," he said.
 Let the music industry sue those who share files, and let Hollywood push for tough laws and regulations to curb movie copying. Playboy, like many companies that provide access to virtual flesh and naughtiness, is turning online freeloaders into subscribers by giving away pictures to other sites that, in turn, drive visitors right back to Playboy.com. 
 When Mr. Nicolau is asked whether he thinks that the entertainment industry is making a mistake by taking a different approach, he replies: "I haven't spent much time thinking about it. It's like asking Henry Ford, 'What were the buggy-whip guys doing wrong?"' 
The copyright rumble is playing out a little differently in the red-light districts of cyberspace. That neighborhood is increasingly difficult to confine, what with a fetishwear-clad Janet Jackson flashing a Super Bowl audience of millions, and Paris Hilton making her own version of a "Girls Gone Wild" video. Professional peddlers say they are hard pressed to compete. 
Still, the business of being bad is very good, especially for the biggest players. Though the industry has felt a financial squeeze during the economic slowdown, it nonetheless has sales of as much as $2 billion each year, said Tom Hymes, the editor of AVNOnline, a business magazine for the industry. 
And the pornography industry, which has always been among the first to exploit new technologies, including the VCR, the World Wide Web and online payment systems, is finding novel ways to deal with the threat of online piracy as well. The mainstream entertainment industry, some experts say, would do well to pay attention. 
Music executives say their campaign of lawsuits has been successful. They say they have spread the word that downloading free music infringes on copyrights and that there could be consequences for large-scale file sharers. 
But the pornography industry has been dealing with Internet copyright issues since the 1980's. By comparison, the movie and music businesses are relative newcomers. Mr. Hymes said companies in his industry had come to realize that suing consumers and promoting "draconian laws" were not the answer. "No law written can stem the tide," he said. And so, he said, companies are seeking ways to live with the technologies that threaten them and are trying to turn them to their advantage. 
That is not to say that the companies have not been harmed by free copying and distribution of copyrighted material online. Mr. Hymes's magazine warned recently that such companies were "losing incalculable amounts of cash" to peer-to-peer file-sharing networks like Kazaa, LimeWire, Grokster and Bit Torrent. 
"As the networks continue to grow and even more sophisticated programs are created, the P2P networks might prove a bigger threat to the revenue stream of the porn world than all the censorious right-wingers in the country put together," the article stated.
Maybe. But many companies that distribute X-rated material say they do not worry too much about consumers sharing among themselves; they often unleash their lawyers only when someone is trying to profit by copying their goods and trying to sell them. 
When people in the industry talk of copyright, there is none of the grand speechifying about revering artists and rewarding creativity, and the near-tearful paeans to the yeoman key grips and stunt men, as is favored by movie and record executives. Instead, there is just this: We spent a lot of money to get this stuff out to the market. Somebody else is making money off of it. We want the money. 
"We haven't gone after Joe Citizen who's sharing something he printed off something from the Hustler Web site with another guy," said Paul Cambria, a lawyer who represents Hustler, Vivid Video and other companies on copyright issues. He does send out some 20 letters a week, he said, warning for-pay Web sites to remove material owned by his clients. 
Mr. Cambria suggests that the mainstream entertainment industry is much more combative when it comes to consumers partly because the songs and movies are so carefully and expensively made and distributed. Movies in his industry, by contrast, are often made in a few weeks, and on budgets that a major studio may spend on coffee and pastries, so piracy is not taken quite as seriously. "Maybe a classic is one thing," he said, "but they're not all classics."
A few merchants in the industry who have tried the kind of aggressive methods used by mainstream entertainment companies say they have not received much in return for their efforts. One company that tried to track down copyright infringers and demand that Internet service providers shut down their sites used BayTSP, an Internet monitoring service that also serves the music and movie industries. "It was costing us a lot of money and was producing absolutely zero results," said Humphry Knipe, who manages the business operations of Suze Randall, a photographer in the field who has her own Web site.
Mr. Knipe, who is married to Ms. Randall, said many Web sites were taken down as a result of more specific legal threats by subpoena to Internet service providers. But even then, "it was extremely doubtful that any of this activity had any effect at all in the real world of improving our sales by restricting piracy," he said. 
MARK ISHIKAWA, the chief executive of BayTSP, disputes that. He said his company worked for Mr. Knipe almost four years ago, before the threat of lawsuits became common enough to present a real danger to downloaders. "He would have a much different effect today," he said of Mr. Knipe. 
In general, Mr. Ishikawa said, pornography businesses have not been a good market for his services, which can cost from $10,000 to $50,000 a month, depending on the volume of work. "Nobody wanted to spend the money," he said. It was just as well, he said: "We don't want to be known in the porn space."
Many of the businesses, however, are trying various techniques to make paying customers out of people who take their content. Titan Media, a provider of gay pornography, says it tracks down people who violate its copyright and, as an alternative to a lawsuit, offers amnesty if the infringer becomes a subscriber. Identities are not easy to find in the virtual world, and the company must track the infringement through Internet service providers, who are often reluctant to reveal the names of their customers. 
So Titan does what many copyright holders do: it sends infringement notices to the service providers, asking them either to remove the offending material or to pass along the notice to the customer. Titan initially tried to unmask infringers by using the same controversial provisions of copyright law used by the music industry to track down file sharers: a streamlined system of subpoenas that do not require a judge's approval. Titan backed away from the tactic when it prompted privacy protests; a federal court has since ruled that the music industry cannot use those subpoenas against peer-to-peer file traders. 
Wendy Seltzer, an advocate for online civil liberties, says the Titan approach may point the way for other industries to enforce their copyrights. Ms. Seltzer, a staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a high-tech policy group that has fought the record industry over copyright issues, acknowledged that the amnesty offer "sounds a little extortionate when they say it, perhaps." But she said it was "a much more sensible approach" than the music industry's litigation strategy. "People always want this stuff," she said, referring to pornography. "Seeing some of it just whets their appetite for more. Once they get through what's available for free, they'll move into the paid services." 
Gill Sperlein, general counsel for Titan, said his company must be tough in combating file-sharing networks because of the nature of the content. "When we're trying to maintain control of our product, it's not just to protect our financial interest but also our moral obligation to keep it out of the hands of minors," he said. Once an image or movie has been taken from his site, the company's elaborate precautions to ensure that minors cannot gain access to the material through the site are defeated. "We are very careful about who we sell our products to," he said.
Companies are finding that free images can be a selling point, and not just a problem. Playboy pays Webmasters $25 or more for every subscription they funnel to Playboy.com and provides sales and marketing tools to help make the free Web sites more effective. Mr. Nicolau of Playboy.com said that the subscription business grew 74 percent in 2002 and that the company's revenue growth in 2003 was expected to be as much as 60 percent.
Mr. Hymes of AVNOnline said that the salvation for the industry would come not from laws or lawsuits as much as from bits and bytes. "Technology is going to solve the problem that technology has created," he said. "The people in this space are seeing it as an opportunity to change habits and to create new opportunities."
Mr. Sperlein said Titan Media had experimented with software that would require people who download a video clip to return to the Titan site to unlock it and view it, but that this process was too intrusive. So, he said, the company is coming to realize that "the key is to make a product available that's reasonably priced and reasonably easy to obtain."
"We're kind of at the beginning stages of that," he added. 
Others in the industry are using bare-knuckled legal tactics, but they are suing other companies, not individuals. An emerging industry of lawyers and self-appointed Internet monitors is feeding off provisions in copyright law that allow automatic damages when infringement is proved in court. Groups like the Association for the Protection of Internet Copyright, which works mainly for pornography-related businesses, scour the Internet for signs of copyright infringement that they can present to the original owners of the material. They then collect a bounty from a portion of the settlement or statutory penalties, which can reach as much as $150,000 an infringement.
Some people who have been approached by APIC say tactics of the organization's founder, Steve Easton, go out of bounds. According to papers filed by an Internet service provider in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California last fall, Mr. Easton sent copyright notices with links to pornographic sites to the company and business associates "to burden, harass and embarrass" the service provider. 
Mr. Easton said that he was the one being victimized by the lawsuit, but conceded that his tactics had made him vulnerable. "I've said things to people that I probably should not have bothered," he said, "instead of sending notices and keeping to the straight and narrow." 
A pornography merchant, Norman Zada, has sued Web sites that use pictures from his site, Perfect 10, and has also sued the companies that process payments for those sites. (Those suits are still working their way through the courts.) Last month, he took his campaign a step further and sued MasterCard and Visa, which he said contribute to online piracy by processing bills for Web sites that post pornography that rightfully belongs to his site and magazine.
Mr. Zada argues that piracy has cost him some $29 million. "If you create a product and everybody else can sell your product" without paying for it, he said, "you can't survive."
Neither credit card company would comment for attribution, but a lawyer from one of the companies scoffed at the suit, saying that it had no legal basis and that the company was too far removed from copyright infringement to have any liability.
Mr. Zada said his lawsuits were legitimate. "They're all accusing me of extortion and they're accusing me of using litigation as a profit center -- I'm out $29 million!" he said. "This is not a profit center." He said he believed, however, that he could make back that sum and more if he could only have the courts give him total control over images he owns. 
He has the right to make his case in court, he said: "This wonderful country gives you the opportunity to right the playing field." Companies like his, he said, must litigate aggressively because they do not get the kind of support from law enforcement that the music and movie industries receive.
TOUGH industry tactics should come as no surprise, said Charles Carreon, the lawyer suing Mr. Easton. Pornography, after all, is a business with a history. "Everybody forgets that somebody shot Larry Flynt," he said.
Pornography merchants say that they have the advantage over free file-sharing networks, at least for now. They say the networks are not well suited to the needs of their consumers, who like images and movies that push their very specific buttons for, say, blondes or cheerleaders. 
"Free is very anarchistic and hard to deal with, and you don't know what you're getting," said a pornography entrepreneur who goes by the online pseudonym T. Lassiter Jones. "Cheap is more convenient." 
That notion could be the great hope of the mainstream entertainment industry, where fledgling services like the iTunes store and Rhapsody that offer inexpensive, easy access to legal music are beginning to catch on.
So, yes, sex sells, but so can music.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 8 contrasting the approaches to copyright issues in the entertainment industry and the pornography industry misstated the fee structure of the Association for the Protection of Internet Copyright, a service that hunts for violations online. Its members pay a flat fee; the service does not receive a part of each settlement.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The photographer Suze Randall in her Los Angeles studio with a model. Operators of Web sites like hers don't always fight digital piracy the same way the music industry does. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Randy Nicolau, the president of Playboy.com, sees file sharing as a form of direct marketing because it ends up bringing more people to his site. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COPYRIGHT (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (89%); FILM (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (73%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); LITIGATION (72%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (71%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Pornography and Obscenity; Copyrights; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%) John Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



202 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Critics Say Forest Service Battles Too Many Fires 

BYLINE:  By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: MISSOULA, Mont. 

 BODY:
As the wildfire burned furiously toward two firefighters clearing trees in the mountains near Cramer Creek, Idaho, they repeatedly called over their radio for a helicopter to get them off the rocky slope. 
 "Oh God, we've got fire down below us," one firefighter, Jeff Allen, told the dispatcher. "Just make them hurry up." 
 But the helicopters were refueling and by the time they arrived, the smoke was too thick to land, sealing the fate of Mr. Allen, 24, and Shane Heath, 22. 
In January, an investigation by the United States Forest Service concluded that the incident commander for the fire last summer had violated all 10 standard orders to ensure firefighter safety, including posting lookouts and identifying escape routes, a breakdown that led to the deaths of the two firefighters.
But the real problem, said Andy Stahl, executive director of Forest Service Employees for Environmental Ethics, was not addressed in the investigation: the Forest Service fights too many fires. 
"Why did they choose to fight that fire in the first place?" he asked. "It was in the middle of a roadless area next to a wilderness area. There were no homes or communities that stood to be harmed. Fire was the best thing that could have happened to the ecology."
Mr. Stahl and other critics of the service say fire is as important as rain in maintaining the health of forests. They say the agency should allow many more fires to burn in unpopulated areas to clear downed timber and underbrush, thus restoring forests to their natural condition.
Despite a growing body of research that recognizes the vital ecological role that fires play in the West, critics say the government is continuing its aggressive war against wilderness blazes. It is a campaign fought on two fronts: from above, with World War II-era bombers that dump tons of chemical fire retardant, and from below, with firefighters dropped in by plane, driven in by trucks or marched in overland. 
But fundamental questions are being raised about how much of this war is necessary, and whether the rising costs of the battle against fire -- in dollars, environmental damage and the lives of firefighters -- are worth it.
"For the Forest Service, fighting fires is instinctual, not rational," Mr. Stahl said. 
Only 110 out of more than 10,000 wildfires were allowed to burn naturally in national forests last year, according to the National Interagency Fire Center.
Last fall the Forest Service employees' group, whose directors are mostly current and former Forest Service workers, filed a lawsuit here seeking to require the agency to conduct its first official review of its firefighting strategy. The 12,000-member organization seeks to pressure the Forest Service to address environmental and other issues related to national forests.
The suit, still in its early stages, calls for a study to address the environmental effects of dropping fire retardant, which can result in the spread of noxious weeds and kill fish in streams. It would also require the agency to look at questions like whether more fires should be allowed to burn and the impact of firefighting on health and safety. 
"Two years ago, my son Devin died while fighting the Thirty Mile Fire," said Ken Weaver, a member of the employees group, referring to a blaze in north-central Washington in 2002. "His death was needless. That fire threatened nothing, and certainly nothing worth the lives of the four firefighters who perished."
The fire occurred in an area where the agency's rules say fires were to be allowed to burn.
In its legal response to the suit, the service said it could not study the environmental effects of firefighting because it could not predict where and when wildfires would occur. 
Jerry Williams, national director of fire and aviation for the Forest Service in Washington, D.C., said firefighter safety had always been foremost in the agency's mind. "It's a question we're struggling with now," Mr. Williams said.
While the service fought wildfires on 1.4 million acres last year, he said, 300,000 acres of wilderness were allowed to burn naturally. In addition, he said, prescribed fires, those set deliberately to burn brush and dead wood, were set on another 1.2 million acres. Critics say that figure is far too small, and Mr. Williams agrees, saying: "The real question is, Are we using enough fire? We're not, and we need to use more."
At the same time, he said, a growing number of homes are being built on private land near national forests, which makes it difficult to enforce the agency's fire-burning policy. 
"At critical fire-danger levels there is no telling where those fires will end up" if they are allowed to burn, he said. "We've had fires where we've made a decision to let it go, and one, two or three weeks later they're headed for a town."
He cited the fires that swept through Yellowstone National Park in 1988 as an example, noting that officials let them burn early on but watched them grow to threaten towns in and near the park.
Firefighting is a summer job for thousands of young men and women. But it is also dangerous. In 2003, 29 firefighters were killed fighting wildfires, most in vehicle or aircraft crashes, and many more were injured.
"I'd like to see them quit fighting fires everywhere" except near homes, Mr. Weaver said, "and return the rest of the woods to Mother Nature." The Forest Service's own research shows that clearing flammable materials near inhabited areas is the best way to protect them from wildfires.
There is also growing concern about the cost of fighting fires. The Forest Service spent $1.4 billion in 2002 battling seven million acres of wildfires; in 1996, when six million acres burned, the cost was $522 million. 
A major reason for that increase, Mr. Williams said, is the rise in development in remote areas, which requires more firefighters and equipment to battle blazes.
Critics counter by saying the rising costs have more to do with bureaucracy than sprawl.
Firefighting has become the main mission of the Forest Service. Timber cutting, once its primary purpose, has declined by 80 percent in the last decade. After devastating fire seasons, the agency's budget has grown to more than $4 billion, from $2.8 billion in 1996, largely to cover firefighting costs. Firefighting has also become a big business, with more than 125 companies vying for lucrative government contracts.
Randal O'Toole, an economist with the libertarian Thoreau Institute in Bandon, Ore., who has studied the Forest Service for years, says the agency often ignores scientific studies that show how important fire is to forest ecosystems. "It's more risky to someone's career to let it burn," Mr. O'Toole said. "So they put it out, even if it's the wrong thing to do ecologically."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Forest Service allowed this fire to burn in Yellowstone National Park in 1988, but it grew unexpectedly into a threat to towns. (Photo by NationalPark Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FOREST FIRES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); FIRES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ETHICS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HELICOPTERS (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WORLD WAR II (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%) Fires and Firefighters; Forest and Brush Fires; Suits and Litigation; Fires and Firefighters

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (94%) Forest Service (US); Forest Service Employees For Environmental Ethics

PERSON: Jim Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



203 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE ECONOMY; 
Unemployed Iraqis Say New Jobs Will Pay Off in Greater Security for All

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE and JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Even on a Friday morning, when most businesses are shut and most people are preparing for weekly prayer services, men looking for jobs paced the sidewalk of Tayeran Square in the center of Baghdad, at an intersection packed with the buses that ferried them in from outlying slums.
 Leaning on their sledgehammers and shovels, hoping against the odds that somebody visiting the hardware stores in nearby alleyways would offer a day's work for a few dollars, they talked about the twin problems that still weigh heavily on Iraq 10 months after the fall of Saddam Hussein: unemployment and insecurity. 
 "I haven't been working at all for the last two weeks," complained Hassan Kadhim, 27, who lives in Sadr City, the big Shiite ghetto on the city's outskirts. "If I stay like this for another week my family will starve, and if someone comes with $50 and asks me to toss a grenade at the Americans, I'll do it with pleasure."
Others, like Mustafa al-Basri, 33, a sewage worker who came from the southern city of Basra to look for work, spoke in more measured tones. 
"The terrorists and the bombers will not stop if you provide jobs," he said. "Those people are working hard to destabilize Iraq. But providing jobs could solve other security problems, like stealing, looting and carjacking."
The economy here, like the guerrilla war that is holding it back, cannot be measured as much as sensed. But on one question, bankers and borrowers, soldiers and Iraqi politicians, day laborers and urbane professionals all agree: economic recovery and security are inextricably linked.
In a recent poll of Iraqis in six cities, 98 percent of those responding said creating more jobs would be "very effective" in improving security. But the investment that could produce the hundreds of thousands of new jobs that are needed is not likely to materialize in the current violence and chaos.
In a week of interviews with leaders and Iraqis at all levels of a jumbled economy, most expressed optimism for the longer-term prospects, tempered by security problems.
"Despite all the hindrances, as an economist I cannot help but believe that the economy will crash through the security concerns," said Adnan A. al-Janabi, the head of the consulting firm Mebex, which helped the World Bank develop its assessment for the conference of donors held last fall in Madrid.
Like many other places in Iraq, Baghdad is a place where gunfire crackles in thief-infested shopping districts at night and where a luxury hotel lies in ruins after a recent bombing.
Upscale markets are piled high with imported consumer goods, and back streets are filled with used junk for sale. Small building projects are just starting to appear amid the bomb-gutted wreckage of towering government ministries.
By some estimates, Iraq has imported a million cars since May 1. American economic advisers said Iraq's 17 private banks were receiving about $5 million a day from Iraqi exiles for everything from business projects to support for relatives, a flow that is buoying the economy.
The affluent areas of Baghdad seem to be getting more affluent. The shopping street in Mansur gleams like a display case for the consumer economy. A visitor would have no problem finding home-gym equipment like a rickety elliptical exercise machine for $195, or a 512-megabyte memory chip that plugs into a computer for extra, portable storage for less than $100.
At the Coalition Provisional Authority, which governs Iraq for now, a senior American adviser on economic policy said he was "quite confident that there is a consumer-led expansion under way, bolstered by business spending on reconstruction and construction."
The Economist Intelligence Unit, the forecasting branch of The Economist magazine, predicted that real growth in gross domestic product this year would be 25 percent, fueled by American spending on reconstruction, the recovery of the oil industry and increased trade.
But Iraq's current economic performance is far less encouraging. Mowafaq H. Mahmood, chief executive of the Bank of Baghdad, said that investors would not put their own money at risk, nor would bankers lend freely, until the risks of violence subsided. Mr. Mahmood said that his bank's lending was "much less" this year than last.
Those near the bottom of the heap are people like Saleh Fazzaah, who has a job as a porter in the market of Aziziya, a small town an hour's drive from Baghdad, but makes only about 1,000 dinars a day, less than 75 cents. 
He said he had already sold half of the roughly 500-square-foot house where his family of seven lives. "We live mainly on food rations," he said, smoking away the idle hours in a tea house. "But that only lasts for 10 days."
There are no basic economic statistics here, so nobody knows the real rate of unemployment. The occupation authority's economic adviser estimated that it was 22 percent to 30 percent. Most Iraqis say the rate is higher, though it has declined since the summer.
Both Mr. Mahmood and Mr. Janabi said that when it came to creating jobs, the occupying authority's policies were putting too little emphasis on basic, labor-intensive construction projects, like building new homes. This sort of investment would generate many more jobs, they said, than investments in capital-intensive projects like rebuilding the power grid or the oil industry.
Oil and electricity are high priorities -- oil for the billions of dollars it can earn for the government, electricity because of the public outcry for reliable power. Both are needed for long-term economic growth, but neither offers huge numbers of jobs right away.
Construction has traditionally provided employment for 30 percent of Iraq's work force and is the best way to generate jobs, Mr. Janabi said, adding that 30 percent of every dollar spent on construction is for labor.
Nasreen Siddek Berwari, the director of the Public Works Ministry, said recently that the ministry created more than 70,000 construction-related jobs last year, many of them temporary, while the occupying authority's economic adviser said internal estimates suggested that its projects had already generated "hundreds of thousands" of new jobs.
"In six months, this country will be a gigantic construction site," the adviser said. The adviser estimated that up to 50 percent of the $18.7 billion earmarked by Congress for rebuilding Iraq will be spent in Iraq, as opposed to going to foreign contractors, creating up to one million jobs over the next couple of years.
While some parts of the economy have revived, most of the prosperity is limited to government employees and merchants selling consumer goods to the relatively well-off.
At the local hospital in Aziziya, Telba Kamel knows she is better off than most. As a nurse, she now earns 100,000 Iraqi dinars, or about $75 a month, a big raise from her old salary of 3,700 dinars.
Ms. Kamel's face lit up as she made her rounds, talking about how she has splurged on children's clothes, a color television and a water heater. But with a family of 11 to support, she said, her newfound prosperity still feels fragile. She worries about the rising prices of necessities.
On a recent afternoon in Aziziya, Nashaat Abdullah and several friends were moving a refrigerator-size safe into his jewelry store. Business is 10 times what it was before the war, Mr. Abdullah said, because state employees, many of them women, have much more money now.
But for every Iraqi with new money, others live in a flea-market economy, said Naama Moussa and his friends, who drive around Baghdad every day, down streets and alleys, shouting offers to buy second-hand furniture. One large house they scouted was empty save for a few pairs of shoes the owners hoped to pawn, said Yusef Salah, a driver.
Mr. Moussa said his customers were "the middle class, who can't afford new things."
The mixed picture was reflected in the recent opinion poll, taken by a contractor for the occupying authority who interviewed 1,167 people. In the poll, 60 percent of respondents echoed Ms. Kamel, who said her income was "just enough to get by now." 
Only 3 percent of those surveyed reported making enough money "to live comfortably." Sixteen percent reported living on "only the monthly food ration," a remnant of international sanctions, and another 21 percent said they often could not afford basic needs. 
In a country still shaking off decades of Baathist socialism, the talk of capital formation and private investment that is bandied about by American economists and the ministers of the fledgling government sound as foreign as the slang of American soldiers.
When the pollsters asked what promise a political party could make to win votes, nearly half of those surveyed said the promise of jobs created in the public sector would entice them. Only a tenth as many said they would be swayed by promises of jobs in the private sector.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Unemployed laborers waited on a recent Friday to be hired in Tayeran Square in Baghdad, even though most businesses are shut on Fridays. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times); Workers from the construction company Dar al-Salam building the foundation of a new house last month in the Adhamiya district in Baghdad. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); BOMBINGS (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); TRENDS (70%); CARJACKING (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); HARDWARE STORES (56%) Iraq; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Public Opinion; Labor; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism; Iraq

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Neela Banerjee; John H Jr Cushman

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



204 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SECURITY CONFERENCE; 
Rumsfeld Fervently Defends Iraq War to European Critics

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: MUNICH, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on Saturday offered an impassioned defense of the American-led war against Iraq to some of Europe's fiercest critics of the conflict.
 Mr. Rumsfeld placed the blame for the war squarely on Saddam Hussein for his "deception and defiance," and refusal to abandon his illegal weapons program, as Libya did recently. 
 "It was his choice," Mr. Rumsfeld said in a speech here to 250 government ministers, lawmakers and national security experts from 30 countries, most of them in Europe. "If the Iraqi regime had taken the same steps Libya is now taking, there would have been no war." 
Asked in a question-and-answer session afterward about apparent American intelligence failures in Iraq, he acknowledged that it was a question of crucial importance that would be examined by the commission appointed Friday by President Bush, but emphasized that the panel would look at intelligence successes as well as shortcomings.
Mr. Rumsfeld's remarks drew several pointed questions from the audience challenging how the administration could defend its doctrine of pre-emptive strikes against perceived threats when the precise intelligence needed for such a strategy apparently failed in the case of Iraq.
"If you're going to live in this world, and it is a dangerous world, you do have to have elegant intelligence," Mr. Rumsfeld acknowledged.
But he repeatedly defended the get-them-before-they-get-us doctrine in an age when terrorists are threatening to acquire and use biological, chemical and nuclear weapons as "something that has to be weighed and considered by all of us" given the possible catastrophic consequences.
A year ago at this same international security conference, the Munich Conference on Security Policy, Mr. Rumsfeld sparred with European officials, notably Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister, over whether NATO member nations should gird for war with Iraq or allow weapons inspectors to continue their search. Thousands of antiwar demonstrators gathered then in the streets of Munich.
This year, with the Bush administration needing European troops to help stabilize and rebuild Iraq and Afghanistan, it has sought to smooth over the trans-Atlantic rift, including a major speech in Switzerland last month by Vice President Dick Cheney. 
Conference participants this week said they sensed that tensions had eased, replaced by a desire to move beyond the dispute and to combat common security problems. This year, smaller numbers of protesters were kept away from the conference by thousands of police officers.
In this climate, many officials here expected a tempered, if not conciliatory speech on Saturday from Mr. Rumsfeld, who is still regarded by many Germans and French, in particular, as a villain for his dismissive remarks about "old Europe." Instead, Mr. Rumsfeld, feisty and unyielding, appeared eager to put a potential adversary on the defensive as he laid out the administration's rationale for the war in the absence of any illegal Iraqi weapons.
"Think about what was going on in Iraq a year ago with people being tortured, rape rooms, mass graves, gross corruption, a country that has used chemical weapons against its own people," he said in response to a question, his voice rising, his hands chopping the air for emphasis.
He then turned the question back on the audience. "There were prominent people from representative countries in this room that opined that they really didn't think it made a hell of a lot of difference who won," he said, nearly shouting. "Shocking. Absolutely shocking."
Asked whether America's stature in the world had been diminishedsince the war, he acknowledged the Iraq war had taken its toll, but contended that it was more because of biased reporting by Arab media like Al Jazeera than anything the United States had done.
"I know in my heart and my brain that America ain't what's wrong in the world," he said.
Some European participants said they were stunned by what they called Mr. Rumsfeld's arrogance, especially in light of the apparent intelligence failures in Iraq. "His view is, 'We're right, they're wrong, and we'll continue to be right,' " said Christoph Bertram, director of the German Institute for International Politics and Security in Berlin. "It was a performance of 'We know better.' "
Other participants said the speech illustrated a problem of Europeans and Americans talking past one another on crucial security issues.
Speaking to the conference before Mr. Rumsfeld's address, Mr. Fischer, the German foreign minister, said of the Iraq war that "events have proven the position we took at the time to be right." But he then repeatedly called for both sides to set aside their views on the war and work closely to ensure that Iraq does not fall victim to former members of Mr. Hussein's government and foreign terrorists operating in Iraq.
"We have to win the peace together," Mr. Fischer said, adding that only United Nations involvement could bring legitimacy to the process of restoring Iraqi sovereignty. 
He proposed that the United States and Europe pool their resources to save the Middle East from what he called a crisis of modernization that was fostering terrorism and instability in the region. But he voiced skepticism about an American proposal for NATO to assume control of a Polish-led division in south-central Iraq.
He proposed a wide-ranging Middle East initiative to enhance security, bolster local economies and strengthen democratic institutions in Middle Eastern nations'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld yesterday at the security talks in Munich. Joshcka Fischer, the German foreign minister, is at left rear. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (69%); TERRORISM (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Intelligence Services

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Joschka (Min) Fischer

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); GERMANY (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Iraq; Europe; Germany; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



205 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: G-7 Statement Signals Worry About Dollar 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: BOCA RATON, Fla., Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Hoping to assuage widespread international alarm about the sinking value of the American dollar, the United States and other members of the Group of 7 industrialized countries declared Saturday that "excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates are undesirable for economic growth."
 The statement, issued by finance ministers of the member countries, represented at least a tepid acknowledgment by the United States that the dollar's rapid decline and the euro's rise could jeopardize the exports of European nations even as American exports receive a lift. 
 By expanding on earlier calls for flexibility in exchange rates, the statement implied sharper criticism of Asian governments, notably China and Japan, that have actively worked to keep their own currencies from rising in value.
The statement was a compromise between the stance of the Bush administration, which has condoned the dollar's decline and argued that exchange rates should be driven by "market forces," and that of European leaders, who wanted a more forceful effort. 
Global currency markets are unlikely to be impressed, because American officials provided no hint that they are about to prevent a further gradual decline in the dollar.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, summarizing results of the meeting, did not even allude to the communique's statement about exchange rates. He refused to elaborate on its meaning. "I don't think there is any point in trying to interpret the statement," he said. 'It's written in fairly plain English."
The dollar has lost a quarter of its value against the euro in the past year, and a third of its value in the past two years. The weaker dollar has provided a big lift to American exporters, because a cheaper dollar makes American products cheaper in foreign markets. American exports shot up 19.1 percent in the final quarter of last year, and they are expected to keep rising this year.
But the strong euro is causing problems for European exporters by making their products more expensive in the United States. International anxieties about the United States' plunging currency and massive borrowing needs were higher at this Group of 7 meeting than in years.
European finance ministers and central bankers, having watched the dollar's slide against the euro in the past year, sought to reach some sort of agreement that would stop the dollar from falling further. Exports are virtually the only source of economic growth in countries like France and Germany.
Mr. Snow repeatedly told the ministers that the administration "has a plan" to reduce by half the United States' budget deficit over the next five years. Many budget analysts say deficit reduction will be extremely difficult because of the administration's support for large tax cuts as well as the costs of maintaining troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The budget deficit increases the United States' need for foreign borrowing, already at extraordinarily high levels. The American current account deficit, the broadest measure of trade and financial transactions with the rest of the world, is about $500 billion a year.
European leaders put part of the blame for the recent currency shifts on the Bush administration's willingness to let the budget deficit soar and the dollar fall. "We are all interdependent," said Francis Mer, France's finance minister, of the American budget deficit, which the White House predicts will reach $521 billion this year. 
Adding to the tension, European economic growth is much slower and more fragile than that of the United States. The European Central Bank has predicted that growth in the 12-nation euro zone will be about two percent in 2004, about half as fast as the growth expected this year in the United States.
European leaders loudly complained about "excessive" currency shifts, and pushed the Group of 7 to drop its previous call for greater "flexibility" in exchange rates.
The group adopted that position at its meeting last year in Dubai, largely because the United States wanted to push China to let its own currency rise in value against the dollar and other currencies. This year's statement still calls for flexibility, but the reference is now clearly aimed at Asian countries, not Europe. 
The policies of Asian governments, particularly China and Japan, loomed over all discussions this weekend. Both countries have made huge purchases American Treasury securities and dollars to try to restrain their currencies from rising too much against the dollar. The Bank of Japan bought about $175 billion in American securities in 2003, then $67 billion more in January 2004 alone.
That did not prevent the Japanese yen from rising to its highest level in three years against the dollar, but Japanese leaders signaled that they are not about to stop their interventions just yet. "I told him that currencies should reflect market fundamentals in a stable manner and that it is up to each nation to act against excesses," Sadakazu Tanigaki, Japan's finance minister, told reporters here on Friday, referring to his discussions with Mr. Snow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Snow, left, at the Group of 7 meeting, with the French and German finance ministers, Francis Mer and Hans Eichel. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EURO (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Currency

ORGANIZATION: Group of Seven

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe; Japan; China

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



206 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY; 
Bettman Says Labor Tops List Of Issues

BYLINE:  By PAT BORZI

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Near the end of his All-Star weekend news conference Saturday, N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman interrupted his answer to yet another labor question with this warning: "Don't confuse rhetoric with facts. If somebody says something -- even us -- make us prove it. I'm confident we can."
 At least Bettman knew to expect the questions, which took up most of his 45-minute session at the Xcel Energy Center. As the All-Star Game returned to one of the most vibrant hockey areas in the country, the threat of a lockout this fall remains the N.H.L.'s foremost problem in the minds of most players, coaches and league officials. 
 In the coming months, the N.H.L. must also deal with an expiring television contract and a game so choked by the neutral-zone trap and efficient goaltending that offense has slowed to a trickle. Bettman says he thinks solutions to all the problems -- labor, scoring and television -- "can all move on parallel tracks."
But labor remains the trickiest problem to fix. Although Bettman is optimistic that the league and the union will reach an agreement before next season, the sides cannot even agree on the terms of their disagreement -- mainly, whether the league has proposed a hard salary cap.
"We proposed a link between revenues and player salaries," Bettman said. "It's been said we proposed a $31 million individual salary cap. It just isn't true. We did not propose a cap, and I defy anyone to show me a document that says we did."
Bob Goodenow, president of the players association, said he had one: a one-page memo from the league to the union that, at the bottom, listed a proposed payroll of between $30 million and $31 million per team. "For him to suggest they haven't done this is very disingenuous, but not surprising," Goodenow said.
Bettman said: "The one-pager we gave them was this: These are revenues. These are player costs. These are reasonable profits. This is what's left. We never got past that."
The union proposed revenue sharing and a 5 percent reduction in salaries, which the owners say is not enough to fix the game's economic problems. The lack of common ground left most All-Star players uneasy.
"I don't know how it's going to affect me," said Rick Nash, a 19-year-old wing for the Columbus Blue Jackets, whose 31 goals lead the league. "I don't know what's going to happen. I wish I knew."
Veterans like Philadelphia's Jeremy Roenick, who went through the 1994-95 lockout, say they are prepared to play in Europe or form their own league if the N.H.L. locks them out. Roenick, who played in Germany during the last lockout, said he had saved enough money to withstand a one- or two-year stoppage.
"We've got our roots dug in just as much as the owners do," he said. "I don't think somebody like myself or Keith Tkachuk or Mike Modano -- we don't need to play another game in the league if we don't have to. A lockout is not good for the game. If the owners want to say it's going to take two or three years, I'm wondering how many years I'm going to play anyway."
Roenick said the fear of a multiyear shutdown was real, and frightening. "I think it's more scary for the sport and for the owners than it is for the players," he said. "The players can go play in Europe. They can play in the different leagues. But the owners are going to lose their franchises, and they'll have to deal with the people that work for them; they'll have to deal with the buildings that will sit empty.
"The Buffalos, the Carolinas, are they going to stick around? Is Ottawa going to stick around? Calgary? Edmonton? Those teams are not going to be able to withstand one or two years. There's going to be a lot at stake, there's no question."
Bettman said the situation was not nearly as dire as Roenick portrayed it. "I don't know why there is rhetoric from the players that there will be a two-, two-and-a-half-year work stoppage," Bettman said. "We want to make a deal."
But as of today, there is not one in sight.
"Who knows what's going to happen?" said Tkachuk, the St. Louis wing who said he would spend a lockout coaching his sons rather than playing.
"I'm optimistic something will happen, that it'll get done, and we'll be playing next year. Nobody can afford to be out." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); SPORTS REVENUES (75%); SPORTS TAMPERING (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%) Hockey, Ice; Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: XCEL ENERGY INC (57%); COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%)

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%)

PERSON: Pat Borzi; Gary (Comr) Bettman

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



207 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2731 words

HEADLINE: Mom and Dad! I'm Back Home. 

BYLINE:  By LISA A. PHILLIPS

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
WHEN Darsha Leslie, 44, left Fort Wayne, Ind., last year to move back to Westchester County, she had to give up her $440-a-month two-bedroom apartment.
 In White Plains, her hometown, she found that a one-bedroom apartment for herself and her two teenage children would cost $1,200, almost three times as much, an unaffordable prospect on her $28,000-a-year salary. So she moved her family into her mother's one-bedroom apartment on Harmon Street. 
 "She gets the bedroom," Ms. Leslie said. "We are all in the living room. It's rough." 
Frank Rasulo, 27, a financial analyst, was laid off from his job at a small Wall Street software company last March. His rent was a good deal: just $875 to share a house in White Plains. He stuck it out until the end of January, when he moved back in with his parents, Ray and Maryann Rasulo, who have a three-bedroom co-op in White Plains, and who he says are his "really good friends."
There are signs throughout Westchester County that moving back home is becoming an increasingly common response to the combination of rapidly increasing local housing costs, a tight job market, and lagging wages. The trend cuts across class lines: perhaps two or more generations of low-income adults "double up" in a household to share costs, or perhaps middle- and upper-middle-class parents make their adult children welcome to help them save up enough money to rent or to buy a place of their own. 
High housing costs are a major cause. Ms. Leslie is making the same amount of money she made when she left White Plains in 1997, but average advertised rents in Westchester County have risen 43 percent since then, according to a survey by Westchester Residential Opportunities, Inc., a non-profit housing agency. Home prices have also risen steeply, with the median sale price of a single family home hitting $564,000 in 2003, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service, Inc. Even acoop apartment, with a median sale price of $125,250, would require a stiff down payment beyond the means of many workers in income brackets similar to Ms. Leslie's and higher. 
Ms. Leslie is self-conscious about her situation, particularly since she works as a case manager for Cluster Housing Resource Center, a nonprofit housing advocacy organization in Yonkers. 
"I'm a big advocate for welfare reform and being self-sufficient," she said. "What does it look like for me to teach self-sufficiency? It's almost like perpetrating a fraud. But it's a reality." 
In middle- and upper-middle-class communities of Westchester and the region, parents who called themselves empty nesters when their youngest left for college are also finding their children returning home months or years after graduation. Though some families in this situation declined to speak with a reporter out of embarrassment, many interviewed said the phenomenon of adult children living with their parents is becoming an increasingly visible, acceptable, and even trendy way to cut costs. 
Mark Crescenzo, a real estate agent, 32, plans to move with his partner, Jason Kahn, 28, and their foster daughter, Tahlia Crescenzo, 2, to his mother's home in Stony Point after they sell their coop apartment. When Mr. Kahn first proposed the arrangement, Mr. Crescenzo resisted it and thought his mother would, too. But then they both warmed up to the idea because it would help the couple save money for a house. 
"It's almost impossible for young people today to start out and get something decent," he said. "Real estate has gone up so fast."
Jacob Cooper, 23, moved back to his parents' home in Hastings-on-Hudson a year after he graduated from Amherst College. He discovered that he had plenty of company among his old high school classmates. "We laugh about it," he said. "We think it's funny that our parents go away for the weekend and we have people over. It's like throwing a high school party when your parents go away. I don't think it damages our self-esteem." 
Dana Colonna, 23, a special education teacher who works in White Plains and lives with her parents in Congers, said: "Most of my friends are still living at home. I also know a lot of teachers still at home. The ones who've moved out are older." 
Mr. Crescenzo said he and his partner are used to some limits on their privacy already because of their foster daughter, but he knows more changes are in store when they move in with his mother, Patricia Crescenzo. "While I am comfortable with my mother, she's my mother," he said. "She's not Jason's mother. He'll be on guard with her."
Despite a wealth of anecdotal evidence suggesting that many Westchester County adults are living with their parents, establishing how many people are in this situation is not a straightforward process. 
An analysis of the 2000 United States Census prepared by David M. Muchnick, principal in the Manhattan consulting firm Sustainable Enterprise, shows that the number of 20- to 34- year-olds in Westchester County who are neither heads of households nor spouses of heads of households -- in other words, a group likely either to live with their parents or roommates -- actually fell to 46 percent in 2000 from 52 percent in 1990. This decline was accompanied by a substantial exodus of this age group from the county: 42,123 left, a more than 20 percent decrease. 
Nationally, 56.8 percent of men and 43.2 percent of women 22 to 31 years old lived at home in 2002, according to the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey. A slightly older demographic sampling -- 25- to 34-year-olds -- showed 13.6 percent of men and 8.3 percent of women living at home, figures that increased slightly from 2001. 
But the Westchester numbers don't take into account the main local economic challenge of the last three years, which started after Mr. Muchnick's figures were compiled from the 2000 census data: a struggling economy in New York City and nationally, combined with housing costs that continue to skyrocket. 
Rising housing costs are a key factor in whether and when people go out on their own, according to research done by Mary Elizabeth Hughes, an assistant professor of sociology at Duke University.
She said that in metropolitan areas with higher rents and home prices, the more expensive living arrangements, including living alone, were less common among 18- to 30-year-olds. "Young people may be staying at home more," she said. "They may be less likely to marry or live alone and more likely to live with their parents or in group roommate situations." 
In a report prepared for the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. called "The Crisis of Affordable Housing for Hudson Valley's Working People," Mr. Muchnick found local evidence of delays in household formation. "The counties where rents are highest -- Nassau, Suffolk, Putnam, Westchester -- also have the lowest rates of people forming their own households," he said. "Young people living at home aren't counted in estimating local housing shortages, so this essentially adds to the shortage." 
The report also estimated that workers would have to be making at least $36,225 to be able to afford the median gross rent in Westchester. Starting salaries often fall far short of that. 
Jonique Richardson, 22, makes $13 per hour doing data entry at New York Presbyterian Hospital and $9 per hour working at the front desk of a fitness center. Both jobs are part time. She lives in Mount Vernon with her parents, putting away about $600 per month after she pays her student loans, cellphone bill and other personal expenses.
"I'm trying really hard to save enough to move, but I have bills to pay," she said. "There's no way I could leave now. I have to save enough to cover myself for a few months." 
Ashley Van Buren, 22, makes about $30,000 a year working as a production assistant in Yonkers on Jonathan Demme's remake of "The Manchurian Candidate." She looked for a place of her own, but found that the only apartments she could afford were too small, in bad condition or too far from the train station. She decided she would be better off moving back in with her parents and her younger sister in Tappan. "I thought I'd be better off living at home," she said. 
For those fresh out of college, such arrangements are not especially unusual, nor is it unusual for elderly parents to live with their children. Yet anecdotal evidence suggests that the rate of such arrangements is higher in Westchester, New York City and other places where housing costs are comparatively high -- and in Westchester, where homes are bigger than they are in the city, it's easier to do. For example, Mr. Rasulo, the unemployed financial analyst lived with his parents for three years after college. 
"It's something I feel happy doing," he said. "The problem is not moving home. The only thing that's been difficult is being out of work for a full year and not being able to move forward with my goals."
Another factor easing his move was that he had plenty of understanding from his peers. His longtime girlfriend still lives at home in White Plains. A close friend, Pablo Sanchez, 29, is also planning to move out of his Yonkers apartment and in with his parents in White Plains, even though he's earning $60,000 as a public health consultant. He said the move will help him save enough money to put a sizable down payment on a condominium or a house. "I make enough money to live on my own and save," he said. "But if I move back in with my parents, I'll save at a faster rate." 
Mr. Sanchez is not alone in preferring to camp out with the folks in order to hold out for a better living situation in the future. Ms. Colonna makes $45,500 per year, but she has decided to spend a second year living with her parents in Congers to save money. "I decided I might want to buy a condo," she said. "I don't want to move out just to say I have my own place, then struggle from paycheck to paycheck and not have anything." 
Ms. Hughes said her research into the impact of housing costs on new household formation revealed that young adults' expectations of the quality of where they live are rising along with costs. "Kids don't just want to move out, they want to move into a nice place," she said. "They want to live alone, not with roommates. Part of it is rising material aspirations." 
Most parents interviewed for this article said they were eager to see their children save up for a nice place to live and did not expect rent or financial compensation during their time at home. Louise Colonna, Ms. Colonna's mother, said her daughter is paying for her own car and credit card bills, "but any of the expenses as far as food or rent, no, because I want her to stand up on her own two feet when she goes on her own."
Mr. Sanchez says his parents are about to retire and buy a house in Miami. He will take over half the rent on their apartment when he moves in. "I want to save money for myself and help them save money," he said. "I'm living with my parents, but they're also living with me." 
The advantages of living at home can go beyond the monetary for both parents and children. "It can be a fabulous experience," said Susan Newman, a social psychologist and the author of "Nobody's Baby Now: Reinventing Your Adult Relationship with Your Mother and Father" (Walker & Co., 2003). "Parents have the opportunity to know adult children as adults. Children get to see their parents as people. They can share experiences beyond the parent-child role of 'O.K., it's time to get your homework done."'
Though Mr. Cooper said there are times when he feels like he's "in middle school again," he describes life with his parents in Hastings as "much better than I ever expected it to be."
"My parents understand I'm here to do my work," he said. "They're very generous." 
His mother, Martha Cooper, said: "Emotionally, it's just been great. I know he thinks I ask too many questions and I think he doesn't communicate enough, but that's an old story. This arrangement is something we are doing happily and excitedly." 
For some families, having an adult child back at home feels more natural than not. Mr. Rasulo remained very close to his family when he lived on his own, visiting several times a week. His father, Frank Rasulo, is glad his son is coming back home.
"I missed him when he was gone," he said. "It was hard for him to leave as it was for us to see him leave. We never really broke our bond." 
Some families, though, have a more difficult time updating parent-child roles. Ms. Richardson said that since she moved home, her parents have been pressuring her to go to Bible study and church the way she did when she was growing up.
"I want to leave," she said. "I respect my parents, but I have my own way of doing things. When you go to school, you have freedom, you live life the way you want to live it. Living at home is hard to adjust to."
Ms. Van Buren said she also has her difficult moments. She'll come home after a long day on the set, only to find that she's expected to help her younger sister write her college application essay. "You fall back into the way you were before," she said. "Then I have that fear of, oh my God, will I be able to live alone when it's time? Take care of myself?" 
There are other frustrations, too. Adults living at home often find themselves going without freedoms that are typical for others their age, like having significant others spend the night or staying out late without having to let mom and dad know where you are. For Ms. Van Buren, living in the suburbs with mom and dad means being isolated from the urban social life she had thought she would have after college. "Working such long hours, I don't always want to go down into the city on weekends," she said. 
Rabbi Alfredo Borodowski, who heads the Jewish Community Center of Harrison, has counseled some young adults in his congregation who have found themselves back at home after college. "It's seen as a step back," he said, "and you get hooked into some of the dynamics that bring you back to the precollege state." 
But he added that time at home can also be spiritually rewarding for young adults. "They are at the age when they come from college and begin building their identity in the world," he said. "Spiritual questions about who they are begin to emerge. I don't fear for them. When they come to me with these kinds of questions, I know they are using the time in a useful way and they will come out of the experience stronger than before." 

Some Steps To Take If Paths Cross
WHEN an adult child moves back home, both parents and child may need to make changes in the way they relate to one another. 
"Both want to be careful or wary of slipping back into old patterns," said Susan Newman, a social psychologist and author of "Nobody's Baby Now: Reinventing Your Adult Relationship with Your Mother and Father." "It's very easy to slide back into your adolescent self, and the parents into the care-taking role." 
Her advice for successful cohabitation falls into three baskets.
For parents, here is her advice: 
1.Be aware and sympathetic to the feelings of your adult child, who may be facing professional or personal setbacks.
2.Support and encourage your children's efforts to take care of these setbacks. 
3.Realize your child is not the same person as when he or she left home. Eating habits, politics and social habits may be different.
4.Be careful not to "enable" a lazy child. Set up a plan or set a time limit to urge your child toward independence.
5.Enjoy the opportunity to get to know your adult child in new ways.
For adult children, here is her advice:
1.Don't try to change your parents. "Call up your sense of humor," she said. "Remind yourself that when mom's being meddlesome or dad's being controlling that this is the way they've always been."
2.Respect that your parents' lives have changed.
3.Contribute to the household; contributions may be either financial or through "services in kind," like mowing the lawn or cooking dinner.
4.Have a goal or a plan for moving out.
5.Respect your parents' values. 6.Focus on what's positive about being home and your goals. 7.Enjoy the opportunity to get to know your parents in new ways.
And finally, Ms. Newman has some advice for both parents and children: Negotiate new policies about sharing chores, finances and household responsibilities, she says. Perhaps most important is the last one: Don't let tensions build. Talk through conflicts. LISA A. PHILLIPS

GRAPHIC: Photos: Darsha Leslie with son Allen Sledge, moved in with her mother. Top right: Jacob Cooper, with father, Neal, returned. Frank Rasulo and father, Ray, cook together. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Susan Newman, Ph.D.; Jacob Cooper, top, helps out since he moved back to his parents Hastings-on-Hudson home while he saves money for graduate school. Frank Rasulo, center, is back in his old bedroom at his parents home in White Plains, where he is living while he looks for a job. Darsha Leslie, with son, Allen Sledge, works overtime on a Saturday. She moved back from Indiana with her family into her mothers apartment while she looks, she says, for a place of her own that she can afford. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); EMPTY NESTERS (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (54%) Housing; Families and Family Life

COMPANY: WALL STREET SOFTWARE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: Lisa Phillips

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



208 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: How Did the Governor Do? Three Opinions 

 BODY:
LAST Wednesday, three longtime experts on state politics sat down in the Hartford offices of the public affairs television network, Connecticut Network, CT-N, to watch Gov. John G. Rowland's State of the State address. Roy Occhiogrosso has worked for the House and Senate Democrats and was William E. Curry Jr.'s campaign manager during his unsuccessful campaign for governor in 2002. He is a principal in the Global Strategy Group, a political and private-sector consulting firm. Christopher C. Healy is a lobbyist in Hartford at the law firm Updike, Kelly & Spellacy, has worked on political campaigns at the local, state and national level and has served on the Republican State Central Committee. And Dr. Howard L. Reiter heads the political science department at the University of Connecticut. These are excerpts, compiled by The New York Times, of some of their debates about the address, prefaced by the relevant sections (in italics) of the governor's speech.

Cities
"Our vision and investments have permanently altered the landscape of these cities. That's the quiet triumph behind the revitalization of our cities.
Now we must unleash our cranes and ambitions to the needs of mid-size cities like Norwich, Torrington, Bristol and Norwalk."
Mr. Occhiogrosso: From my perspective and I think more importantly from the perspective of the people actually living in the cities, I think this shows something of a detachment from reality I don't think there's any question that the effort's been there. I think it's been the wrong type of effort. I think it's gone in the wrong direction. I don't think you revitalize cities by building football stadiums and convention centers. But to suggest that Hartford, Bridgeport, Waterbury and New Haven are revitalized and now it's time to move on to the next set of cities would be a shock to the people who actually live there. Per capita I think Hartford is the poorest city in the nation, Bridgeport has the highest effective property tax rate in the nation, property taxpayers in Waterbury faint when they open their tax bills. The sewer lines are breaking there every single day. You can't drive down the city streets. The suggestion that we have revitalized these cities and now it's time to move on to the next ones, is, I think, just a testament to a lack of either understanding what's been going on there or a refusal on his part to acknowledge his own policy failures.
Mr. Healy: For 50 years while the Democrats ran this state, controlled the governorships and the Legislature, Hartford, Bridgeport and New Haven were three of the poorest cities in the nation, in the top 10. That has changed in the sense that the governor as a Republican put political convention on its ear and said the future of our state depends on first stabilizing our cities and then turning them around. A lot of these problems are endemic, sociological, or pathology that's at work. I agree with Roy that you can't fix a city by putting up public buildings, but you can change the attitude about the city by showing a willingness by working with the local leaders to turn the possibilities around
Dr. Reiter: I think he's clearly trying to expand his base from whatever support he's been able to increase from the big cities to the smaller ones. I think in some of the comparisons of Connecticut cities and others across the nation is kind of like comparing apples and oranges, although certainly all of the cities the governor mentioned have serious problems surrounding poverty. The per capita income or poverty rates are less comparable, because in other parts of the country cities absorb the suburbs, and therefore end up looking economically more healthy while the downtown inner city areas are just as poorly off as some of our cities

Education
"In this year of holding the line on spending, education is one of the few areas where I refuse to stand still. Our investment has produced higher performing students, better schools, increasing enrollment in our public universities and recognition that Connecticut is a leader in education policy."
Mr. Healy: I think even the governor's fiercest critics would concede that, at least on the higher education system, the university system has not only been an attraction for kids here to go to school, but for kids from around the country and all over the world. And the community college system, the branches, which were previously neglected, are not anymore.
Mr. Occhiogrosso: As it pertains to education, there's always been a contrast between what Rowland talks about and what he actually does. And I agree with Chris, the focus on higher education theoretically is terrific and he deserves credit for that and he and the Legislature have invested billions in infrastructure. The problem is the governor hasn't invested money in students and so you have beautiful buildings, but a lot of folks can no longer afford to go there because tuition's been climbing, skyrocketing, and so it's one half of the problem. I agree that the focus is in the right place, but it is leaving something out of the equation to not address that.
Dr. Reiter: On higher education, there really was a lack of specifics here and as Roy said there has been a major commitment to the infrastructure at universities like mine. But I would also add to the fact that students may be underserved, we also have a sharp decline in the instructional staff. We may have students and we may have very nice buildings, and I don't mean to understate the importance of the infrastructure. I think it's great what's been happening. But we don't have the instructional staff to teach them and we're constantly scrambling for adjuncts or graduate students to teach courses so that our undergraduates can graduate on time. This is a major problem at UConn.

The Scandal
"The most important commodity we have is time. Time for ourselves, time for our families, time to reduce the stress in our lives Adversity can beat you down or it can make you stronger. Thank God that in America challenge is always followed by even greater success. This country does not know retreat and no where is that more apparent than right here in Connecticut."
Dr. Reiter: I recently reread Clinton's 1998 state of the union address and I've heard that the governor is looking to Clinton as a role model for how to get through a crisis like this.
Mr. Occhiogrosso: Bet you never thought he'd say that. Bet he never thought he'd say that.
Mr. Healy: I don't think he said that.
Dr. Reiter: Well, at any rate, Clinton gave that address right after the Monica Lewinsky scandal broke. People were talking in terms of days left in his presidency. There was not even a hint in that speech, not even the coded language that we find in this one, about the scandal. Clinton was very focused on saying things are going to continue as usual, I'm going to do the job the people elected me for, and I think that it just shows the much more precarious situation that the governor's in. I felt that he could have gotten away without any reference to the problems he's having and as he tried to universalize his experience and tried to make it sound as though we're all in tough times and we're all going to get through it. I don't think that will work because clearly there are revelations coming out all the time.
Mr. Healy: Don't forget, this is a man who's spent his whole life in politics. He's an alumni of the chamber. He has worked very effectively with Democrats over the last nine years. Roy can attest to the fact that it wasn't too long ago when these guys were having beers at night and singing "Bye-bye, Miss American Pie." Things have changed obviously since then. I think what he was trying to do was to basically say "Look, I'm a human being. I have a family and I know what I did was wrong. Whatever will happen will happen, but I'm resolute in finishing what I started." I agree with Howard. It's sort of like an 800-pound gorilla there in the room, pink elephant, whatever you want to call it. I thought he handled it well. And I think legislators showed a remarkable decorum. There weren't the walkouts that were anticipated. I wouldn't switch places with him for all the money in the world. Whatever you think of him, it takes courage to walk into the chamber under those circumstances and say "We've got a state to run here."
 Mr. Occhiogrosso: I get the sense that he's at a funeral, but he's the only one who doesn't know that he's dead. I would respectfully disagree with what Chris said. It doesn't take courage to walk in there. It's the ultimate act of selfishness. Because at this point it really is all anybody's focused on. Nobody was really listening to what he had to say today. Everybody's sitting there thinking, "Huh, I wonder how much longer he's going to be here? And will this be the last state of the state speech he gives? Will this be the last time he addresses the chamber?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Watching the State of the State address, from left, Christopher C. Healy, a lobbyist in Hartford, Roy Occhiogrosso, who has worked for House and Senate Democrats and Dr. Howard L. Reiter, head of UConn's political science department. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Roy Occhiogrosso, center, discussing the governor's speech with Dr. Howard L. Reiter, right, and Christopher C. Healy at the offices of Connecticut Network, CT-N, in Hartford. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 5); Gov. John G. Rowland during his speech Wednesday afternoon in Hartford, said, "Adversity can beat you down or it can make you stronger." (Photo by Change W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%) Politics and Government

COMPANY: UPDIKE KELLY & SPELLACY PC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: John G (Gov) Rowland; Christopher Healy; Roy Occhiogrosso; Howard Reiter

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



209 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
A Tale of Hate Hits Close to Home

BYLINE:  By JULIA C. MEAD

DATELINE: BRIDGEHAMPTON 

 BODY:
FARMINGVILLE, in central Suffolk County, is a world away from the South Fork. But some residents here say that over the past year they have noticed uncomfortable similarities with that hamlet, the infamous epicenter of Long Island's immigration wars.
 Here, as in Farmingville, there has been a rapid increase in undocumented, mostly Latino, workers, and increasing tensions about their presence. In Farmingville, those tensions erupted in violence in 2000. In the South Fork, people wonder: Could that happen here? 
 So it follows that a screening on Jan. 28 of the documentary film "Farmingville," a chronicle of the firestorm there, should draw a standing-room-only audience in Bridgehampton, even though it was on the evening after a major snowstorm. That the film won a special jury prize last month at the Sundance Film Festival no doubt was a draw. But audience members, Latino and Anglo, said they ventured out mostly because they were worried about whether the events in Farmingville could be repeated here.
"We're in for it, aren't we?" said Maryann Calendrille, a co-owner of Canio's bookstore in Sag Harbor.
Ms. Calendrille pointed out that in Southampton, there is a controversial proposal to build a hiring hall to keep day laborers off the streets, and that in East Hampton, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was cracking down on the congregation of such laborers at the train station. She also said that the opponents of illegal-immigrant workers have been increasingly vocal, as Latinos have exhibited growing political strength.
In Farmingville, disputes over the congregation of day laborers at a 7-Eleven swiftly accelerated into a battle in the Suffolk County Legislature over a proposed hiring hall. There were also battles there over overcrowded housing.
"This film shows the human scale of how people are dealing with each other day-to-day in increasingly horrific ways," Ms. Calendrille said after the screening of "Farmingdale," which was at the Bridgehampton National Bank headquarters. "We can explain economic theory forever, but if people are demonizing each other, well, that's the real danger and the thing we all have to work on."
About 140 people, roughly a quarter of them Latino, filled every seat in the bank's community room and stood along three walls. Among them were Dennis Suskind, a Southampton town councilman, a local lawyer, political advocates, business owners and day laborers.
The film was shown with subtitles in either Spanish or English to correspond with the dialog. The screening was sponsored by a local progressive Unitarian-Universalist congregation.
Latinos in the audience said it was important that the film be shown. "I am glad to see how many people came," said Chini Alarco, an organizer of a 42-team Latino soccer tournament in East Hampton. "People here need to know what happened in Farmingville."
Ms. Alarco, just like Farmingville residents interviewed in the film, discovered that soccer's popularity among Latinos "translates to political power," she said, then laughed wryly. "It's the main reason they haven't allowed us to build more soccer fields here."
"Farmingville," shot largely as events there unfolded, grants equal time to all sides: Anglos, Latinos, anti- and pro-immigrant advocates, county lawmakers and the police. The filmmakers, Carlos Sandoval and Catherine Tambini, said they got access by persuading those involved that they would be impartial. 
Mr. Sandoval, who left a career as a Manhattan lawyer and now lives in Amagansett, said he was inspired to make "Farmingville" after reading a newspaper article about two Mexican day laborers lured to an abandoned warehouse, then brutally attacked. Photographs of the attackers' white supremacist tattoos, used as evidence in their criminal trials, provided one of the film's more chilling moments.
Ms. Tambini lives in Hampton Bays and was a co-producer of "Suzanne Farrell: Elusive Muse," a 1990 documentary nominated for an Academy Award. She and Mr. Sandoval said they believed the Farmingville scenario could play out here, pointing out that Sachem Quality of Life, the homegrown base of Farmingville's anti-immigrant movement, has growing support on the East End. Mr. Sandoval said he found striking parallels between the South Fork and Farmingville, including the derogative language that some local residents use to refer to Latinos.
"I thought the Hamptons would be more progressive, but about 1999 or 2000 something changed," he said. "It was a souring experience."
Latinos on the South Fork have formed Organizacion Latino Americana, which has more than 100 active members and strong links to national, pro-immigrant groups. 
The group's president, Isabel Sepulveda de Scanlon, said after the screening that her organization was planning a Latino film festival with Southampton College. "There should be more Latinos making their own films and telling their own stories, don't you think?" she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An image from the documentary "Farmingville," above. The filmmakers, Catherine Tambini and Carlos Sandoval, answered questions after a recent screening. (Photographs by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); FILM (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); FESTIVALS (74%); REFUGEES (72%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); SOCCER (60%); BOOKSTORES (52%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%) Labor; Illegal Aliens; Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%)

PERSON: Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Farmingville (Ny)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



210 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK; 
Harnessing the Arts to Lure Crowds Downtown

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
GEORGE FRAYNE, known professionally as Commander Cody, led his band mates, the Lost Planet Airmen, through the front doors of Smokin' Al's, the new barbecue emporium on Main Street in Bay Shore one evening last month. The musicians hoped to fill up on barbecued ribs before their concert at the new Boulton Center for the Performing Arts four doors away. 
 But as Al Horowitz, who owns Smokin' Al's, tells the story, his 80-seat restaurant was packed, and with no time to wait, the Commander beat a hasty retreat. 
 Fifteen years ago, the Boulton was a triple-X movie theater, and many storefronts on Main Street stood vacant in Bay Shore. Today, a $2.4 million renovation later, the movie theater has become the 265-seat Boulton Center, and crowds are returning to downtown, even in this winter's bluster. 
"There's a chemistry, a buzz, in Bay Shore now because of the theater," Mr. Horowitz said. "It's a renaissance."
And not just in Bay Shore. A sampling of 55 Long Island arts organizations by the Long Island Association showed that they sold $11.6 million in tickets in 2002, the latest year for which complete information was available, compared with $8.3 million in 2001, an increase of nearly 29 percent.
Some of that increase reflects the effects of Sept. 11. People on Long Island didn't necessarily attend more concerts or plays than the year before, or visit more museums, but when they did go out, they went out locally, said Pearl Kamer, the association's chief economist, who conducted the survey.
Although the survey, which was released last month, did not include 2003, she said she believes the trend is continuing.
"We have an affluent population, a sophisticated population, and a highly educated population," Dr. Kamer said in an interview. "And what that population is saying is, 'We want the arts close at hand."'
Some of the increasing support for the arts represents a generational shift. Baby boomers are less inclined than their parents to equate "culture" with New York City, said Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
"You used to have to go to Carnegie Hall or Lincoln Center" for first-rate musical performances, Dr. Koppelman said. "But that isn't true any more. You have major concert halls here like the Tilles Center and the Staller Center." Smaller halls like the InterMedia Arts Center in Huntington and Theater Three in Port Jefferson have also acclimated Long Islanders to seek cultural entertainment close to home, he said. 
Bay Shore residents trace the comeback there to 1997, when the Chamber of Commerce organized a fund-raising drive for a community bandstand at the foot of West Main. But the big push came when the Great South Bay Y.M.C.A. acquired the XXX movie theater as a restoration project. Frank Boulton, the investment banker best known as the principal owner of the Long Island Ducks, agreed to help pay the bills. Acts booked so far include John Sebastian, known for his pop nostalgia act; the Amani Winds, an African-American ensemble with a nontraditional repertory; the Los Angeles Guitar Quartet, which plays classic music; and Commander Cody.
Like other once-vibrant downtowns of Long Island communities like Riverhead, Hempstead and Patchogue, Bay Shore's central business district was decimated after a mall opened nearby, siphoning off shoppers by the thousands. Now, merchants in Bay Shore and throughout Long Island are embracing the arts as a way to lure people back to Main Street. 
"One of the components of downtown revitalization is bringing in centers for the performing arts," said Susan Barbash, a Hauppauge developer and a trustee of the Great South Bay Y. People who attend films, concerts and shows "often begin or end their evenings at restaurants," she said, and they often patronize local stores as well. 
Performers, along with the many administrators, agents, stagehands and others who work behind the scenes, also dine at local restaurants, stay overnight at local hotels and buy services from local vendors, the Long Island Association's survey noted. 
From 1998 to 2002, hotels and motels on Long Island added nearly 2,200 jobs to meet demand generated by the arts, according to the report's data.
In Bay Shore, 9 out of 10 Main Street stores are now occupied, and several new businesses are scheduled to open this spring, including a Chinese restaurant, a sweet shop, a card shop and a lingerie store. 
The refrain is the same in Westhampton Beach. Nearly 10 years ago, seeking to provide a focal point for a stagnating downtown, a number of merchants, business owners and philanthropists joined with local cultural leaders to buy a dilapidated movie theater on Main Street. Now, reborn as the Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, the old movie theater is thriving, and, residents say, so is downtown.
In Riverhead, once the commercial hub and political center of Suffolk County and more recently a case study in confronting urban blight, volunteers saved the Vail-Leavitt Music Hall, an 1882 building listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It reopened last spring.
Riverhead turned to the arts in the early 90's in desperation. With the Tanger Factory Outlet Center under construction several miles away, the Business Improvement District commissioned a Maryland consulting firm to draft a survival strategy for local merchants. In April 1993, the consultants advised them to forget about competing head-to-head with national chains, and instead to remake downtown as a tourist destination. 
"The objective was to encourage nontraditional retail uses that would not compete with Route 58," said Andrea Lohneiss, Riverhead's community development director. The opening of the Atlantis Marine World aquarium on Main Street was a turning point, she said. But the town and county have also nurtured the fine and performing arts, she said, tapping private and government grants, volunteer enthusiasm and support from local businesses.
In addition to helping reopen Vail-Leavitt, she said, the East End Arts Council runs a music school for 400 students. A popular outdoor blues festival attracts thousands every summer. The East Enders Coffee House, a commercial venture, attracts nightly crowds to poetry readings and concerts, she said. Behind it, a new art gallery, the Blue Door Gallery, is making a name for itself.
And the ripple effect has helped local businesses, Ms. Lohneiss said.
Most renovations, like those in Riverhead, Bay Shore and Westhampton Beach, are financed privately, "Sometimes, where there's a historic building involved, there are federal grants," said Michelle Isabelle-Stark, the director of Suffolk County's Office of Cultural Affairs. 
Ed Tuccio, who owns Tweed's restaurant just around the corner from the Vail-Leavitt, said that he does more business on nights when the theater is open. The music hall and other cultural attractions, he said, draw a different type of visitor to Riverhead than do the shopping malls and chain retailers on Route 58.
"These are curious people who value the arts and who crave history," said Mr. Tuccio, whose restaurant promotes its turn-of-the-century origins and its bison specialties. "We can't compete with the fast-food places. We have to be different."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "There's a chemistry, a buzz, in Bay Shore now" because of the Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, a restaurant owner said. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); THEATER (57%) Culture

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (82%) Long Island Association

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



211 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
Writers Find Their Stage Is a Small World

BYLINE:  By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
JOHN BLENN'S first play, "X's and O's," had its premiere at the Stage Theater in Merrick in 1995. Since then, he has written 24 other full-length plays, turning out these sit-com-style social commentaries nearly as fast as he can type. Every one has been performed on a Long Island stage. That makes Mr. Blenn unusual because on the Island, playwrights have few opportunities to present original works. 
 In fact, Mr. Blenn has made his own opportunities; like an author who self-publishes, he acts and directs with his own ragtag traveling thespian troupe, Middle Class American Productions, which presents his plays at local theaters. Among them is the Brokerage in Bellmore, a 130-seat club better known for its weekend lineup of standup comedy fare, which is putting on his "Bloomer Pudding" for a three-night run beginning tomorrow. 
 "The tone of Long Island tends to gravitate towards the musicals and the trieds and trues," said Mr. Blenn, 44, of North Bellmore. "The theaters out here in general are afraid to try a lot of new things. You get Neil Simon over and over and over again." 
He continued, "It's almost impossible to sell unknown drama to the Long Island market." 
His point is echoed by theater directors and playwrights across the Island. They recite the hurdles: audiences that shy from the unfamiliar; a shaky bottom line and the need to fill seats; and proximity to Manhattan's rich theatrical menu, which may be why most local theaters cluster closer to the middle of the Island, or farther east. Left on the Island's playbill are vintage musicals, murder mysteries and dusty comedies.
Seth Rozin, president of the National New Play Network, an alliance of nonprofit professional theaters that champions new plays, said the lack of innovative theater was not limited to the Island. While people flock to new movies, they shy away from new plays.
"It does seem to be the mindset that a new play doesn't have as good a chance of being as good as the Shakespeare play that I know and love," Mr. Rozin said, pointing out that no theaters on the Island belong to the network, but that two in New Jersey do. 
One of those theaters, the New Jersey Repertory Company, in Long Branch, has five new productions slotted this year, as well as 20 to 30 readings of new plays and a biannual festival highlighting 10-minute plays, said Suzanne Barabas, the founder and artistic director. Ms. Barabas acknowledged the problems in presenting original work but said it was a matter of educating the community.
"As soon as people discover they are not going to know what they are going to see here, it's going to be something different, it's going to be something special, they get it," Ms. Barabas said. "We won't have plays if we don't start doing new works." 
Island theater directors do not dispute Ms. Barabas's point, but say the economic difficulties of presenting new plays are formidable.
"Doing theater is a roll of the dice to begin with," said Steve Hamilton, executive director of Bay Street Theater in Sag Harbor. "Anything that we can do to put the odds in our favor we do." 
At Bay Street, with 299 seats, at least one new play is among the five produced on the main stage each season. Other original pieces are presented in a reading series, rather than as full productions.
Tony Georgan has been artistic director of the Stage Theater in Merrick for 11 years. "Original pieces are a gamble, and most theaters on the Island struggle to survive," he said.
To sell subscriptions to his 185-seat wraparound amphitheater, Mr. Georgan sticks to sure bets like the musical "The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas," opening today for a run through March 14, and "Unexpected Guests," an annual dollop of Agatha Christie. 
The 53-year-old Arena Players Repertory Company in East Farmingdale is committed to presenting 2 new plays each February, out of the 20 it presents over the year. "You don't make money on original plays," said Frederic DeFeis, the company's producer-director.
Still, when picking his roster of revivals, he gravitates toward the less familiar, like Edward Albee's "The Goat or Who is Sylvia?" and "The Cocktail Party" by T.S. Eliot, rather than going for standard commercial fare. This year, for the first time, the new plays he selected are by Long Islanders. "These were the quality," Mr. DeFeis said. "It wasn't that they were Long Island playwrights."
One of the chosen was Jack Canfora, an English teacher at Plainview-JFK HighSchool. His "Place Setting," written in 2001, was his first full-length play. It is about the unraveling of relationships among three couples and is on Arena's 240-seat main stage through Feb. 29. "Cowbirds," a dark comedy about an ornithologist, by D.T. Arcieri, a biology professor at Farmingdale State University, is at the 100-seat second stage through March 7. 
Mr. Canfora, 34, of Huntington, is an actor turned playwright. His first play, a one-act, won the American Theater of Actors' National One-Act Play Contest in 2001, and was performed in Iowa. Two other one-act plays he wrote were performed in Manhattan. "Cowbirds" is his first production on the Island. 
Like Mr. Blenn, Mr. Canfora has manufactured his own opportunities, staging readings of his plays in New York.
"Long Island is a bit of desert for original theater," Mr. Canfora said. "There is not much of a demand for it. Most of the audience seems more inclined to jump on a train and go to Manhattan."
Mr. Arcieri has tried before to get Mr. DeFeis to present his work, hand-delivering the scripts to him. 
"Generally he doesn't take it," said Mr. Arcieri, 48, of Blue Point. "He just rejects it. As a playwright you can get pretty used to rejection. "
Mr. Arcieri's first play, a 10-minute, one-act piece, was produced in 1986, when a student who was also president of Farmingdale's theater troupe liked it and put it on stage. Seven of Mr. Arcieri's 12 plays have since been produced in Florida, Los Angeles and Australia. A one-act play "Norman!" was included in a theater festival at Theater Three in Port Jefferson. 
The Broadhollow trio of theaters -- the Bayway Arts Center in East Islip, Studio Theater in Lindenhurst and Centre Stage at Molloy College in Rockville Centre -- juggles musicals, comedies and drama. Recent productions include "Noises Off" and " Cabaret." 
"Normally if we do an original piece, it doesn't do as well as an established piece," said Richard Dolce, artistic director of all three theaters.
Mr. Dolce blamed proximity to the city for the failure of new works to do well. "They have access to the greatest theatrical venues in the world," he said, referring to local audiences. 
Bayway and Centre Stage each have close to 300 seats, but the Studio Theater has only 138 seats and so there, Mr. Dolce has experimented with less familiar fare, like "Boy Gets Girl," a drama that played Off Broadway. Last summer, the theater presented a new musical, "Saturday Night at Grossingers," and the piece did well. 
"A theater is a business like any other business," Mr. Dolce said. "If you want to keep your doors open, you have to provide your audience with what you think they want to see." 
Some theaters are trying to find an audience for original works. Shortly after Stacy Dermont began writing short plays and monologues in 2001, she founded Women's Voices, Women's Lives, now known as the River Theater Company, based at the Vail-Leavitt Music Hall in Riverhead. "As the audience is an integral part of live theater, I needed a forum to share my work," Ms. Dermont said.
Last year, Ms. Dermont presented a program of four one-act plays by local playwrights in a small theater on the ground floor of the music hall. The 76-seat theater was half full. She also presented John Pielmeier's "Agnes of God," which she said did well.
But when the floor of the theater was renovated in August, the Vail-Leavitt board decided not to replace the seats, turning the space into a reception area for the opera hall upstairs. That space, Ms. Dermont said, is not as suitable for original drama. But she has not given up. In May, she will offer "Tell Me About It," a new piece by Lisa Reitman-Dobi of Water Mill, in the opera hall.
"Our audience has been steadily growing," Ms. Dermont said. "Long Island is absolutely ready for new theater."
A year ago, Marcalan Glassberg, a teacher, lawyer and struggling playwright, also decided to take matters into his own hands. He became executive director of the 60-seat Author's Playhouse, in Bay Shore, mostly to get his own work produced. His three-act play, "Mother's Day," is in the midst of a three-week run. 
"What we need as playwrights, the key is the critical review, the exposure," Mr. Glassberg said. 
Author's Playhouse was started in 1981 by Lester Schoen, an optometrist who wrote and produced more than 100 of his own plays on the small stage before recently retiring upstate. This year, 5 of the 15 plays on the schedule are new pieces by local playwrights. 
Unlike these other theaters, which are independent, Hofstra USA, a community theater based on the Uniondale campus, has the resources of the institution behind it. Although Bob Spiotto, artistic director, said he was open to new plays, his lineup is still mostly well-worn classics. Last year, though, he slipped two original works -- "Fair Liberty's Call: A Musical Story of Revolutionary America" by Pam Meadows of Port Washington and "Heaven Sent: The After-Life of Mark Twain" by Drew Keil of Lynbrook -- into the roster. 
"Playwrights are out there pounding the pavement to get their work heard and presented in some shape, way or form," Mr. Spiotto said. "They can't give up. If they give up, we will all lose."
For sheer volume and velocity, Mr. Blenn's record is among the most prolific of original playwriting on the Island. With his wacky characters, spitfire dialogue and provocative messages, he has built a fan base; the six plays he presented at the Brokerage in the past two years sold out, said Gary Smith, owner of the club.
"Original fits in nicely with what we are doing," Mr. Smith said. 
"Bloomer Pudding," Mr. Blenn's play opening at the Brokerage tomorrow, is a comedy about a Lloyd Harbor couple on the run from the Internal Revenue Service; it was originally staged in 1998 at the now-shuttered Purple Cow Playhouse in Hicksville.
Mr. Blenn, long a journalist for local entertainment guides before he began cranking out plays, said theaters compete against other diversions. "You have to hit the audience over the head with the art and reintroduce them to it regularly," said Mr. Blenn, whose day job is as a consultant at Five Towns College's Dix Hills Performing Arts Center. "The attention span out here is as long and as strong as the next exciting video game to come out." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A REHEARSAL of "Cowbirds," with Sarah Moore, left, and Annette Triquere. The play is by D.T. Arcieri, in background, a local playwright. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1); "You don't make money on original plays," said Frederic DeFeis, left, producer-director of Arena Players Repertory Company. John Blenn, above right, rehearsing his play "Bloomer Pudding" with Joanne Ciaramella, left, Michele Rizzo and John Leone at the Brokerage in Bellmore, where it will run for three nights beginning tomorrow. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); WRITERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%) Theater; Theater; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Arena Players Repertory Co; Brokerage Comedy Club (Bellmore, NY)

PERSON: Marcelle S Fischler; John Blenn; Frederic De Feis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



212 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: A Stampede of Cars With All-Wheel Drive 

BYLINE:  By CHERYL K. JENSEN

 BODY:
HAVING found a foul-weather friend in their four-wheel-drive sport utilities, Americans are gaining new choices in vehicles with enhanced winter traction. Beyond truck-based utilities, and apart from the more carlike S.U.V. pretenders known as crossovers, dozens of conventional passenger cars are now driven by all four wheels -- and more models are on the way.
 While a few all-wheel-drive cars are well established, especially those from Audi and Subaru, the new wave extends to mainstream family sedans like the Ford Five Hundred and Chrysler 300, and even to inexpensive subcompacts like the Suzuki Aerio. 
 Detroit, which has concentrated on four-wheel-drive trucks, is playing catch-up. In 2002, 9.9 percent of foreign-brand cars sold in the United States had all-wheel drive, according to J.D. Power & Associates, compared with only 1.4 percent for the Big Three. The firm expects 42 more all-wheel-drive cars in the next five years.
An advantage of all-wheel drive is better traction on slick roads, as the systems direct power from slipping wheels to those with traction -- formulas and methods vary. But some automakers use it to enhance the handling of high-performance cars.
Sophisticated electronics, often linked to existing antilock-brake and traction-control systems, have made conversions to all-wheel drive relatively simple and inexpensive. In the past, heavy mechanical systems stole space and added considerable weight.
All-wheel drive is generally defined as a system that remains continuously engaged, requiring no action from the driver. In contrast, four-wheel drive often requires the driver to push a button or pull a lever to switch out of two-wheel drive, and the systems in many trucks include a low gear range for extreme off-road conditions.
Among European automakers, Mercedes-Benz offers all-wheel drive on its three main lines of sedans and wagons. BMW makes it available on the 3 Series, and Volkswagen has extended the option to four-cylinder Passats. Volvo is putting an all-wheel-drive option on its small S40 sedan and V50 wagon, in addition to its S60 sedan, V70 wagon and S80 luxury car. Review, Page 4. 
Infiniti now offers an all-wheel-drive version of its G35 sport sedan. Lexus will add the feature to its 2006 GS line, due next year.
Automotive News, a trade publication, has reported that the next-generation Acura RL luxury sedan will have all-wheel drive when it arrives this fall. An Acura spokesman declined to comment.
Chevrolet has not announced an all-wheel-drive version of its Malibu Maxx extended sedan, but officials say privately that such an option is likely. G.M.'s Saab division will offer a small hatchback, the 9-2X, that is largely based on the Subaru Impreza.
In the minivan market, Toyota continues to offer all-wheel drive on its Sienna, but Chrysler is dropping the option from its minivans to make room for second- and third-row seats that fold into the floor. 
G.M. will continue to sell minivans with an all-wheel-drive option through 2004. But in September, the company will begin offering what it calls "crossover sport vans," which will use many of the same components but will look more like S.U.V.'s -- and will be available with all-wheel drive. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Infiniti G35; Ford Five Hundred; Suzuki Aerio LX; Mercedes offers 4Matic all-wheel drive on its three main lines of sedans and wagons. Chart: "Not S.U.V.'s or Pretend-to-Bes, but Regular Cars Offered With All-Wheel Drive" lists features and specifications for selected vehicles with all wheel drive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (65%) Automobiles

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: cheryl k jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



213 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1780 words

HEADLINE: A Boon for the Catskills, Or Something in the Water?; 
Construction of $250 Million Resort Could Pollute City's Reservoir, Critics Say

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: SHANDAKEN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Even now, almost 100 years later, people in these parts have not forgiven New York City for flooding some of the best Catskill Mountain flatlands so that New Yorkers could take their 15-minute showers. A few local residents have been known to relieve themselves right in New York City's reservoirs, just to get even.
 Though they still hold a grudge, many residents have recently turned to the city for help in one of the fiercest land disputes in the Catskills since, well, since the New York reservoirs were built. 
 Dean Gitter, an actor turned developer who came to these round-shouldered hills more than 30 years ago, plans to build a five-star resort here that he says will save the Catskills, a region that everyone agrees has seen better days. 
 Mr. Gitter envisions two championship-caliber 18-hole golf courses, one on each side of the Belleayre Mountain Ski Center, which is owned by the state. Clustered around each golf course would be a luxury hotel, time-share apartments, restaurants, swimming pools, spas and tennis courts, all built to what he says are strict environmental standards. 
 The $250 million year-round resort -- which is supported by most local officials and businessmen -- would draw thousands of visitors from the city, 120 miles away, Mr. Gitter says, just as the Catskills' legendary trout streams and misty landscapes drew them a century ago. 
 His opponents are afraid that putting such a huge development in the watershed of the nation's largest municipal water system would pollute the nearby Ashokan Reservoir. Those who came to the mountains for a vegan, Zen-infused, counterculture way of life fear that the project would destroy what they came to enjoy. With the development now reaching the critical stage of environmental review, some have sought the aid of an unfamiliar ally. "Many of us actually are glad that the city is here now," said Judith Wyman, chairwoman of the Friends of Catskill Park, which opposes the project. "City residents and most of the people here want the same thing -- we want clean water as much as they do and we don't want over-development any more than the city does." New York City also wants to avoid spending $6 billion for a monster filtration plant that the federal government has threatened to order built if the city cannot assure the purity of its upstate reservoirs. The surest way to avoid that cost is to make sure land in the 2,000-square-mile watershed is publicly owned and undeveloped, so New York has tried to purchase as much as possible of the 70 percent of the property still privately owned. 
 But the city hasn't always been so concerned with making friends in the Catskills. It once tried to impose watershed rules that severely limited how owners could use their property, but local communities, feeling their authority was being usurped and their hopes for economic development were being undermined, fought back. To avoid lawsuits, New York signed an agreement in 1997 to forgo condemnations and buy property or easements only from willing sellers. 
 The city also promised to upgrade local wastewater treatment plants. In exchange, local leaders got a commitment from the city to consider permitting developments that provided jobs but did not pollute the water.
 The city tried unsuccessfully to buy the land near Belleayre before Mr. Gitter could acquire it. Now it is in the delicate position of judging the environmental merits of his project.
 "If we are perceived as being pro-development or anti-development for whatever reason, it will jeopardize the integrity of the memorandum of agreement," said Christopher O. Ward, commissioner of the city's Department of Environmental Protection.
 At issue, everyone involved agrees, is not only the water drunk by 9 million people in New York City and environs, but the future of the Catskills. Mr. Gitter and his supporters say that their project, known as The Belleayre Resort at Catskill Park, can revive the region, which once offered grand hotels that served tourists attracted by the cooling summer breezes and the good fishing. Now lodging in Delaware and Ulster Counties has dwindled to a few hundred beds.
 The proposed resort, with 400 hotel rooms, five restaurants, a conference center, two spas, 351 time shares and 21 luxury homes on more than 500 acres, would generate more than 750 full- and part-time jobs, and millions in local and state taxes, the development group said.
 The principal architect, Emilio Ambasz, is known for his environmentally sensitive designs. He proposed a hotel that would be terraced into the mountainside, with grass and bushes planted on its roofs. The effluent from two new wastewater treatment plants would be recycled and used to irrigate the golf courses. 
 Opponents say the project will generate so much waste and traffic, and disturb so much soil, that there is no way to protect the water and the wilderness. In turn, Mr. Gitter says it is time for the 6,720-page environmental impact statement, and not emotion, to be the basis on which a decision is made. Mr. Gitter said he is ready to begin construction as soon as the project passes an environmental review. The state Department of Environmental Conservation is leading the review and will accept comments on the project until at least Feb. 24. The project requires approval of various local, state, federal and New York City authorities.
 "There's a lot of places easier to do a development in than New York State," said Emily H. Fisher , a member of the board of the American Museum of Natural History who has owned a second home in the Catskills for decades and who is a principal of Mr. Gitter's development group. "We're watched over by the city and the state so carefully that this development will not impact the quality of the city's water at all."
 Erich T. Griesser, a long-time resident who runs a lodge and is co-president of the Belleayre Region Lodging and Tourism Association, said he has listened to all the arguments, analyzed the concerns, and concluded that the project would help businesses without harming the environment. "The pluses are far greater than the minuses," Mr. Griesser said.
 But in the local newspapers, at roadside diners and during raucous public hearings, other residents have made it clear that they want the Sleepy Hollow feel of the Catskills to stay the way it is. 
 "This project is going to redefine Catskill Park, and I resent that, because this project is not what we're about," said Tom Alworth, executive director of the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development. 
 What is generally known as the Catskills is southwest of here in Sullivan County, just outside the blue line that surrounds the 705,000 public and privately owned acres of Catskill Park on maps. Artists and craftsmen have long sought ways to live inside the blue line, and today many still sacrifice high salaries and conveniences like cellphones for the serenity of truly dark nights where visible stars far outnumber car headlights. "This is our life and these are our mountains," said Alexander Linas, 22, of Mount Tremper. "We don't need this development." 
 Before a recent public hearing at a local school, Mr. Linas stood in single-digit temperatures holding a sign that read "Save the Catskills." When Mr. Gitter addressed the crowd of more than 600 people, he mentioned the sign. "Now the question is," the developer asked, "save from what?" 
 "From you," a voice replied. 
 Mr. Gitter was unruffled. "Those of us involved in this project think the Catskills must be saved from economic decline," Mr. Gitter said, amid boos and catcalls. "We're all interested in saving the Catskills and we have our own views about how to do that." 
 "Go home," shouted someone. 
 "This is my home sir," Mr. Gitter said. "This has been my home for 34 years."
 Mr. Gitter has served on the Shandaken planning board and various development committees, and he represented local communities in some negotiations of the agreement with New York City. He runs a lodge and retail center in Mount Tremper called Catskill Corners, along with the nearby Emerson Inn. 
 He also has been involved in several big projects outside the Catskills that were never built. In the late 1980's Mr. Gitter had plans for a $500 million China-United States trade center outside Stewart Airport in Newburgh. Local homeowners opposed it, and Mr. Gitter took his plans to Baltimore County, Maryland, but that project was scuttled too. 
 "What difference does that make?" Mr. Gitter said angrily when asked about those projects. "I've been here a long time and I've done a lot of credible things." 
 Mr. Gitter said several economic studies over the last 40 years have all concluded that year-round tourism is the best way to reinvigorate the Catskill economy. And he said the project has to be big to attract a major hotel chain and lenders willing to put up more than $150 million in financing. He said he also has to offset the cost of bringing in roads, water treatment plants and electric lines. 
 Environmentalists argue that steep slopes and thin soils here make building on hillsides too risky. They also say that falling back on big tourism projects is shortsighted. 
 "Even if, from an economic standpoint, this kind of project was justified 10 years ago, that's no longer the case," said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council. Mr. Goldstein said that technological advances like the Internet have made it possible for many local residents and transplanted New Yorkers to both live and work in hamlets like Mount Tremper, Phoenicia and Pine Hill.
 But one of the most forceful local voices against the development came from a member of the Chase family, a clan that has lived in these hills so long local people call the place they live Chase Mountain. 
 Sherret Spaulding Chase, 86, of Shokan, still seethes at "the painfully high cost to those displaced" by New York's reservoirs a century ago, but he challenged city officials to "bite the bullet, step up to their responsibilities, and say no," to Mr. Gitter's proposal by finding that it would irreparably harm the city's water supply. At the recent public hearing he suggested what only a short time ago would have been unthinkable. Mr. Chase proposed that New York City offer to buy Mr. Gitter's land, and if he refuses, take it through condemnation, much the way good bottomland was taken for reservoirs a century ago. 
 Pleading for city intervention might seem contradictory, given the region's lingering resentment, but Mr. Chase said it is just common sense. "If New York wasn't going to take care of the land," he said, "it never should have taken it." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A proposed resort would "redefine Catskill Park, and I resent that," says Tom Alworth, right, of the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development. Top, Dean Gitter, the developer, has lived in the area 34 years. Above, a model of the planned Belleayre Resort. (Photo by Emilio Ambasz and Associates); (Photographs by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. 25); At a Jan. 20 hearing at an Ulster County high school, most residents were opposed to plans by Dean Gitter, a developer, to build a resort nearby. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. 32) Map of New York State highlighting the area of the proposed development: New York City reservoirs flank the site of a planned resort. (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); RESORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); RIVERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); SKIING (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TENNIS (68%); SPORTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%) Water; Golf

PERSON: Anthony Depalma; Dean Gitter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (97%) UNITED STATES (98%) Catskill Mountains; Shandaken (NY); New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



214 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economic Policies Force Illegal Immigration 

 BODY:
When the United States government gives more than $10 billion in subsidies to corn growers, it encourages them to produce a surplus that is then dumped onto world markets at artificially low prices. This has enormous consequences on the domestic economies of third-world nations. 
 In Mexico, the price of corn has dropped 70 percent while production costs have risen. Mexico, where corn occupies half of the total land used for growing crops, has lost most of its farms over the last 10 years, bringing havoc to the rural economy, forcing mass migration to the cities, bringing ruin and unemployment. And it has spurred the mass migration of campesinos to El Norte. 
 In small town and large, in every community across America these economic refugees from American corporate greed stand on street corners to try to get a day's pay doing work that no one else will do. They are resented in many communities. People see the downsizing, the unemployment, the foreclosures, the homelessness and bankruptcy as not so very far from them and blame these immigrants.
This is the social and economic context of Farmingville, a community of ordinary middle class and working Americans reeling from the larger forces of international trade rigged to the advantage of the privileged and the wealthy.

MICHAEL O'NEILL
Wainscott

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); REFUGEES (86%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); FORECLOSURE (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); HOMELESSNESS (69%) Grain; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens

PERSON: Michael O'Neill

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



215 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Keeping Tight, if Numb, Grip on the Leash

BYLINE:  By Betsy Cummings

 BODY:
EACH day Danny DeLarosa readies for battle as he combats a frigid winter with a body armor of clothes. Three layers of socks (one thermal, two cotton) warm his feet so they do nto feel as if "they're going to fall off." Three pairs of pants - Lycra leggings, a layer of fleece and jeans - keep his legs from freezing. Four shirts, a hooded sweartshirt and a coat warm his chest against below-zero wind chills.
 
 "As long as I can keep my chest, throat and head warm," said Mr. DeLarosa, 27, manager of Walkee Doggie, a dog walking and sitting service in Manhattan, he has a fighting chance against the elements. Still, despite all his protection against the cold, including earmuffs, thermal boots and wool gloves, he sometimes loses the war.
 Like every New Yorker, Mr. DeLarosa is coping with a particularly rough winter. The National Weather Service said January's average temperature was just 24.7 degrees. But unlike the occupations of most of the city's 3.5 million workers, who suffer arctic conditions only dirng their commutes, his job, which pays $20 an hour, requires that he withstand and brutal cold and spend as many as seven hours a day outdoors.
 Workers like Mr. DeLarosa have their strategies for dealing with the cold. Messengers linger in lobbies when they drop off packages. Coffee cart vendors warm hands with portable heaters. A former traffic officer recalled chewing hot peppers to ward off bitter cold as he directed cars and people through Manhattan. But those tactics offer little comfort when a job involves trudging through snow - more than two feet above normal for the season so far - or eduring single-digit days, eight in January alone.
 Still, as Mr. DeLarosa has discovered, cold weather can mean opportunity as well. Since the start of this winter, business at Walkee Doggie has increased 25 percent, said Seth Edelstein, the company's owner, who carges hourly rates of $14 for a group walk fo three dogs and $25 for a walk with just one owner's dogs.
 Whether pepole who land jobs in an improving economy are suddently deciding to buy those $600 Labradors they have always wanted, or victims of job cuts are taking in four-legged companions for daily support, Mr. Edelstein can't say for sure. But "since Labor Day, our growth has been exceptional, as much as 30 percent," he said. "We've had more puppies in the last 6 months than the last 14 months." That, combined with slushy streets and low temperatures, has meant more business for his company.
 In addition, Mr. DeLarosa, who oversees the other dog walkers and schedules their rounds, said clients are asking that their dogs be walked more times per day or week than usual. A rise in winter travel, perhaps due to a better economy, is part of the reason. "People are less inclined to send their dogs off to a kennel if they do travel," Mr. Edelstein said, adding to the increase in sitting services. Itis too cold for many boarded dogs to play outside, and the thought of their pets confined to kennels is too much for some owners to bear. But even among those not booking vacations, many dog owners do not want the bother of walking their pets on a 10-degree Saturday morning.
 That's good for business, but it also means more challenges for Mr. DeLarosa. Recently, he slipped and fell to his knees trying to control a Weimaraner unable to get traction on an icy sidewalk.
 And his days are longer as well. His time spent with each dog may stretch by 15 minutes, adding up to two hours more per day, especially if he is battling with dogs to strap on coats and protective bootees. "Once the bootees are on it's no problem. But putting them on, it's no problem. But putting them on, it's a fight," said Mr. DeLarosa, referring to one 5.3-pound Shih Tzu, who puts up a fierce struggle daily against the $100 bootees and cashmere sweaters his owner insists he wear in such low temperatures.
 A dog who wins the bootee war still loses, however, since Mr. DeLarosa has to clean its paws of rock salt, which burns pads.
 Mr. DeLarosa relishes the refuge that subway rides from client to client give him against 21-mile-an-hour winds that burn and crack his hands. Still, even in the worst weather, he loves his job. "I love that I'm outside and no one's overseeing me." And even the most high-maintenance breeds are good company, he said. "I love dogs, period."

This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Danny DeLarosa, manager of a Manhattan dog walking service, says one way the cold makes his job tougher is the struggle to put bootees and coats on some clients' dogs. (Photograph by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); DOGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LAYOFFS (66%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%) Dogs; Weather

PERSON: Betsy Cummings; Danny DeLarosa

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004 



216 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Applause Won't Buy Many Buttons 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
A YEAR ago very few people had heard of Derek Lam. He didn't sell a single piece of clothing to stores after his first collection last February. He was still obscure when he staged a runway show in September in a downtown furniture store, but his colorful print dresses were in tune with the upbeat mood for this spring, and retailers and magazine editors formed a mini-stampede to him.
 In a make-believe world -- maybe a Hollywood fashion movie -- the 37-year-old Mr. Lam would now be a big success, living in the lap of luxury with white-coated serving men like Giorgio Armani's catering to his every whim. 
 Such is not the case. Even after $450,000 in sales last fall and flattering coverage in Vogue and other periodicals, he is still very much a struggling designer whose business runs in the red. This evening at 5, he will present his third collection, for fall 2004, at the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park, hoping to stand out among 100 other designers this week. He agreed to offer a rare glimpse into the precarious finances of a beginning designer with a newly minted label -- one who draws no salary, answers his own phone and worries about how much he spends in subway fare to the garment district. 
"If we're lucky we'll break even," he said. "Not with this show, but the one after that."
It all started in October 2002 with $380,000 -- not exactly a shoestring, but hardly a blank check. Mr. Lam contributed half, and half came from a business partner, Jan-Hendrik Schlottmann, an executive at Givaudan, a fragrance company in New York. "It was really all our savings." Mr. Lam said. "He sold some real estate, and both our families kicked in."
A graduate of the Parsons School of Design, Mr. Lam worked as an intern for Michael Kors, went to Hong Kong for several years to work as a designer for a clothing chain, then rejoined Mr. Kors's design team in New York. He then decided to break out on his own.
"I'm from San Francisco," he said. "My father used to import clothing from Hong Kong, and my mom worked for my father. My grandparents on my father's side had a factory in San Francisco. They were very supportive, especially my mother. I said, 'I'm ready to start,' and she said, 'We're with you 100 percent.' My parents were always entrepreneurial -- they believe that if you own your own business, you are your own boss and can succeed on your own terms."
Like many beginners, he worked from his home, using his one-bedroom Greenwich Village apartment as his studio. "My apartment was strewn with samples and papers and drawings," he recalled. "It was like a Rubik's Cube: when you moved one thing, you had to move everything else."
He and Mr. Schlottmann sought out Greg Mills, who owns a showroom in the garment district that represents a dozen designers too small to employ sales and marketing teams. "You could see he has it -- it was a gut instinct," Mr. Mills said. But the first presentation, in February 2003 -- 20 dresses, jackets, coats, tops and sweaters, which cost $60,000 to make -- was a disaster.
He showed it on hangers in Mr. Mills's showroom to avoid the expense of a runway spectacular. Mr. Mills invited buyers and editors, and Mr. Lam invited his own friends -- women in the cosmetics business, graphic designers, handbag designers, former colleagues and classmates, who happily bought his clothes, generally below wholesale.
But every store declined. The collection was "dark, heavy," Mr. Mills said. "It did have an attitude when you saw the silhouette. But -- I like to take a little credit for this -- I said: 'Derek, you've got to do colors. The magazines won't photograph black and burgundy.' "
"It was the nadir," Mr. Lam said. "The economy was still bad, and it was just before the Iraq war." Money from sales to acquaintances only partly offset the $60,000 for samples and other expenses. "We spent $70,000 and had nothing to show for it," he said. "I said to my partner, 'What are we doing?' But I didn't want to quit. I said: 'I'm going to do this next one. Can I do one more? Is there enough money?'
"Coming from Mr. Kors, I was used to spending. I just bought, spent, did what we did, assuming the sales would cover the costs. Now I had to assume the worst: nobody would buy it. But I said, Just go ahead and produce it. If nothing else, it could be my resume for a future job."
On Sept. 14, Mr. Lam held his first runway show with live models. As a newcomer, he had to show on a Sunday, a less popular day in Fashion Week. "But I knew Diane Von Furstenberg was showing the same day at 6, and we knew everyone would go to her show. So we said, 'Let's do it before her, very close to hers, and we'll have a captive audience.' "
Mr. Lam rented a vacant furniture store two blocks from Ms. Von Furstenberg's studio on West 12th Street. "I had packed the audience with friends," he recalled, "and when, at the end, I heard a roar, I thought it was just my friends. I didn't get a sense of the real reaction until after, when I was rolling the racks back to the studio and one editor shouted across the street, 'I loved the show!' The next day, the store buyers started calling. Some had already made appointments, but wanted to move them up."
All told, Mr. Lam wrote $450,000 in wholesale orders for 15 stores, including Barneys, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom. He sold them 80 of the show's biggest hit, a strapless cotton sundress with a carnation print that was widely photographed in the fashion press, a surefire catalyst for orders. At retail, the dress will sell for around $900. One is currently in a window at Kirna Zabete in SoHo.
Because retailers usually don't pay designers until 30 to 60 days after clothes are delivered, a newcomer has a problem coming up with enough cash to finance the manufacturing. "Everything I order -- the fabric, the zippers, the buttons -- is cash up front," Mr. Lam said.
But some of the retailers helped by paying more speedily, Mr. Schlottmann said. Department stores offered cash advances, and smaller boutiques paid on delivery. Mr. Schlottmann was surprised at how supportive some stores were. "I had heard they were really tough," he said, "but I suppose they will be tougher when we are bigger."
Suzanne Patneaude, Nordstrom's vice president for designer apparel, who bought Mr. Lam's designs, said that although she did not provide a cash advance, she "walked the invoice through," so that payment would go to him 10 to 15 days after the clothes were shipped. That is very unusual, she added, but "every single piece had a reason to be -- it was a well-edited collection."
Even with nearly half a million dollars in orders and the easy terms from some retailers, Mr. Lam and Mr. Schlottmann said their business is not yet profitable. They parted from Mr. Mills, on friendly terms, and brought in a marketing director, paid on commission. The cost of mounting the last show -- models, invitations, renting space -- came to $20,000, plus $85,000 to make the samples. They had to pay $200,000 for fabric, manufacturing, shipping and import duty, Mr. Schlottmann said.
The business has moved from Mr. Lam's apartment to a tiny brick-lined studio in a warehouse in the meatpacking district, where the rent is $3,000 a month. The copymachine and furniture still have to be paid for.
For his runway show this evening, he has budgeted about $60,000. And this time the impression that he is a comer has attracted some heavyweight sponorship: Vogue is contributing $5,000 to help with expenses, and Swarovski gave the crystal beading for the clothes and some money. Shiseido cosmetics, Maurice Villency furniture and Saga Furs are also sponsors, contributing money or products in exchange for the cachet of being associated with Mr. Lam.
Will he finally be able to make money if the show is a hit? "With this one?" he said. "No. Hopefully maybe by next fall we'll be in the black if we still keep the costs tight."
"I'm on the C train to the garment center about four times a day," he said. "And you should see the messenger bills -- I'm shocked. I'd carry the stuff myself to editors, to photographers, but I have to be five places at once. And we don't even have a decent phone system. I'll pick up the phone and say, 'Derek Lam,' and some editor will say, 'Oh, it's so cool you pick up your own phone.' But who else is going to do it?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: TIGHTENING UP -- Derek Lam, who presented his first runway show with models last fall, adjusts a style he will show this evening. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); NO SALARY, LOTS OF HOPE -- Derek Lam with a gold brocade camisole, top, he will show this evening. Above and left, styles from his spring 2004 collection, which will be in stores next week. (Photographs by Firstview.com); (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); FURNITURE STORES (72%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (68%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (61%) Apparel

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%) Derek Lam; Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



217 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Mark McAllister; 
Smith Barney Capital and Income Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MARK McALLISTER, manager of the $ 2.1 billion Smith Barney Capital and Income fund, sees opportunities in the energy and natural-gas sector. 
 "We think energy prices are likely to stay high for a while, and we don't think the earnings estimates reflect those higher prices," Mr. McAllister said from his office in Midtown Manhattan. 
 Energy stocks now account for 11.7 percent of the fund's assets, compared with a weighting of 5.8 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Two of the fund's top 10 holdings are American depository receipts of large integrated oil companies, BP of Britain and Total of France. 
The Class A shares of the fund returned 1.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years through December, adjusted for the maximum front-end load, or sales charge, of 5 percent. That puts the share class in the top 20 percent of moderate-allocation funds, which lost 0.6 percent a year, on average, during that time, according to Morningstar Inc.
The Class A shares returned 29.2 percent, also adjusted for the load, in the 12 months through December, compared with 21.4 percent for the group.
Mr. McAllister, 41, who has worked with the fund since November 1999, became co-manager in May 2002 and the lead manager in May 2003. He works for Smith Barney Fund Management, the fund's adviser, which is a subsidiary of Citigroup.
The fund can invest in stocks, bonds, convertible securities, A.D.R.'s, real estate investment trusts and derivative securities anywhere in the world. The prospectus does not limit the allocations to each asset class.
Mr. McAllister re-evaluates the fund's asset-allocation decisions monthly, taking into account his forecasts for the economy and investment markets. 
He personally selects about 25 percent of the total assets in the portfolio, including the REIT's and what he calls his "best ideas" portion of the fund's stocks and convertible securities. He supervises a team of managers who select the remainder of the portfolio. Most recently, common stocks and convertible securities accounted for 60 percent of total assets. An additional 26 percent was in bonds, mostly high-yield securities.
Mr. McAllister says he worries about the impact of potentially higher interest rates. "High-yield is the only place in fixed income that we've been able to find yield without taking on a lot of interest-rate risk," he said. The trailing 12-month yield for the Class A shares is 4.15 percent, versus 1.67 percent for the S.&P. 500.
To minimize credit risk, the high-yield stake is very diversified; individual securities typically account for no more than 2 percent of the portfolio.
Technology stocks account for just 9.2 percent of the fund's assets, compared with 17.7 percent in the S.&P. 500. He has been selling technology stocks because of high valuations, he said.
The fund's 12 sector analysts meet at 8:30 each morning to discuss economic and financial markets news, allocations and investment ideas. 
Mr. McAllister has been adding to the fund's position in Total of France. He started buying A.D.R.'s in February 2003, and has paid $74.19, on average, for the entire position. They now trade at $89.73. The company generates returns on invested capital that are close to those of Exxon Mobil, the industry leader, he said, and he expects production growth over the next several years to be about 5 percent annually. Yet the A.D.R.'s are trading at a 10 to 15 percent discount to the energy group based on the price-to-earnings ratio. "We think the stock price incorporates an oil-price assumption that's significantly below both the current spot price and our price forecast for the next 12 to 24 months," he said.
The fund has owned shares of Pfizer, the drug giant based in Manhattan, since October 2000. It added to its position last year, and its overall average cost has been $30.58 a share; the stock now trades at $38.85. The company's drug pipeline is deep and broad, Mr. McAllister said. The company is expected to file 14 applications for new drugs with the Food and Drug Administration in the next two years, he said, and will introduce at least four drugs that should each generate more than $1 billion in annual sales. Shares trade for less than 17 times projected 2004 earnings, versus a multiple of 19 for the S.&P. 500, he said, despite faster earnings growth and a higher dividend yield than the index.
AMONG high-yield bonds, the fund owns zero-coupon bonds issued by Charter Communications Holdings, the cable television company, and due in January 2010. The bonds yielded 23.7 percent when they were bought in January 2003 at $36.50, on average, for every $100 in face value. They now trade at $83. 
Bond valuations were depressed after the downturns in the technology and telecommunications industries, Mr. McAllister said, so Charter's bonds were valued attractively relative to the company's underlying cable assets. Recently, management has been improving the balance sheet, he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark McAllister sees strength in energy prices. Energy stocks account for 11.7 percent of his fund, twice their weight in the S. &P. 500. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) Chart: "Smith Barney Capital and Income" Category: Moderate allocationNet assets: $2.1 billionInception (Class A shares): October 1992Manager: Mark McAllister since May 2002Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 77%3-year annualized load-adjusted return through January(Class A shares): +1.7%Category average: -0.6% Sector breakdownOther: 32%Industrials: 8%Information technology: 9%Financials: 23%Health care: 16%Energy: 12% Fees (Class A shares)Front-end load: 5.00%Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.15% (Sources by Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITH BARNEY CAPITAL AND INCOME FUND ; Smith Barney Fund Management

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: MCALLISTER, MARK ; Mark McAllister; Carole Gould

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



218 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: That Big Fat Budget Deficit. Yawn. 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
DEMOCRATS grouse that President Bush has recklessly frittered away the surpluses of the 1990's. Foreign finance ministers plan to express their alarm about America's Brobdingnagian budget deficit at a Group of 7 meeting in Boca Raton, Fla., this weekend. Even a growing number of Republicans argue that Mr. Bush needs to stop making excuses and cut government spending. 
 So what is the reaction from the bond market vigilantes, those disciplinarians who bidup interest rates whenever past deficits started looming? Yawn. 
 Since Mr. Bush released his budget proposal on Monday, forecasting a $521 billion shortfall for the current fiscal year, the interest rate on 10-year Treasury notes has actually fallen slightly, closing on Friday at 4.08 percent. Since August, when the deficit estimate was $475 billion, the rate has dropped from about 4.4 percent. 
The bond market, it seems, has stopped worrying and learned to love the deficit. The question, of course, is whether everybody else can relax, too. 
There are some basic economic reasons for low rates, like an influx of foreign capital and the unevenness of the American economy, that have little to do with the deficit. But there also appear to be psychological reasons. Many economists say the bond vigilantes' muted reaction is both a symbol and a cause of the misplaced calm about the deficits, at least outside the Washington hothouse.
Most people old enough to vote or make investments can remember the 1980's, another time when the federal government spent more money than it had. Few people can think of any lasting harm those debts caused. So it may come as no surprise that only 2 percent of Americans named the deficit as the main issue they would like to hear candidates discuss in the 2004 presidential election, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. 
"Under Reagan in the 80's, I remember headlines day after day saying we were leveraging our children's future," said Lundy R. Wright, a managing director and top bond trader at Morgan Stanley. "But in good times, we got back to surpluses. I think the lesson is, you can borrow when times aren't so good and cyclical factors will help get you out of it."
N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, added: "It's very clear the bond market still has a lot of confidence in the U.S. economy. People basically trust the U.S. to do the right thing. People do not expect the deficits to persist."
Perhaps they won't. The economy could indeed outgrow these deficits over the next decade. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office, a nonpartisan research arm of Congress, is forecasting that surpluses will return in 2014.
But many economists also say the rapid fiscal swings of the last 20 years have created a false sense of security about deficits. That serenity may have been reinforced by a series of accounting decisions in Mr. Bush's new budget that mask the deficit's true size, according to budget analysts. 
THE absence of concern is all the more alarming now, given the enormous shortfalls in Social Security and Medicare that await in coming decades, economists say. "If the 80's deficit had gone away on its own, that would be one thing," said Benjamin M. Friedman, a Harvard economics professor. 
He noted that the long economic expansion of the 1980's did not bring down the national debt. Only after the first President Bush raised taxes, President Clinton raised them further and the Republican Congress of the mid-90's reduced spending growth did the deficit vanish. "And the people who took those tough actions didn't necessarily get rewarded for them," Mr. Friedman said. 
Before the first President Bush broke his "read my lips" vow and increased taxes, the Republicans had won three consecutive presidential elections; they have not won the popular vote since. The controversial 1993 federal budget, meanwhile, contributed to the Democrats' loss of control of the House of Representatives, which they had held since 1955.
Those political costs do tend to stick inpeople's minds, and they have made a budget reckoning all but unthinkable during an election year. Barring truly spectacular and surprising economic growth in coming years, though, the reckoning is likely to come eventually, even if there is little hint of it in today's bond market.
"The numbers are so huge and the hole so deep and the politics so difficult," said Robert E. Rubin, a Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, "I think there is only one way you get out of this: both revenue increases and spending discipline."
The bond market and its vigilantes once demanded such measures. If politicians did not obey, they quickly sold large piles of bonds, pushing interest rates higher and dampening economic growth.
They were acting in self-interest, out of a concern that the deficits would diminish the value of their holdings by flooding the marketplace with new government bonds. But the strategy pushed interest rates even higher, by further increasing the supply of bonds and forcing issuers to offer still higher rates.
Edward E. Yardeni, an economist who was working at Prudential-Bache Securities, is widely credited with inventing the term "bond vigilantes" back when the Reagan deficits were growing in the 1980's. Interest rates generally fell during the decade but spiked occasionally and remained far higher than they were in the 50's and 60's.
By the 90's, vigilantes like Stanley F. Druckenmiller, then of Soros Fund Management, and Louis Moore Bacon of Moore Capital Management reached the peak of their power. 
As a White House adviser, Mr. Rubin, a former bond trader himself, helped persuade Mr. Clinton that cutting the deficit would sate the bond market. As news of his budget plans spread in 1993, the interest rate on the 10-year bond fell to a 22-year low. 
James Carville, a political adviser to Mr. Clinton, joked at the time that he had once wanted to be reincarnated as the pope or a baseball player with a .400 batting average, but decided instead that he should return as the bond market and intimidate everybody.
No one seems afraid anymore. "There's a much different attitude in the market now toward the deficit," said David J. Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley. "There is no one clamoring for action."
In part, other dynamics have kept interest rates low enough to steady the uneven economic recovery. Foreign money, much of it from Asian governments trying to prop up the dollar's value and keep their exports inexpensive, is flowing into the United States. That has allowed bonds to find buyers, even at low rates. Then there is the still-weak American job market, which has forced the Federal Reserve to leave its benchmark short-term interest rate at the lowest level in almost 50 years, keeping a lid on long-term rates.
But optimism has been a big factor, too. Over the last two decades, many people have become convinced that budget deficits are not a problem because the federal government will not let them become one. "In theory, deficits can't last forever," said Woody Jay, a managing director for government securities at Lehman Brothers. "I think the market probably believes some positive work will be done on the deficit."
White House officials say they have started that work by holding the line on spending outside Social Security, Medicare, the military and domestic security. Mr. Bush has proposed the elimination of some school programs and cuts in some financing for police and fire departments, the Federal Aviation Administration and the Internal Revenue Service.
"We're willing to make the tough choices to get the deficit down," Mr. Mankiw, of the economic advisers council, said. "The interesting question is whether Congress will go along."
Even if Congress adds no new spending, however, the long-term deficit seems larger than the White House's official numbers suggest. The current proposal includes no spending for the military activities in Iraq beyond Sept. 30. It excludes, among other items, a $65 billion tax credit for uninsured people to buy catastrophic health insurance over the next decade. And it looks just five years ahead, ignoring most of the cost of making last year's tax cut permanent, as Mr. Bush advocates.
TODAY'S deficits also prevent the government from socking away the so-called Social Security surplus for the day when the payroll tax will no longer cover the payments to retirees. As the baby boomers begin turning 65 in 2011, they will make increasing demands on the federal budget.
Those fiscal time bombs make most economists confident that budget cuts or tax increases will eventually be necessary - or the bond vigilantes will start to become restless again. Any number of developments, from a healthy pickup in the economy to a newfound conviction that the deficits are not going away, could nudge up interest rates. In fact, they could rise as soon as Monday if the Group of 7 ministers suggest this weekend that the dollar has fallen enough and Asian central banks then slow their purchases of American bonds. 
"A lot of people are looking to the G-7 meeting for an indication," Mr. Wright, the Morgan Stanley bond trader, said.
Absent such news, though, interest rates are unlikely to move sharply anytime soon. A deficit alone does not necessary lead to higher interest rates, most economists say, but is merely one factor among many. For now, it remains the kind of long-term issue that holds little sway with bond traders. "The people who put money to risk really do it with a five-year time horizon," Mr. Wright said.
Stan Jonas, managing director at Fimat USA, a New York brokerage firm, added: "There's a lot of talk that the deficit is going to balloon in 2020. O.K., I agree."
But, he said, "any bet I make about what's going to happen to the deficit in 20 years, I'm not going to be around to collect."
On top of that, the vigilantes may have personal reasons for viewing today's deficits differently from yesterday's.
"The bond vigilantes are getting older," Mr. Jonas said. "They're the ones who benefit from the deficit. It's their kids' problem."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The National Debt Clock in Midtown Manhattan was put up as a political message in the 1980's. It was turned off in 2000 as the government ran surpluses, and restarted in 2002. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Joshua B. Bolten, director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, speaking last week about the president's budget plan for 2005. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. 10) Chart: "So Much for Basic Economic Theory"Though federal budget deficits have grown in recent years, interest rates have fallen. Graph tracks the surplus or deficit as percentage of gross domestic product from 1992 to 2004 estimates. Federal fiscal years (October to September) Graph tracks the yield on 10-year treasury notes since 1992. Monthly figures, grouped by federal fiscal years instead of calendar years (Sources by Office of Management and Budget; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W ; David Leonhardt; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



219 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Making the Facts Fit the Case for War 

BYLINE:  By Richard Goodwin; Richard Goodwin was a White House assistant to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson.

DATELINE: CONCORD, Mass. 

 BODY:
In 1846 President James Polk announced that Mexican troops had fired on American soldiers on American soil, and he took the country to a war that eventually gained it California, New Mexico and Arizona. Was the disputed soil ours? Probably not. Did Polk distort the information he had? Almost certainly. He wanted the territory, and he needed a war to get it. 
 A first-term representative warned that if you "allow the president to invade a neighboring nation whenever he shall deem it necessary to repel an invasion . . . you allow him to make war at pleasure." For these words, Abraham Lincoln received the usual reward of political courage: he forfeited any chance of a return to Congress and was retired to private life for more than a decade. (Although he would do quite well after that.) 
 Our current dispute over the intelligence that led to the invasion of Iraq seems to be yet another illustration of this eternal principle: presidents and other decision makers usually get the intelligence they want. This doesn't mean that intelligence reports should be ignored, but that they must be viewed with skepticism. And in my years in government service, I had the misfortune to see desire win out over skepticism too many times. 
In 1961, when I was 28 and fresh to the Kennedy White House from the campaign trail, I climbed to the upper reaches of the State Department for a high-level meeting to discuss the planned invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs. Almost every top official involved in the operation, except for the president, was there. Richard Bissell, a legendary figure of cold war intelligence, the man responsible for the U-2 spy plane, assured us that once the American-backed rebels had established themselves, the Cuban people would rise up against Castro. Rather tentatively, I asked Bissell how we had reached this conclusion. He calmly turned to the general sitting beside him and said, rather casually, "We have an N.I.E. on that, don't we?" referring to a classified National Intelligence Estimate. The general nodded. 
In fact, no such intelligence estimate existed. But Bissell's primary interest in intelligence data was that it help him get presidential approval of an operation to which he had devoted so much energy. Perhaps, having received so many assurances from Cuban exiles, he truly believed the claim. But he was wrong and John F. Kennedy was wrong to trust him -- and the disaster that unfolded on the Cuban shore in April was the result. 
To his credit, President Kennedy learned from the debacle. He reorganized his intelligence apparatus and brought advisers whose instincts and moral compasses he trusted -- including his brother Bobby -- into the inner circle of foreign policy deliberation. Most important, the lesson that intelligence and military advisers had to be thoroughly challenged guided Kennedy as he later steered the country through the Cuban missile crisis.
Unfortunately, this lesson was largely lost on the next administration. In 1965, the duly elected but deposed president of the Dominican Republic, Juan Bosch, was leading a revolution against the military cabal that had displaced him. A panicky telegram from our ambassador detailing (largely imaginary) horrors in Santo Domingo's streets led Lyndon B. Johnson to send in the Marines. 
With our troops already in the air, Johnson called a White House meeting to explain the decision he had already made. Gathered in the Cabinet Room, we were told by William Raborn, the incoming head of the C.I.A., that Communists had infiltrated, perhaps even dominated, the Bosch insurgency. That belief, not any supposed bloodshed, was of course the real reason for Johnson's intervention.
After the meeting, Bill Moyers, also a Johnson aide, and I met privately with some C.I.A. staff members. "Who were these Communists," we asked, "and how do we know?" We were given incredibly flimsy evidence, such as that one Bosch confederate had been seen in an apartment building suspected of housing a Communist cell. It proved nothing. Yet 20,000 marines had been sent to forestall this enemy whose very existence was suspect.
The crisis ended relatively peacefully, but not before a storm of criticism -- from the public, the press and Congress -- descended on the president, bringing his "honeymoon" to an abrupt end. Unlike Kennedy, Johnson made no change to the intelligence system that had misled us.
After I resigned from the White House, in 1967, I was asked by the Pentagon to attend a meeting to assess our Vietnam intelligence. The group consisted of several Nobel laureate scientists and a few others including the political scientist Richard Neustadt and the economist John Kenneth Galbraith. What concerned us were the military's "body count" figures of how many we had killed and also the "infiltration rate" statistics on the flow of men and supplies from North Vietnam to the South. When we looked behind the comforting figures, it was clear that the method of calculating them was prone to enormous error. The same bodies were counted by different units, and often just guessed at. The infiltration rate was based on the observations of spies along the Ho Chi Minh trail, who often concealed themselves in the nearby jungle to evade death or capture, and therefore had no idea what was contained in the covered trucks rolling by. 
We concluded that the figures the government triumphantly publicized to justify its claims of success could have been off by 10 percent or by 300 percent because "the data is so soft that we cannot state with confidence whether we have been doing better or worse militarily over the past year." These conclusions were ignored. The generals and the president wanted higher body counts and lower infiltration numbers. And that's what they got.
Those now trying to figure out what went wrong before the war in Iraq should bear in mind a simple truth: we are more likely to "know" what we want to know than what we don't want to know. That human flaw is built into the very process of making intelligence estimates. Perhaps the only way to counter it is if those who make the final decision beware taking a large risk on what is, inevitably, speculation. As Kennedy told the National Security Council in the days after the Bay of Pigs, "we're not going to have any search for scapegoats . . . the final responsibilities of any failure is mine, and mine alone." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (88%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); ESPIONAGE (68%); TERRORISM (59%) Intelligence Services; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (89%) Richard Goodwin; John Fitzgerald (1917-63) Kennedy; Lyndon Baines (1908-73) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MEXICO (90%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



220 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: A Success Worth Noting in Iraq 

 BODY:
The Bush administration offered two reasons to wage unilateral war in Iraq -- Saddam Hussein was stockpiling vast quantities of weapons, and efforts to contain him through sanctions and inspections were hopeless. The more time passes, the more it appears that both arguments were wrong. Not only are the weapons probably not there, but a decade of international import restrictions, United Nations arms inspections and United States military deterrence look far more effective than once thought. That is a crucial lesson for Americans to digest at a time when other countries dream of building biological, chemical and nuclear weapons and when the risks of waging preventive war on the basis of faulty intelligence have become so starkly evident. 
 In response to Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait and its defeat the next year by an American-led military coalition, the United Nations Security Council imposed oil export restrictions, a ban on the import of weapons and potential weapons ingredients, and a series of disarmament requirements to be monitored by aggressive international inspections. 
 None of the measures worked exactly as intended. All were met with Iraqi deceptions and resistance. Oil export sanctions were evaded with increasing success. United Nations inspectors were repeatedly obstructed and often felt threatened. They were withdrawn in advance of American bombing strikes in 1998, and not permitted to return until 2002. Yet the totality of these measures, particularly the prohibitions on importing weapons and their ingredients, now appears to have worked surprisingly well, apparently persuading Mr. Hussein that he would never be able to rebuild his weapons programs so long as sanctions remained in effect. That was exactly the message Washington wanted to send. 
The most crucial sanction banned the import of all prohibited weapons and of any ingredient that could conceivably be used to make them, including many items that also had consumer and medical uses. To reinforce this arms embargo, Iraqi oil exports were initially banned. Then, under the oil-for-food program, oil revenues were channeled through a United Nations bank account, so that Saddam Hussein could not use them to purchase prohibited weapons material on the black market. 
Oil export restrictions became increasingly porous over the years, and American authorities are now investigating some of the companies and individuals that may have helped Iraq bypass these sanctions. By 2001, Baghdad was collecting as much as $1 billion a year in illicit oil revenues, money that many feared Mr. Hussein could have used to import prohibited weapons ingredients. It now seems clear that he did not, most likely because he could not. Potential sellers did not want to be caught breaking the arms embargo. Instead, illicit oil money most likely went to build palaces, pay security officials and the Republican Guard, and fatten the Hussein family's foreign bank accounts.
The caseof Libya also illustrates the effectiveness of sanctions. Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's renunciation of his weapons programs was not simply -- perhaps not even principally -- a reaction to the American invasion of Iraq. It came in response to years of painful economic pressure through sanctions, along with diplomatic assurances that changed Libyan behavior could bring relief. President Bush emphasized this point after Libya announced its decision, telling other pariah countries that they too could rejoin the world economy and international community if they gave up their unconventional weapons programs. Clearly spelling out the steps needed to win relief from sanctions can motivate at least some countries to change their offending behavior. 
Sanctions are hardly a perfect tool. They hurt innocent civilians, require broad international enforcement and work best when backed up by effective inspection arrangements. But under the right conditions, they offer American administrations an effective alternative to military force, which, it is now clearer than ever, should be employed only as a last resort. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); ARMS EMBARGOES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); TERRORISM (65%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%) Editorials; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Intelligence Services

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



221 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3426 words

HEADLINE: In Atlantic City, A Time to See And Raise Them 

BYLINE:  By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
THE setting sun is mocking the hardy few taking in the Boardwalk on one of the coldest days of a cold winter. The sky to the southwest is streaked with a fiery orange, but everything else is gray, a bleak midwinter's landscape. Young men dressed as if they are headed for the Russian front wipe their noses as they stand on the Boardwalk by their pushcarts, waiting for customers to emerge from the warmth of one casino looking to be wheeled to another. The men will make little money today. 
 On the corner of Pacific and Iowa Avenues, steel barricades direct traffic around a disaster site. Three months ago, a parking deck under construction at the Tropicana Casino collapsed without warning, killing 4 workers and injuring 20 others as one floor collapsed into another, and then into another, and into another. For now, the accident remains under investigation, so the skeletal remains -- broken slabs of concrete and exposed tangles of steel -- sit untouched and visible from the Boardwalk a block away. 
 The parking deck was an important part of a $245 million expansion project at the Tropicana. But for the now the garage is in ruins, casting a jagged shadow on a new tower intended to add rooms and retail space to one of the original casino hotels. 
If this is not precisely a winter of discontent in Atlantic City, it is at least a season for reflection. Winter down the shore is slow; buses carrying white-haired slots players to the cavernous casinos are not so ubiquitous, the gambling floors are quiet, and dealers stand idly behind blackjack tables. The Boardwalk shops are closed except for a smattering of psychics and palm readers in their velvet salons. Loudspeakers play calypso music to small clutches of strollers wearing earmuffs. 
In some ways, the respite provided by this bitter winter comes at an opportune time, for it has been a tumultuous several months for Atlantic City. 
Last year, the city celebrated the opening of its first new casino in 13 years, the $1.1-billion Borgata, the beginning of Atlantic City's second wave of gambling-driven investment and the inspiration for hundreds of millions of dollars in expansion projects at other casinos and hotels. The Atlantic City Tourist and Visitors Bureau even rolled out a questionable new marketing theme -- "Always Turned On" -- to underscore the expansion and to attract a new, younger crowd. And the number of passengers using the much-maligned Atlantic City International Airport went over the million-passenger mark for the first time since 1998. 
"The Borgata raised the stakes, and everybody upped the ante, and for the first time in years, there's a real flow of investment in the city," said Bryant Simon, a history professor at the University of Georgia and a native of South Jersey who is writing a book about Atlantic City. 
If the story of 2003 ended there, with the Borgata redefining the Atlantic City experience and other casinos investing millions in new hotel towers and retail space and tourists arriving on airplanes instead of buses, casino owners would be spending these winter weeks counting profits and preparing for tomorrow's sunshine. 
But the year also brought a noisy political rift between the casinos and Governor McGreevey over the imposition of a 7.5 percent tax on net profits; an untidy shake-up at the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, the agency that divvies up millions of dollars in casino profits and sends them off to one of New Jersey's many blighted urban areas; about a 3.5 percent decline in annual revenue among casinos not namedBorgata; layoffs and huge debt in the Trump gambling empire; and the widening specter of competition from New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland. 
Even the Boardwalk's signature event, the annual Miss America competition, is in disarray. The pageant recently hired its fifth executive director in five years amid recurring concerns that the contest is a dying vestige of a vanished era.
Yet in the face of such adversity, this time-worn resort once again turned its cheek. The city cheerfully commemorated the 25th anniversary of its reinvention as a gambling resort last year, and the big event on this year's civic calendar is the 150th anniversary of the city's founding. 
By looking back, the city and the gambling industry hope to look forward to a more vibrant future. Summer festivities are planned along a Boardwalk that is again the focus of development. In addition to the work at the Tropicana, the Showboat is basking in last spring's opening of a 544-room tower, and Caesar's plans to unveil a new retail, dining and entertainment complex next year. Resorts -- the first casino hotel to open in 1978 -- is adding rooms, and the Borgata, not even open a year, last week announced plans for a 500,000-square-foot expansion of retail and casino space. 
And on the contentious political front, the governor and the casino industry are making nice with each other. Mr. McGreevey recently invited more than a dozen gaming analysts -- whose good opinion of the industry's finances and future is all-important -- to join him and other administration officials for dinner at Drumthwacket, the governor's mansion in Princeton. 
Atlantic City's boosters will tell you that every aging institution should be so vital. 
"Essentially Atlantic City is evolving," said Michael Pollock, publisher of the Gaming Industry Observer, a trade journal. "Companies recognize that in order to make their properties competitive, they have to invest in building more hotel rooms and better attractions."
The question is whether those investments will provide a proper defense as a pincer movement of competition closes around the city. At stake is the city's claim on the loyalties of about 35 million visitors who pour into the casinos and hotels every year spending, or losing, enough money to employ 45,000 people. 
The challenges from neighboring states have gone from unlikely to inevitable over the last several years as politicians have grappled with shrinking tax revenue and looked enviously at the crowded buses emblazoned with the words "Atlantic City." Gov. George E. Pataki of New York recently expanded his proposal for video lottery terminals -- slot machines by another name -- to include not just the state's racetracks but eight stand-alone gambling facilities. The first racetrack casino -- or racino, as they have been dubbed -- opened in late January at Saratoga Raceway, a harness track.
And as recently as the day after Mr. McGreevey reassured gambling analysts that he had no unpleasant surprises awaiting the casino industry, Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania unveiled his latest proposal to expand gambling in his state. Under the Rendell plan, similar to Mr. Pataki's, tens of thousands of video lottery terminals would be installed at Pennsylvania's eight racetracks and at four betting parlors, a move he hopes will generate enough revenue to slash property taxes. So far, the Pennsylvania Assembly has refused to go along.
Nor is the threat of video lottery terminals coming only from beyond the state's borders. In recent weeks there has been renewed talk among politicians in North Jersey of installing terminals in the state's racetracks. While politicians from South Jersey have vowed to fight off the threat, the Senate majority leader, Richard J. Codey of northern Essex County, is the most prominent supporter of such a venture. The casino industry estimates that video lottery terminals scattered around New Jersey would deprive Atlantic City of more than a half-billion dollars in annual revenue and result in the loss of about 12,000 jobs there.
But it is not just racinos that threaten to cut into Atlantic City's already diminished hegemony. The prospect of Indian-run casinos in the Catskill Mountains has gone from a frightening nightmare to a near certainty. Indeed, Caesar's -- which operates three casinos in Atlantic City -- signed an agreement with the St. Regis Mohawks late last year to develop a $500 million casino in Sullivan County. And other Indian-run casinos in New York's famed borsht belt -- a resort suffering the same faded fate that Atlantic has tried to ward off -- are in the works. 
"The noose," one gambling industry source said, "is tightening."
The arrangement between Caesar's and the Mohawk tribe suggests just how far removed Atlantic City is from the days when it had a monopoly on East Coast gambling. Many of the state's political leaders and some gambling industry figures feel obliged -- if only by tradition -- to fight competition. Governor McGreevey recently announced his opposition to a proposed casino riverboat on the Delaware River, and Donald Trump lobbied Albany several years ago to block gambling legislation in New York. But the owners of most casinos and others interested in the future of Atlantic City are no longer so territorial about what seems to be inevitable. They can't afford to be. 
"We wanted to actively oppose some of what was being proposed in the Catskills," said Micah Rasmussen, a spokesman for Governor McGreevey. "But then we found that some of the players in Atlantic City were reluctant to do that because they had interests in the area."
Many in the gambling industry contend that growth is inevitable, and that those who choose to fight expansion are ignoring reality. "You can't dig a moat; you can't build a wall," said one gambling insider. "And you can't stick your head in the sand and pretend the competition is going to go away."
Faced with the mounting prospect of competition, Atlantic City is trying to weather the latest storm by transforming itself from a glimmery rest stop -- a place to play the slots for a few hours, eat a buffet dinner and jump on a bus back home -- to a true holiday destination. The Borgata is the template for this new vision of Atlantic City, a luxurious, Las Vegas-style resort with spas, upscale shopping, 11 restaurants, a hip nightclub and a gambling floor designed to appeal to high rollers. 
"This market has an opportunity to define itself as a regional destination," said Larry Mullin, executive vice president of the Borgata. "It's all about the perception of this market."
Or as Robert Stewart, a spokesman for Caesar's Entertainment, which owns three casinos here, put it, "We believe the best way to ensure the continued prosperity of the gaming industry in New Jersey is to create a unique destination in Atlantic City, and that's what we've spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to do."
To that end, Mr. Stewart's company has sponsored concerts featuring entertainers like Paul McCartney and Simon and Garfunkle in the new Convention Hall in an effort to bring nongamblers to the city and, perhaps, inspire them to play a few hands as long as they are in town.
"Atlantic City wants to get more money out tourists," said Professor Simon, noting that Las Vegas gets about 50 percent of its revenue from nongambling activities. Atlantic City, by contrast, relies on gambling for about 80 percent of its revenue, according to Mr. Stewart. 
It is an aggressive and costly strategy, but Atlantic City insiders concede that the casinos have little choice, since the small-time gamblers who park themselves in front of slot machines account for 75 percent of their revenue. Before long, they will be able to try their luck closer to home in a racino or in a video gambling parlor. 
The way Mr. Mullin of the Borgata sees it, those people will regard racinos and slots parlors "as something of a convenience market, like a 7-Eleven," while Atlantic City "will be offering the complete package" - atmosphere, entertainment, shopping and other amenities.
Some falloff seems inevitable, but Mr. Pollock does not think disaster will ensue. "The casinos can replace what they lose at the low end and move upscale, attracting more affluent people," he said. "They might not come for the gaming, but if they pay for a hotel room and for dinner and then gamble a little, they will be profitable customers."
But even as the Borgata made its debut last July, gaming analysts and industry insiders had one question: Would this approach create a new market for the city or simply lure customers from other casinos? Most observers say it is too early to tell, although statistics suggest that the Borgata is cannibalizing rather than creating. 
Most of the 2.4 percent increase in gambling revenue here last year could be attributed to the much-ballyhooed opening of the Borgata. While the Casino Control Commission did not attribute the small increase to anything in particular -- the agency just reports the numbers -- it is obvious that with the other casinos showing a decline in revenue, the Borgata made the difference. In fact, of the 11 other casinos, 9 showed a drop, with some of the declines in double digits.
What's more, lurking on the horizon is the never-ending drama associated with Mr. Trump's three struggling properties -- the Taj Mahal, the Trump Plaza and the Trump Marina. Analysts expect Mr. Trump to refinance the $1.3 billion debt he owes on the Taj Mahal and the Trump Plaza, just as he refinanced about a half-billion dollars in debt on the Trump Marina last spring. 
Simply servicing the huge debt on the Taj Mahal and Trump Plaza costs $74 million every six months, with the next payment due in late spring. As currently structured, the note matures in 2006. For now, analysts are watching warily as the Trump empire scrambles to make its interest payments. Standard & Poor's downgraded its rating of the Taj Mahal and Plaza debt late last year, making it even more expensive for Mr. Trump to borrow. Mr. Trump has dug himself out of his share of financial holes in his life -- as he will happily point out -- but this one has Atlantic City insiders more anxious than usual.
In the meantime, as the landscape changes to accommodate the new vision of Atlantic City, so do some long-standing power arrangements in this city of day-trippers, double-digit unemployment and neighborhoods in plain view of the Boardwalk that are still struggling to survive.
Over coffee and two bananas at Perry's Cafe on Pacific Avenue on a recent day, State Senator William L. Gormley -- the powerful and mercurial Republican who has been representing Atlantic County in Trenton for 27 years -- was holding courton the subject of what is beyond Atlantic Avenue. 
"The hospitality industry is providing thousands of people in this city with their first chance to participate in the American dream," Mr. Gormley said as he tried to carry on conversations with several other diners. "These are jobs that are unionized, that provide health benefits and give people a chance to move up in the industry, or move up and then move on. Where else are some of these people, many of them immigrants, going to get that opportunity?"
The 57-year-old senator has been Atlantic City's most-formidable champion in the State Legislature, a savvy political operator who during the administration of Gov. Christie Whitman held extraordinary power over the hundreds of millions of dollars raised and disbursed each year by the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority (CRDA). With an ally, James Kennedy, as the agency's executive director, Mr. Gormley had effective control over a teeming pot of money used to finance projects ranging from housing developments in the state's troubled cities to infrastructure improvements in and around Atlantic City. 
But last year Governor McGreevey, a Democrat, began making his move to put his own person in charge of the authority. In the aftermath of the new tax -- on top of the 1.25 percent tax on the casinos' gross revenue that already goes to the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority -- which Senator Gormley fought bitterly but in vain, the governor then pushed out Mr. Kennedy, who in September left for a job at nearby Richard Stockton College.
"Because of the timing, it looked like McGreevey was punishing Gormley," said one Atlantic City insider. "But, in fact, this battle was inevitable. It had nothing to do with the tax war. The governor wanted his person at CRDA (pronounced CREED-ah), not Gormley's. CRDA represents a big pot of money, and the governor wants to control it."
On Friday, Governor McGreevey announced his choice to succeed Mr. Kennedy -- Curtis J. Bashaw, a Cape May real estate developer. In making the announcement, the governor praised Mr. Bashaw's "strong ability to successfully manage redevelopment projects."
Mr. Bashaw's name was floated late last year, to the surprise of some Atlantic City hands, who noted that he had no background in either state politics or the casino industry. But Mr. Bashaw --the son of the Rev. Carl McIntyre and the holder of an M.B.A. from the Wharton School -- is not without accomplishment in South Jersey. He took Congress Hall, a decrepit landmark hotel where years ago his father had preached fire and brimstone, and turned it into a chic new presence amid Cape May's abundance of Victoriana. He also has redeveloped several other sites in Cape May.
Privately, several Atlantic City observers say Mr. Bashaw is a good choice precisely because he has few apparent ties to the redevelopment agency. And as a founder of the Cape May Jazz Festival and Cape May Music Festival, he also has a resume that fits with the city's new emphasis on non-gambling attractions. 
Mr. Bashaw's appointment can only be taken as a sign that the McGreevey administration plans to be more hands-on in Atlantic City. During his private dinner with gaming analysts at Drumthwacket last month, the governor is reported to have told them he planned significant -- though unspecified -- changes at CRDA. Indeed, in a prepared statement accompanying Mr. Bashaw's appointment, he spoke of "CRDA's need for financial focus." 
Mr. Bashaw's nomination must win approval from the agency's board, although that is considered a formality.
Certainly there is no mistaking the sense that an era at the powerful agency is gone. Mr. Gormley has not only lost his ally at the agency, but he himself, once chairman of the powerful Judiciary Committee before the Democrats won control of the Senate in November, is now in the minority. As wily as he is -- Mr. Gormley is legendary for breaking ranks to work with Democratic governors -- many political observers say his power over casino policy and economic development has also been diminished at the hands of the governor.
Still, the senator's enthusiasm remains intact. While others see a virtual tale of two cities as they venture beyond Atlantic Avenue here, where the neon fades and the visitors are few, Mr. Gormley is certain that he sees a version of the American dream under way.
"If you examine the multicultural experience that Atlantic City has become, you see that the city is a microcosm of America," he said. "People are taking their first steps up the economic ladder here." 
Mr. Gormley is quick to point out that through the redevelopment agency, thousands of houses and several new schools now brighten the uneven urban landscape. "People can see that the core infrastructure is being rebuilt," he said. "Now we have the opportunity to compound the rebirth of Atlantic City. Now it's time to add rooms and to add retail space so that the city can become a destination."
Skeptics respond that the city's supporters are fooling themselves, and perhaps making disastrous investment decisions, if they believe Atlantic City will be able to draw people here the way Las Vegas does. Yes, the city may have an underutilized beach and a famous Boardwalk, they concede, but try using either one in November, never mind February. And then there is the city itself. Some observers insist that restoring its reputation will require more than a new motto and even the prospect of another new casino, which MGM Mirage may build near the Borgata.
"The initial promise of gambling in Atlantic City was that it would be a unique experience in urban renewal," said Professor Simon, whose book, "Boardwalk of Dreams: Atlantic City and the Fate of Urban America," will be published in June by Oxford University Press. "But that hasn't worked. The city has to be a place to live and a place to work, and you can argue that the city is worse off in that regard. There wasn't a supermarket in the city until two years ago. The casinos are like 12 self-contained spaceships - people eat there, shop there, sleep there. None of the riches trickle down into the neighborhoods."
The question is whether those spaceships can be retooled for a new, and perhaps hazardous, journey.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The skeletal remains of the Tropicana parking garage, whose collapse is still under investigation, casts a shadow over Atlantic City. The surge in construction was touched off by the opening of the Borgata, inset, last summer. (Photographs by Mary Godleski for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Despite the city's glitter, much of the northern inlet section is undeveloped, top. Winter on the Boardwalk can be punishing, as a pedestrian experienced last month. Often, gamblers will emerge from one casino and ride a rolling chair, below left, to another. (Photographs by Mary Godleski for The New York Times); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 8); Trump's Troubles -- Lurking on the horizon is the seemingly never-ending drama associated with Donald Trump's three struggling properties -- the Trump Plaza, left; Trump Marina, center; and the Taj Mahal. Analysts expect Mr. Trump to refinance the $1.3 billion debt he owes on the Taj Mahal and the Trump Plaza, just as he refinanced about a half-billion dollars in debt on the Trump Marina last spring. For now, analysts are watching warily as the Trump empire scrambles to make its interest payments. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); CARD GAMES (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (70%); HISTORY (66%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (63%); TOURISM (62%); AIRPORTS (60%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Borgata (Atlantic City, Nj, Hotel and Casino); Tropicana Casino and Resort (Atlantic City)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%) Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



222 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS; 
Kerry Says White House Is Engaged in 'Extremism'

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Randal C. Archibold and Edward Wyatt contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry on Saturday challenged Republican assertions that he was too liberal for America with a sharp-edged characterization of his own: that President Bush was pursuing an "extremist" agenda that was "fundamentally at odds with our history and our hopes."
 As he rolled to victories in caucuses in Michigan and Washington, Mr. Kerry campaigned in Tennessee and Virginia, where he is hoping to shut out his two Southern-born rivals, Senator John Edwards and Gen. Wesley K. Clark, in primaries on Tuesday. And he unveiled a new speech in which he positioned himself in the "mainstream" and in favor of fiscal responsibility, law and order, a strong defense and aid to veterans. 
 "I want to make it clear: We Democrats will not run from a debate about who represents mainstream America," Mr. Kerry said at the Virginia Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner here. "We welcome it." 
The three major Democrats competing in the state all appeared at the dinner, as did the Rev. Al Sharpton, who followed Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia in addressing nearly 2,000 raucous party activists. But it was the gathering momentumof Mr. Kerry, whom Mr. Warner was expected to endorse Sunday morning, that provided the evening's backdrop.
"This administration has followed the extreme path of the first administration in the history of our nation, when we are at war, to give the highest tax cuts in history to the wealthiest Americans," Mr. Kerry said.
"It is no secret," he said, "that the extreme policies of this administration have watched and squandered goodwill, while manufacturing jobs in our nation are going overseas -- three million jobs lost. The stock market, according to Elaine Chao, the secretary of labor, is the final indicator of an economy. That's their view of a world in which corporate profits have gone up 46 percent, while workers' pay increased only three cents on the hour, and workers lost $1,500 on the year. Well, let us make it clear -- it is not our mark."
Each of the major candidates speaking here made a special pitch to Southern Democrats. Senator Edwards, from neighboring North Carolina, spoke to the Virginians as a native son.
"You know the folks in the South are tired of the Republicans taking the South for granted," he said. "They are tired of the Democrats ignoring the South. What they want is somebody who will fight for them."
He added: "This is not about political strategy for me. I will fight for the people I grew up with in the South exactly the same way I will fight for people across America who desperately need someone in the White House who will stand up and fight for them."
General Clark focused on the values he said he grew up with, and which he said he shared with most Americans: patriotism, faith, family and inclusive leadership.
"I've never stood for elective office before," he said. "I've just been a soldier. But I dedicated my life to serving this country. I think I'm the best man to beat George W. Bush."
Though he acknowledged that family values might seem like part of a Republican platform, he said real family values concerned things like jobs and health care, which allow someone to raise and take care of a family; education, which allows someone to get a job, and "the one that drives old Tom DeLay crazy: the environment," because it is passed on to the next generation of families.
Mr. Kerry made common cause with two politicians who remained popular in the South even after being defeated here.
"We know what the Bush administration will do in the light of their failures: they'll start to tell a lot of stories about Democrats," he said. "My friend John McCain learned what it is like when they start. My friend Max Cleland learned what it was like when they start. And I will tell you, it's not going to work in 2004.
"They're the ones who are extreme," Mr. Kerry continued. "We're the ones who are mainstream. And when we sideline their attacks with the truth, they will truly get desperate and have to do something they've never done before, which is actually talk about the issues and their record."
The Rev. Al Sharpton suggested that President Bush was diverting attention from issues like health care and job losses by talking of a possible constitutional amendment barring gay marriage.
"We are not going to let you turn this debate this year into one on who you are sleeping with," Mr. Sharpton said. "This debate will be on whether you have a job when you wake up."
The major candidates vying in Virginia and Tennessee all campaigned furiously before the banquet on Saturday night. General Clark, who has concentrated on Tennessee, where he believes he has the best chance of victory, spent a rare full day in Virginia. In Memphis, Mr. Edwards sought to play down the significance of a loss in either state, saying that contrary to the thinking of many Democrats, his campaign would survive such a blow.
"This is very much for me a long-term process" he said after a speech at the University of Memphis. "It's a war of attrition. I'm in it until I'm the nominee."
Mr. Kerry, whom Republicans have derided as a Massachusetts liberal in the mold of Senator Edward M. Kennedy or Michael S. Dukakis, began his day with a rally in Nashville alongside former Gov. Ned McWherter of Tennessee and Representative Harold Ford Jr. Mr. Ford said that, although "this tall guy here's from another part of the country," Mr. Kerry "understands the needs of Tennessee."
Mr. Kerry's own remarks, and his jokes, seemed aimed at reversing the damage done when he suggested recently that a Democrat could win the White House without carrying the South.
"This administration is busy trying to paint everybody else as out of touch, out of sync, somehow not in the mainstream," he said. "I'm not worried about coming down South and talking to people about jobs and schools and health care and the environment, I think it's them who ought to worry about coming down here and talking to people about the things they haven't done."
He accused the president of licensing a "creed of greed" in corporate America, saying: "Whether you come from Alabama, Mississippi or Kentucky or Tennessee or Georgia or any other state in the South, you're picking up the bill for their friends who are walking away with the store. And I think it's time for us to stand up."
He told about 1,000 students and Democratic activists crowded into an atrium at Belmont University that he awoke Saturday with the lyrics to a country tune rolling around in his head.
"You know how country is: you got to write about things that are happening that aren't so great in life," he said. "So I wrote about a guy who was losing all his friends, the future looked kind of bleak, losing his job - and I called it 'The Ballad of George W.' "
Mr. Kerry also subtly injected a few religious references to his normally secular stump speech. "So help me God," he said, vowing to eliminate tax loopholes for companies that move offshore. And he said environmental quality was eroding because Americans do not tend to the things "God challenged us to pay attention to in the beginning."
General Clark chose to focus his efforts on Saturday on western and southern Virginia, areas rich with veterans and far from the wealthy Washington suburbs. In Norfolk, he contrasted his career military credentials with his opponents' service in Washington. "While they've been talking and debating about going to war, I was leading in war," he said. "While they were trying to figure out what to do and how to say it, I was trying to figure out how to do it."
He added: "I'm the toughest, smartest person in this race."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, with his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, at the Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner in Richmond, Va. The Rev. Al Sharpton, Senator John Edwards and Gen. Wesley K. Clark also spoke. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ETHICS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Taxation; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Executives and Management; Ethics; Primaries

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); AL SHARPTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MARK WARNER (78%); ELAINE CHAO (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Al (Rev) Sharpton; John (Sen) Edwards; Wesley K (Gen) Clark

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Virginia; Tennessee; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



223 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAUCUSES; 
KERRY VICTORIOUS BY WIDE MARGINS IN 2 MORE STATES

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Sarah Kershaw contributed reporting from Seattle for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry romped to two more big victories in the Democratic presidential battle on Saturday night, overwhelming Howard Dean in two of his one-time strongholds, Washington and Michigan, and solidifying his position as the favorite to win his party's nomination.
 Mr. Kerry's twin victories -- including the one in Michigan, the biggest state that has voted to date, with 128 delegates -- mean he has now won 9 of the first 11 nominating contests. By contrast, Dr. Dean, who placed second in Michigan and Washington, has won none. 
 The result left little doubt of Mr. Kerry's command of the Democratic field as the candidates head to a vote on Sunday in Maine, where Mr. Kerry is also considered strong, and in Tennessee and Virginia on Tuesday. Mr. Kerry had been campaigning intensely in those two Southern states in a hope of victories that would knock out the two Southerners in the race, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Gen. Wesley K. Clark of Arkansas. 
Mr. Kerry, of Massachusetts, speaking at a rally before a Democratic dinner in Richmond, Va., on Saturday evening, hailed the results and moved to turn the discussion away from the Democratic presidential race to the contest with Mr. Bush this fall.
"In Michigan and Washington, a message is being sent -- and it's the same message that was sent from Iowa, New Hampshire, to Missouri, to North Dakota, to New Mexico to Arizona," he said, "And it is the message that I am carrying to Virginia and to Tennessee, and the message is: George Bush's days are numbered."
Dr. Dean's defeats on Saturday in two states that once were considered fertile ground for him came as his campaign lost the backing of a major union supporter, a turn of events that underlined the precipitous decline of his candidacy. Gerald McEntee, the leader of the union that had provided Dr. Dean one of his most important endorsements of the year -- the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees -- told Dr. Dean, the former Vermont governor, that it was withdrawing its support.
Dr. Dean issued a statement on Saturday night reiterating his intent to press forward with his campaign through Wisconsin, which votes on Feb. 17.
"The people of Washington State have sent a clear message that they want this race and this debate to continue, and that our campaign is the real alternative to John Kerry," Dr. Dean said. "We look forward to tomorrow's Maine caucuses and winning Wisconsin on the 17th."
Still, advisers to Dr. Dean seemed staggered by the strength of Mr. Kerry's showing on Saturday, and said they now saw only the remotest hope of any Democrat blocking Mr. Kerry from winning the nomination. Aides to General Clark and Mr. Edwards, looking for victories on Tuesday in Virginia and Tennessee, were hardly more hopeful.
In Michigan, with 100 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Kerry had 52 percent, while Dr. Dean had 17 percent, barely meeting the 15 percent threshold for qualifying for delegates. Mr. Edwards came in third with 14 percent. The Rev. Al Sharpton, who was looking to make a strong showing here, and General Clark each drew 7 percent of the vote. Representative Dennis J. Kucinich received about 3 percent. 
In Washington, with 99 percent of the precincts counted, Mr. Kerry had 48 percent, compared with 30 percent for Dr. Dean. Mr. Kucinich was third with 8 percent, while Mr. Edwards drew 7 percent and General Clark 3 percent.
In Michigan, state party leaders extended the closing time of the poll to 6 p.m. from 4 p.m. in Detroit after a last-minute shift of six caucus sites led to confusion across the city. Some advisers to Mr. Sharpton and Dr. Dean said the last-minute change had the effect of disenfranchising some minority voters, but Democratic leaders, in announcing the result, said they had confidence in the tally.
Michigan was a particularly important prize, both because it had the largest number of delegates at stake and because it is expected to be a fulcrum of the presidential battle this November. The state, which is traditionally a battleground, has the second-highest unemployment rate in the country and has lost more than 300,000 jobs in the past three years.
The election here was unusual because it permitted Democrats to vote over the Internet, as well as by mail or in person. About one-third of the total votes were cast online. Most voters -- more than 100,000 -- showed up at the caucuses to vote in person.
Mark Brewer, executive director of the Michigan party, said that the Internet votes were cast "with integrity and security, and there is no doubt about the accuracy of those results." But Representative John D. Dingell, among others, was concerned about the security of the ballots and said he would oppose further attempts at Internet voting until the system could provide a verifiable paper trail.
"I would be very, very careful," said Mr. Dingell, who represents a district outside Detroit.
In any event, the predictions that Internet voting would favor Dr. Dean were not borne out, and a poll suggested that people who voted by Internet were similar to people who voted by more traditional methods.
A poll by CBS of voters who had applied for absentee ballots, which could be cast either on line or by mail, showed that 37 percent of the people who voted on line voted for Mr. Kerry, while Dr. Dean got the support of 25 percent of online voters. 
But the poll demonstrated that support for Dr. Dean had dwindled over time among these voters, based upon when they cast their votes, much the way it had deteriorated in the population at large. Dr. Dean had the support of 19 percent of the Democrats who voted this week, and 35 percent of those who cast their votes more than two weeks ago.
CBS News interviewed a statewide sample of 1,169 voters in Michigan who had requested an absentee ballot from the Michigan State Democratic Party. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
As the contests came to an end, Mr. Kerry virtually had Michigan, and to a lesser extent, Washington State, to himself. Although just a few weeks ago polls showed Dr. Dean with a commanding lead here, he pulled up stakes on Thursday, skipping on to campaign events elsewhere, and turning his attention to Wisconsin, which is voting on Feb. 17.
With Mr. Kerry pulling into the lead in the polls, the candidates did not make any major investments in television advertisements in Michigan.
Mr. Kerry had not been here since a debate in late October. And Mr. Edwards and General Clark all but ignored Michigan as well, turning their attention to Virginia and Tennessee to head off a Kerry victory in a region they consider their own. 
Mr. Kerry's victory here on Saturday underlined what many Democrats said has been the central dynamic of his candidacy: primary voters and elected officials are willing to put aside differences with Mr. Kerry in the belief that he is the strongest candidate the Democrats had to put up against Mr. Bush. Many elected officials who endorsed him here had opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement and higher fuel mileage standards, both of which Mr. Kerry has supported in Congress. 
A CBS poll of voters who had requested absentee ballots -- not those who actually showed up at the caucus sites -- showed that most voters were also looking for a candidate who could beat Mr. Bush.
"His stand on issues is important, and I don't want to denigrate that, but the top Democrats in this state, myself included, want one thing," Mr. Dingell said in an interview on Saturday. "We want a Democratic presidential candidate who can fight Mr. Bush on good and even terms and who can win, and we think that's John Kerry."
Mr. Dingell said that he had endorsed Mr. Kerry only after receiving assurances during two hourlong discussions with him that he would protect jobs here.
Similarly, Governor Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan said she had endorsed Mr. Kerry after he agreed to "fix" Nafta.
In the Detroit suburb of St. Clair Shores, some Democratic officials said that turnout appeared to be low, suggesting that might be the result of polls showing Mr. Kerry with a big lead in the state, and the absence of other candidates here.
Washington State had once been prime territory for Dr. Dean as well; it is where he drew some of his biggest crowds during the higher-flying periods of his campaign. And there were early reports there of the heavy voting that has characterized almost all of the contests to date.
In Seattle on Saturday morning, hundreds of people crowded into a senior center in one of the state's most diverse and liberal legislative districts.
There were so many voters that caucus organizers had to hastily set up two overflow rooms. Voters, many of them standing, gathered at round tables and began their debating and balloting.
At the table for precinct 1854, all of the candidates had supporters among the 19 voters signed up there.
"I'm from the South and I know that Edwards is more electable than Kerry," said Richard Lewis, 48, who is originally from Texas. "Edwards is a great orator. If we want the swing voters, people are not going to go for Kerry. I'm casting a strategic vote for Edwards."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article in some editions on Sunday about voting for a Democratic nominee for president referred incorrectly in some copies to one state in which Howard Dean placed second on Saturday. He placed second not only in Michigan but also in Washington (not Wisconsin, which votes next Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Voters in Seattle chose candidates yesterday in the Washington State caucuses, where 76 delegates were at stake. Democrats also held caucuses in Michigan, the biggest nominating contest so far, with 128 delegates. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 1); Emad Masoud helps his aunt vote in Dearborn, Mich., as a poll worker explains an Arabic-language ballot. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. 22) Chart: "Results from Yesterday's Races"At 12:15 a.m. E.S.T. Delegates at stake Michigan: 128Precincts reporting: 590 of 590 -- 100% Washington: 76Precincts reporting: 6,497 of 6,552 -- 99% Wesley K. ClarkMichigan: 10,986 -- 7%Washington: 768 -- 3% Howard DeanMichigan: 26,994 -- 17%Washington: 7,060 -- 30% John EdwardsMichigan: 21,919 -- 14%Washington: 1,571 -- 7% John KerryMichigan: 84,214 -- 52%Washington: 11,397 -- 48% Dennis J. KucinichMichigan: 5,183 -- 3%Washington: 1,927 -- 8% Al SharptonMichigan: 11,270 -- 7%Washington: 19 -- 0% (Source by The Associated Press)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; Primaries; Elections; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Adam Nagourney; Katharine Q Seelye; Sarah Kershaw; John (Sen) Kerry; Howard (Dr) Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Maine; Tennessee; Virginia; Michigan; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



224 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-8-04; 
Domesticated

BYLINE:  By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Has our long national parenthesis finally come to a close -- or at least begun to come to a close? Have we, that is, returned to the earthy stuff of political debate, which is to say, jobs and wages and health care, after more than two years of the awful glamour of terrorism and war? President Bush appears to hope that we haven't; but while it's not 1992 again -- perhaps it will never be 1992 again -- the kitchen table is rapidly gaining parity with the aircraft-carrier deck.
 One early sign of this return to normalcy came in the Iowa caucuses, when three-quarters of voters said that they opposed the war in Iraq, but only 14 percent rated it the most important issue, far behind the economy and health care. John Edwards made remarkable inroads by ignoring the war in favor of such quaint Democratic standards as fighting poverty. And Howard Dean's support collapsed not only because voters feared he'd never beat George Bush, but also because they wanted to hear about something other than war and "taking the country back" (though it is an open question whether John Kerry can conduct the kitchen-table debate more effectively than Dean). 
 A more ambiguous piece of evidence came with the president's State of the Union address a day later. A steady flow of leaks and hints had prepared listeners for ambitious, or at least ambitious-sounding, proposals on issues like tax-free savings accounts that would allow the president to campaign as an activist on domestic policy. A few nervous Democratic policy experts associated with the Center for American Progress had already disseminated elaborate rebuttals. And then . . . nothing. The president shelved the big-ticket items and instead offered himself to the public as the hero of Baghdad and the scourge of terrorism. This appears to have been a rare miscalculation by a group of extremely gifted politicians. A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll of voters who watched the speech found that it was less popular than either of the president's two previous State of the Union addresses -- and even less popular than President Clinton's 1999 speech, shadowed by the Senate's impeachment trial.
President Bush may well have scored some points off his future Democratic foe when he warned of "the dangerous illusion that terrorists are not plotting and outlaw regimes are no threat to us." At the same time, it almost sounded as if he was trying to fan the ebbing flames of our national anxiety. After all, when the terrorist plots have been foiled and the outlaw regimes subdued, you may find your mind wandering to subjects like whether you can afford to send your daughter to college. And polls have found that most Americans, and not just caucusgoers and primary voters, across the country rank the economy well ahead of national security in their hierarchy of political concerns.
The Democratic presidential candidates understand -- because pollsters and pundits and experts have been ceaselessly drumming it into their heads -- that they must cross a certain threshold on national security issues before they can get a hearing on the domestic policy terrain where their comparative advantage lies. And so the major candidates have learned to make impressively bellicose noises. But an unanswered, and in fact unasked, question is whether President Bush has to clear a comparable bar on the home front before he can drag the contest back to Saddam Hussein's spider hole, where he would like to see it waged.
No one understands better than George W. Bush the danger of resting on your foreign policy laurels, since he watched his father lose the presidency that way. The White House has already begun to roll out new proposals meant to show daring activism -- space exploration, immigration reform -- and the State of the Union address was studded with inexpensive, Dick Morris-style goodies. But the president may have been forced to drop his bolder plans when conservatives balked at adding to a deficit that is already expected to exceed $500 billion this year. A leading Republican strategist recently was quoted as admitting that the deficit is limiting Bush's "ability to have new things to talk about in 2004." This may explain why in his speech Bush dwelled at such length on past achievements, including prescription drug coverage and tax cuts.
It's instructive to compare President Bush's most recent State of the Union speech with Bill Clinton's valedictory one in 2000. Despite the obvious opportunity to bask in past accomplishments, Clinton devoted well over three-quarters of the speech to new initiatives, some of which were cheap goodies, and some more substantial -- a $30 billion "college opportunity tax cut" for the middle class, making the child care tax credit refundable for low-income families, increasing the ranks of federal gun prosecutors, doubling spending on failing schools, helping the uninsured afford medical coverage and on and on and on. And the avalanche of proposals was unified by a central theme: we had, Clinton declared, replaced "outmoded ideologies" with a "vital center" pledged equally to "opportunity" and "responsibility." It seemed, at the time, that he was right.
The terrorist attacks have, of course, radically shifted the balance between domestic policy and national security concerns. The war in Iraq and the war on terrorism have absorbed many billions of dollars that might otherwise have gone to the programs Clinton advocated. But that new source of vulnerability has scarcely erased the sense of economic insecurity that middle-class and working-class Americans feel, and that was the central preoccupation of Clinton's time in office. And now that Americans have begun to emerge from their psychic bomb shelters, they may begin to clamor for answers to problems they cared deeply about in a time not so very long ago. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by James Estrin) Chart: "GET SUNNY""Many Democrats are so jealous of the right's political success that they're offering their own Democratic brand of Bushism: the notion that you don't have to offer ways to solve the nation's problems if you're good enough at blaming them on the other guy. . . . Some of you have gone dark at the very moment Bush is forsaking the sunny side. Bush can't afford to keep waiting for better times. Instead, he'll spend the next year trying to scare Americans to death, and argue they need him to keep the country safe in a dangerous world. . . . Keep that in mind as you make the rounds from one aggrieved interest group to another." From a "memo" to the candidates by Bruce Reed and Al From, Blueprint magazine, Nov. 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); EVIDENCE (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (72%) James Traub; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (56%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



225 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2210 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR; 
In Senate, Kerry Focused on Inquiries, Not Bills

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
No other senator wanted the job. His closest advisers said he was making a political blunder. 
But John Kerry, who had first appeared in the national spotlight 20 years before as an angry Vietnam War hero who turned against the war, agreed in 1991 to become chairman of a special Senate committee to investigate the emotional question of whether American prisoners of war were still alive in Vietnam.
 After years of tedious negotiations with the Vietnamese, raw encounters with veterans' groups and families of the missing, and ugly arguments with zealots steeped in Rambo movies, Mr. Kerry managed to forge a consensus that there were no more P.O.W.'s in Vietnam. 
 And with his Republican colleague and fellow Vietnam veteran Senator John McCain of Arizona, Mr. Kerry then persuaded President Bill Clinton in 1995 to enter full diplomatic and economic relations with Vietnam, 20 years after the war.
By his own reckoning and that of his colleagues, this is probably Mr. Kerry's proudest accomplishment in 19 years as a senator. It is emblematic of his career in the Senate: his emphasis on foreign affairs, his interest in investigations and oversight rather than legislation, and the importance -- and political advantage -- of his background as a decorated Navy officer in Vietnam.
"It represented a long period of work, 10 years really of sustained engagement," Mr. Kerry said in an interview on Friday. "It represented walking through some minefields and bringing your colleagues along with you. And that represented keeping faith with something that had a profound impact on our generation and bringing it full circle."
Mr. Kerry, a Democrat from Massachusetts, has had a career in the Senate that is not easy to pigeonhole but is already figuring large in the presidential campaign.
Terry Holt, the spokesman for President Bush's re-election campaign, suggested a line of attack that would be used against Mr. Kerry. 
"John Kerry has been an extremely liberal member of the United States Senate," Mr. Holt said, arguing that he had consistently voted against new military spending and weapons programs.
The Republican National Committee accuses Mr. Kerry of being "for higher taxes and against tax cuts" and "extreme on abortion." And Grover G. Norquist, a conservative strategist, said: "We know how to beat standard-issue national Democrats. We do it regularly. When you stand up and say here's a Massachusetts liberal whose voting record is nearly identical to Ted Kennedy's, you just lost 45 percent of the electorate -- and that's the starting point."
Other critics assert that he lacks legislative accomplishments, for all his talk of "leading fights" on issues like health care. They note that much of the legislation that became law, for which he was chief sponsor, involves matters like ocean research, protecting marine mammals from commercial fishing and providing grants to small businesses owned by women -- hardly the fuel that drives presidential campaigns.
In the debate of Democratic candidates in South Carolina last week, Howard Dean asserted, "I mean him no insult, but in 19 years in the Senate, Senator Kerry sponsored 11 bills that had anything to do with health care, and not one of them passed."
Mr. Kerry responded to Dr. Dean that there were many ways to influence legislation, from amendments on the floor of the Senate to framing debates and filibusters. And, he argued, "sometimes your accomplishments are not in what you get done, but in what you stop other people from doing."
Still, he is not known as a legislator's legislator. Defenders say Mr. Kerry's background as a prosecutor and Vietnam veteran pushed him in a direction different from that of most other senators -- toward early investigations of the contras in Nicaragua, the corrupt Bank of Credit and Commerce International, the Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega and the elections in the Philippines under Ferdinand Marcos.
"They represent a part of the lesson I learned early about governments that tell lies and governments that don't keep their promises to people, which all comes out of the experience I had of being lied to and seeing the consequences," he said, alluding to his time in Vietnam. "The efforts to hold government accountable to the people we really represent is to me the centerpiece of why I'm there."
His presidential ambitions were assumed almost from the day he arrived in Washington. But around the Senate Mr. Kerry is often described as aloof, patrician, a bit of a lone ranger. 
Mr. Kerry has suffered by comparison with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the senior senator from Massachusetts, a man of considerable bonhomie and power as the top Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. "John gets this rap that he's aloof in part because he is always going to be compared to Ted Kennedy, and Ted is the most engaging politician I've ever met in my life," said former Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, now the president of New School University in New York.
Mr. Kerry himself said he was never bothered by the comparison, although he added: "Is it a reality that he is a huge presence? Yes."

Voting With Liberals
Republicans maintain Mr. Kerry is every bit as liberal as Mr. Kennedy, and in most respects, Mr. Kerry's voting record puts him solidly in the liberal camp. 
He has consistently voted in favor of abortion rights, even on matters where polls showed the public to be in favor of restraints. Last year, for instance, he voted against legislation that outlawed the procedure that opponents of abortion call partial-birth abortion. "Even on the most difficult issues, we've never had to worry about John Kerry's position," said Kate Michelman, president of Naral Pro-Choice America.
Similarly, he has been a strong advocate of gay rights, even when most senators were on the other side. In 1996, he was one of only 14 senators who voted against the Defense of Marriage Act, a law signed by President Clinton prohibiting federal recognition of same-sex marriage.
At the time, Mr. Kerry said he opposed gay marriages but felt that "this debate is fundamentally ugly, and it is fundamentally political, and it is fundamentally flawed."
Environmentalists also consider Mr. Kerry to be one of their most stalwart allies in politics. He took a leading role in blocking Republican energy legislation in 2002 and 2003 that would have allowed oil and gas exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
"John Kerry has one of the best environmental records in the Senate," said Betsy Loyless, vice president for policy of the League of Conservation Voters.
On other issues, Mr. Kerry voted for the Clinton tax increase, raising the minimum wage, stiff gun control laws, antismoking measures and a nuclear test ban treaty. He voted against the Bush tax cuts, capital punishment, the Star Wars missile defense system and the confirmations of Robert H. Bork and Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court.
To appeal to gun owners, Mr. Kerry makes a point in his stump speeches of noting that he is an avid hunter, but that position has not converted the Republican-oriented National Rifle Association. "He may be successful in selling himself as a sportsman and hunter in Beacon Hill, Boston," said Andrew Arulanandam, the association's spokesman, "but he's going to have a very tough time convincing voters in Beckley, W.Va."

On Other Side of Issues
But there are some exceptions to this liberal record. Mr. Kerry was one of the first Democrats to cosponsor the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, which was meant to lead to a balanced budget, and at various times he advocated a lower capital gains tax and the elimination of income taxes on stock dividends.
He supported President Clinton on some legislation that many liberals opposed, including the North American Free Trade Agreement and work requirements for welfare recipients. And more recently he voted for President Bush's education initiatives and the USA Patriot Act, which eliminated legal rules that might have made it more difficult to catch and prosecute terrorists. He has also spoken in favor of federal aid to religion-based charities.
In 1991, he opposed sending troops to fight in the Persian Gulf war. But he voted in 2002 to authorize fighting in Iraq, and he supported military action in Panama, Somalia, Kosovo and Afghanistan.
"I think he's a moderate Democrat -- very liberal on social policy and reasonably conservative on foreign policy and defense matters," said former Senator Warren B. Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire. 
While Mr. Kerry's votes over 19 years -- more than 6,000 votes in all -- are sure to be scrutinized, his supporters say the real measure of his Senate career is his focus on investigations and oversight.
Early in 1985, in his first year in Congress, with the Senate controlled by Republicans, he got wind of how a Marine lieutenant colonel on the White House staff, Oliver L. North, was illegally arranging support for the rebels, called contras, who were trying to overthrow the left-wing government of Nicaragua.
Sensing that the Reagan administration was misleading the public in what he said felt to him like a potential replay of Vietnam, Mr. Kerry went to Nicaragua on a fact-finding mission. He was ridiculed by Secretary of State George P. Shultz and accused by conservative commentators of aiding communists.
But ultimately, the ad hoc investigation paid off. Suspicions about Colonel North increased. The Foreign Relations Committee began a formal inquiry. Documents found in a plane that was shot down in Nicaragua indicated involvement by the C.I.A. And in November 1986, a Middle Eastern newspaper reported that United States arms had been secretly sold to Iran with the proceeds diverted to support the contras.
By then, Democrats had won back control of the Senate in the midterm elections, and in early 1987, a special committee was formed to investigate what had become known as the Iran-contra affair.
Mr. Kerry was left off the committee. Senior Democrats like George J. Mitchell of Maine and Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii wanted part of the first big televised inquiry since Watergate, and they exercised the prerogative of their seniority.
As a consolation, the party leaders made Mr. Kerry chairman of a panel on terrorism, narcotics and international operations. He used that post to investigate reports that Mr. Noriega in Panama was engaged in drug trafficking. That in turn led to an investigation of Bank of Credit and Commerce International, the shady worldwide banking operation that turned out to be involved in money-laundering and illicit arms deals. 
A byproduct of the bank investigation was that Mr. Kerry helped expose the activities of the former Defense Secretary Clark M. Clifford, who was chairman of a Washington bank that turned out to be a shell for B.C.C.I.

Unraveling P.O.W. Issues
Those investigations were precursors to Mr. Kerry's work on prisoners of war in Vietnam.
Over the years, Mr. Kerry had become friendly with Mr. McCain, a prisoner in Vietnam for more than five years, and the two agreed that the still-open wounds of the Vietnam War needed to be healed. To do that, they first had to deal with whether the rampant rumors of P.O.W.'s still alive in Vietnam were true.
One politician who believed the rumors was Senator Robert C. Smith, Republican of New Hampshire, and he successfully sponsored legislation to create a special committee to investigate the matter. When no other Democrat stepped forward to head the panel, Mr. Kerry agreed to become chairman.
"It was a totally thankless job, and it was all-consuming for the next year and a half," said Frances Zwenig, who was the committee's chief of staff. "We were dealing with desperate families and raw emotions, and the Rambo movies were very popular."
Mr. Kerry made repeated trips to Vietnam, said Nancy H. Stetson, the senator's chief foreign policy adviser for more than a decade. He persuaded the reluctant Vietnamese to give him access to records and archives, not just in Hanoi but in the provinces. He even managed to dispel rumors that prisoners were buried beneath Ho Chi Minh's tomb.
In the end, Mr. Kerry persuaded even Mr. Smith to sign the report saying no prisoners remained.
Then, he and Mr. McCain turned their attention to persuading President Clinton to normalize relations between the countries, and in 1995, they succeeded.
"Kerry was crucial," said Nancy E. Soderberg, the staff member on Mr. Clinton's National Security Council who dealt with Southeast Asia.
Ms. Soderberg explained: "Clinton wanted to put the Vietnam era behind us, but the politics were very difficult. The family and veterans' groups were very much opposed to recognition. He had not served in Vietnam and had difficult relations with the military. Kerry and McCain provided the validation for him to move on."
Mr. Kerry's allies argue that the skills he showed in the investigations are more transferable to the executive branch than the incremental give and take of the legislative process. 
Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, observed that every Democrat elected to the Senate from Massachusetts in the last 50 years has run for president and that the only one who succeeded, John F. Kennedy, had the least legislation to his name.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Senators John Glenn, John McCain and John Kerry in Vietnam in 1995, investigating whether P.O.W.'s were still alive there. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 23) Chart: "Looking at 19 Years of Votes in the Senate"On economic and social issues, Senator John Kerry has a mostly liberal voting record. On economic and social issues, Senator John Kerry has a mostly liberal voting record. How Some Interest Groups Rate His Votes Graphs track the following from 1985-2002: LABOR -- A.F.L.-C.I.O. ratingENVIRONMENT -- League of Conservation Voters ratingBUSINESS -- U.S. Chamber of Commerce rating Siding With Other DemocratsCongressional Quarterly's score of how often the senator voted with Democrats on partisan votes Graph tracks the Senate Democrat average from 1985-2003 Some of Senator Kerry's Votes USE OF MILITARY FORCE Yes -- on authorizing the use of force in Panama (1989), Kosovo (1999) and Iraq (2002). No -- on authorizing force in the Persian Gulf (1991). No -- on President Bush's request for $87 billion to cover military and reconstruction expenses in Iraq (2003). DOMESTIC ISSUES ABORTION No -- on banning the procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion (2003). No -- on requiring organizations receiving federal money to notify parents or guardians before performing an abortion on a minor (1990). GAY RIGHTS Yes -- on ending the ban against gays in the military (1993). CAPITAL PUNISHMENT No -- on death penalty for drug traffickers (1988). CIVIL LIBERTIES No -- on a constitutional amendment outlawing flagburning (2000). Yes on broadening the government's authority to act against suspected terrorists (2001). WOMEN'S RIGHTS No -- on repealing the law prohibiting women from flying in combat (1991). GUN CONTROL No -- on allowing interstate sales of firearms (1985). MEDICARE Yes -- on requiring better-off beneficiaries to pay a greater portion of their insurance premiums (1997). No -- on legislation for a prescription drug benefit and an expanded role for private insurers (2003). EDUCATION No -- on vouchers to pay private school tuition (1992). No -- on education savings accounts (1998). ECONOMIC ISSUES Yes -- on the North American Free Trade Agreement (1993). Yes -- on a five-year moratorium on taxes on sales over the Internet (1998). Yes -- on increasing the minimum wage (1996). (Sources by Congressional Quarterly; League of Conservation Voters)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETERANS (77%); NAVIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TAX LAW (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); MARINE MAMMALS (60%); MARINE BIOLOGY (60%); OCEANOGRAPHY (60%); MAMMALS (60%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (50%); ABORTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Primaries; United States International Relations; Law and Legislation ; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (84%); AFL-CIO (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (95%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); TED KENNEDY (58%) David E Rosenbaum; Robin Toner; Howard (Dr) Dean; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (94%); IRAQ (92%); KOSOVO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GULF STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



226 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Commissioner at Center of Storm Despite Decline in Welfare 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took office, he outlined a welfare policy that was similar in many ways to Rudolph W. Giuliani's -- demanding work from recipients, keeping the number of people on the rolls down -- but one that added a pledge to put new emphasis on educating and training women so they could leave welfare for sustainable work.
 Two years later, despite a weak economy, welfare rolls are down from 2002 levels, and many former recipients are staying at their new jobs longer. The decline has occurred even as the local economy has floundered in the aftermath of September 11, an accomplishment noted in passing by Mr. Bloomberg last month when he gave his State of the City speech. 
 But Mr. Bloomberg's satisfaction is hardly universal. His commissioner of the Human Resources Administration, Verna Eggleston, has managed to provoke dismay and anger among many in the social service and political establishment, and even among the mayor's own advisers . 
And many in the city's vociferous nonprofit advocacy community who had expected a rollback of Mr. Giuliani's distinctive toughness complain that the current commissioner is as hard-line as her predecessor, Jason Turner. Worse, they say, Ms. Eggleston can be foggy on details and wavers on policy approach from meeting to meeting. 
City Council members, meanwhile, say the commissioner has undermined their efforts to expand training programs and increase the availability and use of food stamps. 
Contractors who provide services like housing and counseling to the city's welfare clients say that Ms. Eggleston has thrown well-established programs -- like supportive housing for AIDS patients -- into disarray.
Ms. Eggleston is unbowed. She said she has achieved Mr. Bloomberg's central ambitions despite a recession and has improved on the efforts of Mr. Giuliani's administration as a result of good management. She has started a pilot program to cut lines at the city's welfare centers, rewarded providers of social services for keeping former welfare recipients in jobs longer and included wage subsidies and a professional training component in Mr. Giuliani's controversial program to have able-bodied welfare recipients clean the city's parks.
Ms. Eggleston, whose mother received welfare when the commissioner was a child, views much of the criticism directed at her as personal attacks resulting from a misunderstanding of her passion.
"People did not want an African-American, female Republican," she said. "They wanted an African-American female Democrat and a return to the old mode of thinking. I don't fit the type. We were seeing seven generations trapped in poverty. Our programs were destroying races and communities. I won't do that."
There seems to be little doubt that some of the animus directed at Ms. Eggleston stems from differing political visions of welfare reform.
"We anticipated a less hostile team, under Bloomberg," said Andrew Friedman, a co-director of Make the Road by Walking, a nonprofit advocacy group. "They are fairly systematically failing to live up to this."
But Mr. Friedman says his problems are not just politics or tone. Ms. Eggleston, he said, can simply be poorly informed or equipped to tackle complex policies. He asserted that at one point she could not distinguish between the city's position and that of social service providers on the question of employing language translators at the city's welfare centers.
"On substantive policy issues, she is earning a reputation of not being up to the job," he said.
There is disgruntlement, too, among some outside agencies that work on contract for the city's welfare agency. They say Ms. Eggleston's shortcomings make delivering services a practical problem.
As an example, they cited H.R.A.'s request last September for outside contractors to develop new proposals for housing for AIDS patients as decade-old contracts were expiring. The contract guidelines indicated that the city wanted to pull back from offering the range of services -- social work, for instance -- that it had offered in the past.
But the contract, the agencies said, was poorly conceived and confusing.
"It was also confusing because it is hard to get a clear answer from her," said a co-director of the New York City AIDS Housing Network, Jennifer Flynn. "She is all over the place."
In the end, the city simply extended the old contracts temporarily.
Some say Ms. Eggleston's problems stem from her mercurial style, which former and current staffers, as well numerous social service providers, describe as often compellingly insistent but sometimes needlessly inflammatory.
In January 2003, for example, the City Council moved to pass a law that would allow welfare recipients to use required work hours for a vast variety of training and education programs. The concept of the legislation was in line with changes Ms. Eggleston had said she supported. Yet several people involved in the late stages of negotiations with the mayor's office over the bill said that Ms. Eggleston arrived at one of the final negotiating sessions declaring that she was opposed to the bill and considered it an affront to her authority. She then stormed out.
The mayor ended up vetoing the bill, largely at her insistence, creating much frustration within the City Council, which eventually passed the bill anyway. "I respect her passion and respect her experience in this field," said the chairman of the council's General Welfare Committee, Bill De Blasio, "but perhaps that same passion makes it harder for her to find consensus and to hear dissenting voices."
Ms. Eggleston said that she is happy to work with the council but that council members have unrealistic expectations of how closely she can deal with them on a day-to-day basis. She said she could not discuss the dispute over the training bill, which is now the subject of a lawsuit.
In another example of a political left-footedness, Ms. Eggleston dismayed the mayor's closest advisers with her support for a plan to cut off welfare money to entire families, including children, if a parent failed to meet the city's work requirements. Her unexpected position, according to one government official, caused a schism in the mayor's inner circle that almost cost Ms. Eggleston her job. Ms. Eggleston denied that she had ever pushed for such a policy change but admitted that she would like "more tools" for managing the welfare caseload. She also said that she had the full support of City Hall.
The mayor's chief of staff, Peter J. Madonia, also denied that there had been any talk of firing Ms. Eggleston, saying she had met the mayor's bottom line -- keeping the welfare rolls down.
"She has got strong feelings about the kinds of policy things that she wants to get done, but she is by no means a renegade," Mr. Madonia said. "People can do business with her, and in the end, that is what it is all about. We are not here to socialize." By her own account, the achievements Ms. Eggleston is proudest of concern management innovations.
Under Mr. Giuliani, for example, the city paid contractors a fee when they helped place a welfare recipient in a job, and then paid them a much smaller additional fee if the person was still on the job six months later. Ms. Eggleston reversed the size of the payments, and the result is that six-month retention rates have risen to 72 percent from 65 percent, according to figures provided by the Human Resources Administration. 
"It sounds small," said Pat Smith, Ms. Eggleston's first deputy, "but it is revolutionary."
Through Ms. Smith, the commissioner also claimed credit for humanizing perhaps the most controversial part of Mr. Giuliani's welfare reforms -- the Work Experience Program in the city's parks. At the height of the program, some 7,000 able-bodied welfare recipients worked cleaning parks as a condition of receiving benefits checks.
Some complained that the jobs were exploitative since the wages were far below those paid to full-time unionized staff members, and because they did not lead to employment or even employable skills.
Ms. Eggleston has greatly reduced the program and transferred the 3,000 remaining welfare workers into the Parks Opportunity Program, which includes a weekly day of training in an employment field of their choice. And the city, partly in response to a lawsuit by the unionized workers, has also raised recipients' wages to $7.50 an hour.
The project that Ms. Eggleston says she hopes will become her biggest legacy is a new model welfare center on Third Avenue at 127th Street in East Harlem, where she is trying to tackle a longstanding problem for the welfare agency: customer service.
"We heard the people complain," the commissioner said, "and we responded."
During the Giuliani administration, the city consolidated many diverse benefit offices into giant centers. The justification was convenience, but the outcome was often the opposite -- clients spent hours on lines, often the wrong lines. Cynics saw a deliberate effort to discourage applications.
Employing and refining innovations first used at the Department of Motor Vehicles and at Medicaid offices, the Harlem center is designed to shrink those lines. Clients are greeted at a front desk, where they are assigned translators if necessary and handed pastel colored tickets that match the paint of the area where staff members who deal with the related public service can be found -- mint green for food stamps, for example, and powder blue for public assistance.
It is too early to tell how the center will work, but Alan B. Siskind, the chairman of the Human Services Council of New York City, an advisory group to the commissioner, and the chief executive of the Jewish Board of Family and Children Services, gives Ms. Eggleston high marks for trying.
"She is very sensitive to the needs of clients," he said. "Frankly, I am impressed with the energy that has gone into making this agency more responsible."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the policies of New York City's Human Resources Administration under Commissioner Verna Eggleston referred imprecisely to the advisory role of Alan B. Siskind, chairman of the Human Services Council of New York City. When he said he advises the agency, he meant as a member of its Citizens Advisory Committee, not in his capacity with the council. Although the council also offers advice, it is a nonprofit association of social service agencies and not primarily an advisory group to the commissioner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Verna Eggleston, commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Welfare (US); Biographical Information; Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; Food Stamps; Vocational Training; Welfare (US)

ORGANIZATION: Human Resources Administration (NYC)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Leslie Kaufman; Verna Eggleston; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004 



227 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Libya's Crude Bomb Design Eases Western Experts' Fear 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
Investigators have determined that the nuclear weapon blueprints found in Libya from the Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan were of his own relatively crude type of bomb -- not the more advanced models that Pakistan developed and successfully tested, American and European arms experts have said in interviews.
 The analysis of the blueprints, which establish a new link between Dr. Khan and the underground nuclear black market now under global scrutiny, has heartened investigators in Europe and the United States because his design is seen as less threatening in terms of the spread of nuclear weapons. 
 "If you had to have a design circulating around the world, we'd be worse off if it was a design other than Khan's," said an American weapons expert who is familiar with the Libyan case. 
However, European and American investigators said they feared that Dr. Khan and his network of shadowy middlemen might have peddled the weapon blueprints to othernations in deals that have not yet come to light. They also said the Libyan findings gave new credence to what was apparently an attempt by Dr. Khan more than a decade ago to sell a nuclear weapon design to Iraq.
Pakistani officials have focused their recent disclosures on Dr. Khan's illicit spread of equipment to enrich uranium to produce nuclear fuel, and have said little or nothing of the blueprints for a nuclear warhead that went to Libya, which are considered more sensitive. To the amazement of inspectors, the blueprints discovered in Libya were wrapped in plastic bags from an Islamabad dry cleaner.
"The Libyans said they got it as a bonus," an official said of the plans.
The centrifuge equipment and warhead designs from Dr. Khan's laboratories in Pakistan were discovered in Libya after the country's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, agreed to dismantle his secret nuclear program, opening it to United States and United Nations nuclear officials. 
Late last month, a 747 aircraft was chartered by the United States government for the sole purpose of carrying the small box with the warhead designs from Libya to Dulles airport near Washington. They are now undergoing analysis.
The American weapons expert said Western analysts, while relieved to find that the blueprint was of Dr. Khan's design, were not overjoyed. "A bad bomb is still a nuke," he said. "It can still do pretty terrible things to your city."
Dr. Khan is known in Pakistan as the father of the Pakistani bomb or the founder of its nuclear weapons program, but Western experts say the credit is not all his. A metallurgist, he is an expert at building centrifuges -- hollow metal tubes that spin very fast to enrich natural uranium in its rare U-235 isotope, which is an excellent bomb fuel. His mastery of the difficult art proved vital to Pakistan's acquiring a nuclear arsenal.
But other Pakistani scientists, Western experts said, had far greater success in turning the enriched uranium into nuclear warheads.
To develop the armaments, the American expert said, Pakistan ran "two parallel weapons programs, one good and one bad; Khan ran the bad one." Dr. Khan's weapon was inferior in terms of such as things as size, power and efficiency. The Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission, the nation's official authority for nuclear development, ran the more successful program.
All Pakistan's atom bombs resemble designs that China tested in the late 1960's and passed on to Pakistan decades ago, European and American experts said.
So too, Pakistan's atom bombs all use a relatively advanced means to detonate bomb fuel known as implosion.
The weapon that destroyed Hiroshima in 1945 used a simpler detonation method known as a "gun-type system," in which conventional explosives sped a uranium projectile through a cannon barrel into a uranium target, creating a critical mass and a gargantuan blast.
By contrast, experts said, Pakistan's designs used the more advanced principle of implosion, as did the bomb dropped on Nagasaki. It works by having a sphere of conventional explosives squeeze inward to crush a ball of bomb fuel, creating the critical mass. Implosion uses much less fuel than detonations from the gun-type system, making the bombs far cheaper and lighter.
Even so, Dr. Khan's design is "vanilla flavored and very old in concept," a European weapons expert said.
Analysts said the Libyan episode gave new life to the case of a middleman claiming to represent Dr. Khan who in 1990, on the eve of the Persian Gulf war, offered to have the Pakistani help Iraq build its own nuclear weapon.
The case came to light in the mid- 1990's when United Nations inspectors came across documents relating to the middleman's offer. "He is prepared to give us project designs for a nuclear bomb," an Iraqi memo said of Dr. Khan. "The motive behind this proposal is gaining profits for him and the intermediary." But the investigators made little headway, largely because Pakistan furiously denied there had been any aid to Iraq and refused to allow Dr. Khan to be questioned.
Now, those denials have collapsed, bringing new interest. David Albright, president of the Institute for Science and International Security in Washington, said Iraqi documents, coupled with the Libyan developments, raised the possibility that Dr. Khan's network operated for more than a decade to offer atomic blueprints not only to Libya and Iraq but to countries like Iran, Syria and North Korea. Global investigators must now carefully examine that possibility, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CENTRIFUGES (87%); INTERVIEWS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



228 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Cheapening the Dollar 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has tacitly but unmistakably abandoned Washington's longstanding support for a strong dollar in favor of a weak dollar that is getting weaker, though he continues to insist there has been no change in policy. 
 Stripped of the code words and elliptical references to "excessive volatility" in exchange rates, the message that Mr. Snow delivered this weekend to finance ministers from Europe and Japan was that the dollar's plunge against the euro is just fine and that the dollar should now decline more rapidly against Asian currencies as well. 
 In so doing, the Bush administration has made a calculated economic and political choice. By condoning and even encouraging a cheap dollar, the administration is providing a big push to American exporters by making their products less expensive in foreign markets. 
That should encourage more hiring and lower unemployment leading up to the election. The only immediate losers are exporters in Europe and Asia who have to choose between cutting prices or losing market share in the United States.
But the long-term risks are substantial. At some point, a weaker dollar will inevitably lead to higher prices for imported goods -- almost all consumer electronics bought by Americans, most of their clothing, many of their cars and much of the oil that provides the fuel to drive them.
A much bigger risk is that a plunging dollar could contribute to a rise in interest rates, as foreign investors demand fatter risk premiums before agreeing to buy hundreds of billions of dollars worth of Treasury securities to finance America's high levels of indebtedness.
The United States needs to attract $1.5 billion a day in net capital inflows from abroad -- $500 billion a year more than it sends out -- which means that the world is being flooded by American I.O.U.'s at levels never seen before. The administration's huge budget deficits could increase that need for foreign capital even more, and higher interest rates would add billions of dollars to those deficits.
Foreign buyers, and Asian central banks in particular, are now the most important buyers of American Treasury bills and bonds. But much of that buying had little to do with the rosy economic outlook for the United States and very much to do with propping up the dollar against the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
The dollar would probably be declining regardless of what Mr. Snow said, because the United States is now so indebted to the rest of the world that the appeal of American securities is considerably less than it was at the height of the boom.
Since its peak in the fall of 2000, the dollar has lost nearly half its value against the euro. 
In the joint communique they issued after the Group of 7 meeting ended in Boca Raton, Fla., on Saturday, the finance ministers declared that "excessive volatility" and "disorderly" movements in exchange rates were bad for economic growth.
That was a partial nod to European leaders, who were beginning to panic about the weak dollar and suddenly strong euro. European officials interpreted the communique as acknowledging their worries about the euro's recent surge and also giving them a justification for intervening in the markets if the euro shoots up in any way that might be considered "disorderly" and "excessive."
"The Europeans were huge winners and the Japanese were huge losers," said Paul McCulley, fund manager for Pimco advisers, one of the nation's largest bond investment funds.
But the official American view was quite different. The American interpretation was that the Group of 7 had said nothing at all about the dollar's value against the euro and that a further gradual decline in the value of the dollar would be entirely different from a "disorderly" decline or "excessive volatility."
Put another way, Mr. Snow was not calling for the dollar to climb back in value but for it to sink more rapidly against the Asian currencies. For currency traders and analysts gearing up for the markets to open on Monday, the big question was not whether the dollar would stop declining but whether the Japanese yen would abruptly jump in value.
The problem confronting American and European officials alike is that China, the most explosive player on the Asian scene, is not even a member of the Group of 7. "China is the 800-pound gorilla and it isn't even part of the negotiations," Mr. McCully remarked.
China has kept its currency pegged at a fixed exchange rate to the dollar for the past decade, and it has done so by a combination of restrictions on capital flows and heavy purchases of American securities. But most economists contend that China's currency has become seriously undervalued as its trade surplus with the United States has soared to well over $100 billion and its treasury has accumulated more than $300 billion in foreign reserves.
Japan, by contrast, has allowed its currency to rise in the past month even as it bought $67 billion in American securities to slow that rise.
Japanese officials signaled this weekend that they will continue to intervene to preserve "stable" exchange rates, and the American-approved denunciation of "excessive volatility" may have given them implicit permission to do so.
But no matter what happens to the yen, many analysts predict the dollar's overall value is still headed down.
"This doesn't do anything to alter the perception that the administration would like the dollar to decline further," said Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "I don't think the markets will be very impressed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); EURO (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); INWARD INVESTMENT (70%); MARKET SHARE (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); IMPORT PRICES (67%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



229 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Bond Sales Set For This Week 

 BODY:
This week's schedule of Treasury auctions includes the sale of new three- and six-month bills today, a four-week bill and three-year note tomorrow, a five-year note on Wednesday and a 10-year note on Thursday. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.90 percent, the rate on the six-month issue was 0.97 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.85 percent. 
 In when-issued trading, the three-year note was offered at a price to yield 2.30 percent, the five-year note was at 3.12 percent and the 10-year note was at 4.11 percent. 
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TUESDAY
Charleston County School District, S.C., $98 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Wisconsin Water, $116.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

WEDNESDAY
Boston, Mass., $89.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Virginia Public School Authority, $59.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
Baltimore County, Md., $152 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arizona Transportation, $120 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, $53.8 million of revenue bonds for Alameda County Social Service Administration Building. Grigsby & Associates.
City of Austin, Tex., $52.9 million of hotel occupancy tax revenue refunding bonds. Estrada Hinojosa & Co.
City of Houston Health Facilities Development Corp., $124.5 million of retirement facility revenue bonds for Buckingham Senior Living Community project. Ziegler Capital Markets.
Hillsborough County School, Fla., $56 million of certificates of participation. Citigroup Global Markets.
Hamilton County Convention Center, Ohio, $120 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $129.5 million of revenue refunding bonds. UBS.
Oregon Community College Districts, $92 million of limited taxes pension obligation bonds. Seattle-Northwest Securities.
Snohomish County Public Utility District No. 1, Washington, $90 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
State of Ohio, $160 million general obligation highway capital improvement bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
City of New York, $949.3 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
United Independent School District, Texas, $50 million of debt securities. Southwest Securities.
University Medical Center, $50 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (96%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); ESTRADA HINOJOSA & CO INC (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); SEATTLE-NORTHWEST SECURITIES CORP (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



230 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
The patent office argues that the government should just let it live off what it gets from inventors.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand

 BODY:
THE Bush administration's budget proposal for 2005 has set off the perennial scramble among government agencies and federal programs to dodge financial cuts. For the Patent and Trademark Office, the traditional battle is to keep Congress from diverting chunks of the revenue the office takes in from the patent-seeking public. It is a fight the agency has never won. 
 But this year, for the first time since 1997, when the White House began including such diversions in its proposed budgets, the president's proposal calls for the patent office to keep all its income, which is projected to be $1.32 billion for 2005. 
 "Right now I'm cautiously optimistic," the agency's acting director, Jon W. Dudas, said in an interview last week, after the budget proposal was announced. "We see friends everywhere in Congress. Both the appropriators and authorizers recognize we have a problem and are seeking a solution." 
Mr. Dudas said that lack of money had prevented the patent office from staying on schedule with its five-year plan for overhauling its operations -- a plan the agency adopted partly in response to Congressional criticism of its mounting backlog of patent applications.
But what the White House seeks to give, Congress may yet take away. Since 1991, when the patent office stopped being supported by taxpayers and started financing itself through user fees, Congress has diverted more than $650 million to unrelated programs, according to the agency. During that same 12 years, the patent office, which is part of the Department of Commerce, took in $9.7 billion in fees charged to the public to file, process and maintain patents and trademarks. 
For the last two years, the Bush administration has reduced the amount it has asked Congress to divert, in keeping with what Mr. Dudas says has been an administration promise to end the diversion gradually. But each year, Congress wound up taking more than the president proposed.
The administration is now asking Congress to keep its hands off the patent office's revenue, but the request comes at a difficult time. There are estimates that military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan will cost $50 billion and the administration is proposing to end dozens of federal programs and scale back dozens of others, in hope of denting a record federal deficit of $521 billion. 
So Congress might seek extra money where it has found it in the past. But Mr. Dudas says that because his agency earns its keep, it should be treated differently from other government programs now threatened with cuts. 
"We're not more important, just different," Mr. Dudas said. "We're a fully funded agency, not one funded with taxpayer dollars. We're not subject to the same considerations of what should Congress give and what should it not." 
In 2002, the patent office devised a five-year plan to tackle the applications backlog by hiring 2,400 examiners who would be qualified to evaluate the increasing number of computer and technology inventions and by moving the agency into the electronic age with all-digital processing of applications. 
But the agency says it has not been able to keep enough of its revenue to carry out the plan. Instead of hiring 750 examiners as planned last year, for example, it barely managed to replace those who left. The plan calls for 900 additional examiners in 2005.
The backlog of patent applications has, meanwhile, grown to 500,000, and the patent-pending period now averages 26 months. 
For the agency to get back on track, it will have to restart the five-year clock, which means that Congress will need to avoid diverting the patent office's revenue for five years, Mr. Dudas said. "We've said, 'Here's our strategic plan, but we need the funding to do it,"' he said.
But "even a one-year surge of appropriate funding would allow us to hire 900 more examiners," Mr. Dudas said. "If that's all we get, it would be helpful. It would be dramatically helpful." 
The patent office's revenue could be more than $1.32 billion if Congress approves the agency's request to raise fees and add new ones. That would raise the forecast to $1.53 billion, but the White House opposes the authorization bill in its current form because it includes a provision that would put the agency's revenues permanently off limits to budget diversion.
Mr. Dudas predicts dire consequences if the fee increases are not approved: no hiring, no overtime, an eventual lengthening of the patent-pending period to 45 months and a backlog of applications exceeding one million. "If the patent system becomes useless, or people feel the need to find alternatives, that's wasteful to the economy as a whole," Mr. Dudas said. "What the economy and industry need is certainty." 
Still, Mr. Dudas was upbeat. "What is different this year is that the administration made a promise and it has kept that promise," he said.

Patents may be viewed on the Web at www.uspto.gov or may be ordered through the mail, by patent number, for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon W. Dudas, acting director of the Patent and Trademark Office, is lobbying for the agency to keep the fees it collects. (Photo by Jacqueline Mia Foster for The New York Times) Graph: "Creating a Diversion"In recent years the patent office has collected more in fees than Congress, which sets its budget, has allowed it to keep. Graph tracks the President's budget request, budget approved by congress and fees collected from 1998 into 2004(Fees projected to be collected). Fiscal years ended Sept. 30. (Source by U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PATENTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRADEMARK LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); POLITICS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND PIRACY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



231 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: MediaTalk; 
Reuters Takes Outsourcing to a New Level With Journalists

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Outsourcing has become all the rage in recent years, and India has become a favorite destination for Western companies that want to send jobs to cheaper markets. Companies as different as Delta Air Lines and Dell Computer have hired workers or subcontractors to perform customer service, data entry or other computer-related jobs once done in the United States. 
 Now, Reuters is going a step further. It told its editorial employees in an electronic posting late last week that it planned to hire six journalists in Bangalore, India, to do basic financial reporting on 3,000 small to medium-size American companies. 
 "It's a place where you can get people who understand English, understand financial statements, understand journalism and who are educated to a very high standard and eager to do this kind of work," David Schlesinger, global managing editor of Reuters, said in a telephone interview. They are also relatively inexpensive, he added. 
Though Reuters, which has its headquarters in London, is perhaps best known as an international news agency, it draws most of its revenue from the more than 400,000 people on Wall Street and in other financial centers who use its financial services products. 
The reporters in Bangalore will mostly be responsible for extracting basic financial information from company news releases and quarterly earnings reports. Tasks like interviewing a company president, talking to analysts and covering breaking news, will continue to be done by more experienced journalists working in the countries where those companies operate, Mr. Schlesinger said. 
While the pilot project is intentionally modest, it is related to a much larger effort, announced by Reuters late last year, that will send about 200 of its data-entry jobs to Bangalore from England and the United States.
The Economic Times, an Indian publication, reported last week that other media companies, including Time Warner, Disney and Bertelsmann, were considering outsourcing parts of their information technology and back-office operations to India.
In the message to employees about the journalism project, which will deal with companies Reuters does not cover regularly now, Mr. Schlesinger did not rule out expanding the project.
"I'll keep you informed as how this develops," he wrote. "This could be a very exciting way to get more news on our wires in a more efficient way." JACQUES STEINBERG 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (74%); ETHICS (70%) ETHICS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: REUTERS GROUP PLC (RTRSY) 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (88%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



232 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Thorny Issues Await F.C.C. As It Takes UpInternet Phones 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
The effort to write the rules for Internet telephone service begins this week, and whether it succeeds may ultimately come down to a matter of money.
 On Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission is set to consider approving a notice of proposed rulemaking, the first step in a lengthy process of writing regulations for Internet-based phone services. The commission is also set to issue a final decision on a petition by one of the new Internet phone companies, Pulver.com, which has asked the commission to rule that it does not need to pay interconnection access fees to phone companies for any calls made and received between computers through Internet connections. 
 Experts say that a ruling in Pulver's favor will not have a major effect immediately on the nascent industry because there are so few Internet phone users. But one analyst, Blair Levin of Legg Mason, said that a favorable ruling for Pulver could have a significant effect if a company with a huge consumer base, like Microsoft, were to begin offering computer-to-computer voice services. 
The commission scheduled this week's proceedings after the Justice Department reversed its earlier position that anything less than stringent regulations would pose legal and technical obstacles to the ability of law enforcement agencies to do wiretapping for criminal and terrorism investigations. 
Entrepreneurs and optimists, along with companies like AT&T and Verizon Communications, say that Internet-based telephony could revolutionize the telecommunications industry. The new technology allows calls to be placed or received through the Internet. Voice transmissions are broken down, transmitted in data packets through multiple paths and reassembled on the receiving end, much like e-mail. Users are supposed to find the service indistinguishable from traditional phone connections. 
Although even the most optimistic projections predict that only about a million consumers -- a small fraction of the overall phone market -- may make use of the service by the end of this year, industry executives hope that Internet phones will ultimately become as common as e-mail and will significantly displace traditional wired phone connections in much the same way that cellphones have.
But that cannot happen before Washington decides how the technology ought to be regulated. And the potential obstacles are myriad, because although Internet phone service represents a technological convergence of communications and computers, the regulatory world remains neatly divided: different rules apply to phones, cable, wireless services and data transmission.
The commission proceedings, which will take many months to complete and may outlast the term of the agency's chairman, Michael K. Powell, present a thicket of policy questions. For one thing, if Internet calls are less regulated, traditional phone companies may migrate to the new technology to get relief from telephone regulations that they maintain are overly burdensome.
For Mr. Powell, the proceedings are also significant because he has come through a year of bruising political fights within the agency, on Capitol Hill and in the courts.
Last year he lost a pivotal fight at the agency over telephone access fees, and his decision last summer to loosen the rules governing the size and reach of the nation's largest media companies came under heavy assault in Congress. A federal appeals court in Philadelphia has temporarily blocked those rules. On Wednesday, a three-judge panel will hear oral arguments in what could be the most significant F.C.C. case in years. 
Mr. Powell is seen as generally supporting a deregulatory approach to Internet phone technology. Some of his critics say that if the commission's notice of proposed rulemaking this Thursday is simply a list of questions to be debated -- rather than a detailed statement of the agency's position -- it will suggest that Mr. Powell is having trouble marshalling a majority of commissioners to carry out a deregulatory vision.
"If Powell really wants to be a hero, because he's had a tough time in the last 12 months, he'd line up three votes and put something substantive out rather than simply a mishmash," said Reed E. Hundt, who served as chairman of the commission during the Clinton administration.
Industry executives and analysts say that the biggest issue facing the agency involves the fees that Internet phone companies will have to pay to local phone carriers for connecting their customers' calls to Internet telephone customers.
The interconnection and access charges in the telephone industry have long been the cause of bitter fighting between local and long-distance carriers, and the new technology raises a host of complex and arcane issues that will ultimately play a huge role in the profitability of the new services.
In recent months, lawyers representing both the large and small phone companies have been meeting and negotiating in an effort to come up with a new access fee system. The project, if successful, could relieve the commission of the burden of coming up with a fee system on its own.
"Once you solve the intercarrier compensation issues, everything else is relatively easy," said Mr. Levin, who was a senior official at the commission before he became a regulatory analyst at Legg Mason. Jeffrey A. Citron, chief executive of Vonage, one of the larger Internet phone companies, agreed.
"The problem is how do you get from one system to another?" he said. "The real problem is intercarrier compensation. Everyone can agree no matter who you are that the intercarrier compensation scheme is broken."
The regional Bell operating companies, which have received the bulk of access fee payments from originating and ending phone calls, have also begun to recognize the need to change the fee structure, particularly as those companies gain a bigger share of the long-distance market. 
"Industry access revenue is declining," said Tom Tauke, a senior lobbyist for Verizon, which is also interested in getting a share of that new market. 
"It's not dissimilar from what happened during the development of wireless," Mr. Tauke said. "People said at that time, 'Why would you want to do it and cut into your business?' We're happy we did it." 
The access fee question is not the only important issue before the commission. The commission will have to decide how to apply a host of other regulations to Internet phone services, like fees to support 911 emergency services and rules ensuring that phone service is universally available. 
The proceedings were nearly stalled by objections from federal law enforcement agencies which have complained to the commission that any attempt to deregulate the service could pose legal and technical obstacles to their ability to monitor phone conversations in criminal investigations. 
Under heavy political and industry pressure, the Justice Department, which had complained earlier that it was having problems monitoring Internet-based voice calls, abruptly reversed course last week. It rejected the position of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which had insisted that law enforcement issues had to take priority over other regulatory questions involving broadband access to the Internet. 
In a series of letters and discussions over the last few months, the law enforcement agencies insisted that the commission first resolve the issues surrounding the wiretapping of Internet phone calls. 
Last month, John G. Malcolm, a deputy assistant attorney general who has played a lead role for the Justice Department on the new technology, said that as a result of legal uncertainties created by the commission, prosecutors had encountered obstacles in executing surveillance orders.
And on Jan. 28, Patrick W. Kelley, a deputy general counsel at the F.B.I., asked the commission to resolve the law enforcement issues before considering other new rules and petitions from some Internet phone companies seeking regulatory relief.
But on Feb. 4, Mr. Malcolm sent a letter to the commission that both contradicted Mr. Kelley and reversed the direction of the Justice Department.
"I consider it regrettable that articles appeared last week that were prompted by Pat Kelley's letter," Mr. Malcolm wrote, referring to newspaper articles on the controversy. "While it would obviously be our preference that the F.C.C. decide these issues prior to considering other broadband proceedings, we recognize that this is not practical, and have no desire to prevent the F.C.C. from doing its work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael K. Powell, F.C.C. chairman, faces a lengthy rulemaking. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C5) Chart: "The Issues Before the F.C.C."The Federal Communications Commission plans this week to begin considering rules for new Internet telephone systems, a process that could have a lasting economic impact on the telephone, cable and computer industries. Here are some of the major issues that new rules would need to address and some of the related industry petitions pending at the F.C.C. RULEMAKING QUESTIONS CLASSIFICATION -- Should the new phone technologies be considered telecommunications services subject to the same rules as traditional telephone networks, or should they be declared information services not subject to such rules? PAYMENTS BETWEEN CARRIERS -- Billions of dollars in annual payments are made between carriers to complete telephone calls. Different arrangements apply to wireless. What compensation system should be used for Internet calls in which one of the parties is using a traditional or wireless phone? UNIVERSAL SERVICE -- Local phone monopolies keep rates down in rural and underserved areas through a series of explicit and implicit subsidies. Telephone customers must also contribute to a universal service fund to help expand coverage. What will be the obligations of the new technologies to support universal service? RELATED INDUSTRY PETITIONS PULVER.COM -- Asks the F.C.C. to confirm that computer-to-computer calls are not a "telecommunications service" and therefore should not be subject to the same regulatory obligations and network connection fees as traditional phone service. The F.C.C. is set to rule on the petition on Thursday. AT&T -- Asks the F.C.C. to rule that AT&T does not owe access charges to other companies when it transmits calls over the Internet. VONAGE -- Asks the F.C.C. to declare its service an information service and block the Minnesota utilities commission from regulating it as a phone service.(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); WIRETAPPING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); POLITICS (60%); TERRORISM (51%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); LEGG MASON INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); LM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



233 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: With Costs Rising, Treating Back Pain Often Seems Futile 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Treating back pain costs Americans $26 billion a year, or 2.5 percent of the total health care bill, according to a new study from Duke University, and far more if disability payments, workers' compensation and lost wages are taken into account. The costs are rising, researchers say, as patients get ever more aggressive forms of treatment.
 Back problems are the leading reason for visits to neurologists and orthopedists and the eighth leading reason for visits to doctors over all -- ahead of fever, knee pain, rashes, headaches and checkups for healthy babies. More than 70 percent of adults suffer back pain at some time in their lives, studies show. A third have had it in the past 30 days. 
 Yet for all the costs, for all the hours spent in doctors' offices and operating suites, for all the massage therapy and acupuncture and spinal manipulations, study after study is leading medical experts to ask what, if anything, is doing any good. 
A variety of studies have suggested that in 85 percent of cases it is impossible to say why a person's back hurts, said Dr. Richard Deyo, a professor of medicine and health services at the University of Washington. And most of the time, the pain goes away with or without medical treatment.
"Nearly everyone gets better,nearly everyone improves," said Dr. Deyo, citing evidence from large epidemiological studies. But he cautioned, "Getting better doesn't necessarily mean pain-free."
"For a small number of patients," he added, "surgery can offer quick relief, although even then it is common to have mild symptoms and recurrences."
The Duke researchers, led by Dr. Xeumei Luo, used national data from 1998. Back pain expenses, they say, included $11.1 billion for office visits; $4.5 billion for hospitalization; $3.9 billion for prescription drugs; $4.7 billion for outpatient services; and $1.1 billion for emergency room care, with the rest made up of such things as medical devices. The total, $26 billion, was a 30 percent increase from 1977 after adjusting for inflation.
"It's not like there's an explosion of new back pain," said Dr. Steven Atlas, an assistant professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, who investigates back treatments. "The number of cases isn't increasing; the cost per case is increasing. There is a lot more that is being done, but the issue is, Is it helping or not?"
Back pain has always been around, like headaches, or the common cold. What has changed, doctors say, are people's expectations.
"People say, 'I'm not going to put up with it,' " Dr. Deyo said. "And we in the medical profession have turned to ever more aggressive medication, narcotic medication, surgery, more invasive surgery." 
But studies find little evidence that patients are better off for all the treatment.
Researchers asked, for example, what is the meaning of disk abnormalities, so often seen when a back patient undergoes an magnetic resonance imaging, or M.R.I.? So they examined people with no back pain. One study, of 98 people, found that two-thirds had problems like bulging or protruding disks, herniated disks and degenerated disks. A third had more than one abnormal disk.
Sometimes a problem like a herniated, or ruptured, disk causes the pain, and surgery can relieve it, said the study's author, Dr. Michael N. Brant-Zawadzki, a radiologist at Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. But usually, he added, it may be more coincidence than cause and effect when an M.R.I. finds an abnormal disk in someone with back pain. And even when a herniated disk causes the pain, the problem often goes away by itself.
It is easy to see the appeal of an M.R.I., said Dr. Stanley J. Bigos, an emeritus professor of orthopedic surgery and environmental health at the University of Washington. "The reality is, patients want an answer, the doctor wants to get the patient out of the room, and the hypotheses start to flow." 
Other studies have indicated that the development of abnormal disks is usually inherited. But there were no links to occupation, sports injuries or weak muscles, said Dr. Nortin Hadler, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina.
Researchers then asked whether patients who have M.R.I.'s do any better. 
In a study published last year in The Journal of the American Medical Association, Dr. Deyo and his colleagues randomly assigned 380 patients with back pain to X-rays or M.R.I.'s. X-rays can reveal tumors or fractures but not abnormal disks.
Half the M.R.I. patients had disk abnormalities, and the imaging patients, as a group, ended up with more intensive treatment -- more doctor visits, physical therapy, acupuncture and chiropractic manipulations as well as more surgery. And while they were happier with their care, they fared no better than the X-ray patients. Within a few months, most patients in each group were feeling better and wereback at work.
Many in each group continued to feel some pain but were living with it. "Many continue to have grumbling symptoms and occasional flare-ups," Dr. Deyo said. "Their pain was better but certainly not gone."
Since no one knows the cause of most back pain, Dr. Hadler said, imaging is not much help. Nor are most treatments. "Maybe you're better off not going to a doctor," he said.
Dr. Deyo concurs that while a small proportion of patients may be helped by surgery, medical care may not be necessary for most.
Surgery, too, is under new scrutiny, with a national study getting started at 11 medical centers. About 1,000 patients with the problems that most often lead to surgery will be randomly assigned to have surgery or not. The problems under study are herniated disks, spinal stenosis, which is a narrowing of the spinal canal that usually occurs with arthritis and aging, and degenerative spondylolithesis, a slipped vertebra. 
One of the investigators in the study is Dr. James N. Weinstein, a Dartmouth professor of orthopedics and community and family medicine and the editor in chief of Spine, the professional journal that published the Duke report in its January issue. 
"I've met with two groups who said they fear the results will take away their practice," Dr. Weinstein said. "I don't know how to deal with that. I don't know what the results will be."
Back experts say it is clear that surgery can make some patients feel better immediately.
"Let's say you have a herniated disk and let's say you have leg pain and let's say you are as miserable as hell and you convince somebody to operate on you," said Dr. Michael Modic, chairman of the radiology department at the Cleveland Clinic. "You have a 95 percent chance of waking up with no pain." 
Most people will get better anyway, Dr. Modic said, but surgery can "reduce the symptomatic time period." 
Dr. Thomas Errico, president of the North American Spine Society, says surgery is a last resort. His patients have X-rays or M.R.I.'s. They try over-the-counter anti-inflammatory drugs. They are given an exercise program, or get muscle relaxants or painkilling injections. They are told to stretch and to get their weight under control. They might get a steroid injected into the spine to reduce inflammation.
"That's what the vast majority of the 3,700 members of the North American Spine Society do," Dr. Errico said. "The vast majority discourage surgery or don't offer surgery as the first recourse."
Whether patients benefit from treatment or whether their pain eases on its own, back experts agree that 10 percent of cases are intractable. Dr. Rowland Hazard, a professor of orthopedics and medicine at Dartmouth, estimates that 80 percent to 90 percent of spending on back pain "is devoted to this 10 percent who don't get well."
Their prognosis is disheartening. Those with disabling pain for three or four months have just a 10 percent to 20 percent chance of getting better in the next year. 
For this group, some doctors are now advocating a different approach altogether: teaching people to live with pain, to put aside the understandable fear that any motion will aggravate their injury. They have to learn, Dr. Weinstein said, that "hurt doesn't mean harm." 
In programs often known as functional restoration, that is the goal. Patients are trained in strength, flexibility and endurance. They are counseled about their fears of re-injury and about anxiety and depression. 
It can be difficult to get them back to work, noted Dr. Bigos, of the University of Washington, because many left their jobs on disability and had bitter disputes with their former employers or with insurance companies. "Usually, lines have been drawn in the sand by one or both sides," he said. 
But success is possible, said Dr. Thomas Mayer, director of a clinic called Pride, for Productive Rehabilitation Institute of Dallas for Ergonomics. Among the 3,500 back patients who entered his one- to two-month program and completed it, almost all returned to work and nearly half went back to their original employer, Dr. Mayer said.
"We deal with it face on," Dr. Mayer said. "What are you going to do for the rest of your life? What are you getting from being disabled? What would you get if you were not disabled?"
The lesson, Dr. Weinstein says, is that "you can have pain and still function." And while there may appear to be more treatments that ever, he adds, "more isn't necessarily better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. James N. Weinstein is the editor in chief of Spine, the professional journal that published the Duke report on back pain in America. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. A14) Chart: "Many Appointments for Back Pain"General exam: 68.8Progress visit: 39.8Cough: 27.1Postoperative visit: 24.0Routine prenatal exam: 19.8Medication: 16.5Throat symptoms: 15.1Back symptoms: 13.7Stomach pain, cramps: 13.6Vision problems: 13.6Knee symptoms: 12.7Diabetes: 12.5Well-baby exam: 12.4 It was the eighth leading reason for doctor's office visits in the United States in 2001. Figures are in millions. (Sources by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (79%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); MASSAGE SERVICES (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); COMMON COLD (76%); CHILDREN (75%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



234 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Lost in Credibility Gulch 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The question: What can we believe?
 The president is genial enough, but it might be time for a bipartisan truth squad to follow him around, sorting out the facts from his musings, speculations, fantasies and mis-rememberings. 
 Iraq has shown us the trouble that can lurk in the gaps between reality and whatever it is that George W. Bush believes or says. Tim Russert, during his hourlong interview with Mr. Bush on NBC's "Meet the Press," displayed a quote from the president's address to the nation last March 17: 
"Intelligence gathered by this and other governments leaves no doubt that the Iraq regime continues to possess and conceal some of the most lethal weapons ever devised."
More than 500 American troops and thousands of innocent Iraqi civilians have been killed in the war that was launched on that faulty data. And the war goes on.
"I expected there to be stockpiles of weapons," Mr. Bush told Mr. Russert.
Here at home, the president has been as wrong about jobs as he was about weapons of mass destruction. More than two million jobs have vanished on Mr. Bush's watch and the recent uptick in job creation has, by all accounts, been meager.
The tax cuts signed into law by Mr. Bush in May 2003 were euphemistically dubbed the Jobs and Growth Act. Workers are still waiting for the jobs. Despite a surge in the economy, we've actually been going backward with regard to employment. There are 700,000 fewer jobs now than when the recovery from the recession began back in November 2001.
If I were advising the president, I'd suggest he form his own truth squad to vet his policies and public statements and advise him on ways to maintain a high level of credibility. That might have helped him avoid the fiasco over the cost of his recent "reform" of Medicare.
The bill, which established a prescription drug benefit, was supposed to cost no more than $400 billion over the next decade. The White House had a hard time rounding up support from conservatives who thought even that was too much. Less than two months after the bill was signed, the administration disclosed that it would actually cost an estimated $534 billion, one-third more than the original estimate.
Last week the president unveiled a $2.4 trillion budget that hardly anyone, on the left or the right, believes is credible. Among other things, it includes an increase in military spending of 7 percent, or $26.5 billion, to $401.7 billion. But it does not include the cost of continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan!
Those estimated costs -- scores of billions of dollars -- will not be made public until after the November elections.
Samuel Butler said, "I care about truth not for truth's sake but for my own."
Mr. Bush presented himself in 2000 as an honest, straight-shooting Texan, an aw-shucks kind of guy whose word, unlike that of the sitting president ("I did not have sexual relations . . ."), could always be trusted.
The credibility that he enjoyed during that campaign, and which reached a peak in the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, has steadily eroded since then. He said he was a compassionate conservative, but he has hammered programs designed to assist the poorest and most vulnerable among us. His administration has taken a blowtorch to the environment. And his fiscal policies are so outlandish that liberals, moderates and conservatives are asking if he's taken leave of his senses.
During the run-up to war, the public heard ominous references to mushroom clouds and was encouraged to believe there was a link between Saddam Hussein and Sept. 11.
It's time to put an end to the fantasies and the deceit, which have landed us in a quagmire overseas and the equivalent of fiscal quicksand at home.
It's not too much to ask that the president of the United States speak the clear truth about his policies and their implications. Mr. Bush would do himself and his country a favor by establishing a closer relationship with reality and a more intense commitment to the truth.
Those Americans who have put their trust in the president deserve nothing less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); TAX LAW (65%); MEDICARE (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



235 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Bush States His Case 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
George W. Bush's goal in stepping down from his presidential pedestal and into the political hothouse of "Meet the Press" was to frame the election on his capacity to make the tough, unpopular decisions that he thinks are in the best interests of the national security and economic health of the United States.
 Mr. Bush, who opened the window a little wider into his thinking about his decision to take the nation to war with Iraq, tried to use his unusual hourlong encounter in the Oval Office with Tim Russert of NBC to make a larger case for his presidency and, by extension, what he hopes will be seen as his sincerity. 
 The moment that seemed to capture that strategy came early on in the interview, when Mr. Bush said he wanted to share "my sentiment" as he marched toward his confrontation with Saddam Hussein. 
"It's important for people to understand the context in which I made a decision in the Oval Office," Mr. Bush said. "I'm dealing with a world in which we have gotten struck by terrorists with airplanes, and we get intelligence saying that, you know, we want to harm America. And the worst nightmare scenario for any president is to realize that these kind of terrorist networks have the capacity to arm up with some of these deadly weapons, and they strike us."
The "most solemn responsibility" of an American president, Mr. Bush concluded, "is to keep this country secure."
It is too early to say if Mr. Bush's interview worked the magic he wanted -- and the Republicans will be polling to find out -- and Democrats instantly criticized the president's comments during the interview as more backpedaling on his reasons for going to war.
"What we saw today was an administration with shifting rationale for a questionable war," Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said through his spokesman, Jim Manley.
But many of Mr. Bush's supporters insisted that he had made a critical connection to voters.
"He made a better connection today, period, than I'd seen before," said Michael K. Deaver, the image maker for Ronald Reagan who has on occasion advised the current administration. "I think he had his arguments down, they didn't sound like they were rehearsed, but clearly what he believed. He basically said, 'I am who I am and I'm not going to change.' And that's a great strength."
Still, the great risk for Mr. Bush, Democrats and Republicans said on Sunday, is that he could just as easily lose as win an election that turns into a referendum on his judgment and character. Mr. Bush is particularly vulnerable, they said, if the Democrats raise enough doubts about his credibility on the war and on the economy, which now faces the highest federal budget deficit in history.
The Democratic front-runner, Senator John Kerry, made clear that was his strategy early on Sunday, when he issued a statement on Mr. Bush's performance.
"This morning on 'Meet the Press,' President Bush said his decision to go to war with Iraq when he did was because Saddam Hussein had 'the ability to make weapons,' " Mr. Kerry said. "This is a far cry from what the president and his administration told the American people throughout 2002. Back then, President Bush repeatedly told the American people that Saddam Hussein 'has got chemical weapons.' "
He added, "And it was on that basis that he sent American sons and daughters off to war."
Whatever the result of the interview, it clearly showed that the White House has decided it cannot just throw $100 million in advertising at a Democratic nominee and try to turn him into George McGovern, the liberal trounced in the 1972 election by President Richard M. Nixon. If anything, the interview showed that Mr. Bush has concluded that he must make a persuasive argument not only for his presidency, but in effect his own electability.
The interview put on display what sometimes seemed an odd hybrid of Mr. Bush as both president and presidential candidate. If he seemed to descend from his commander-in-chief mountaintop by dueling with Mr. Russert -- the Washington insider who usually interrogates people who seek rather than sit in the Oval Office -- he also did not entirely assume the role of a candidate willing to engage in partisan combat.
When Mr. Russert baited Mr. Bush with a comment from Mr. Kerry that Mr. Kerry was "appalled" by "the president's lack of knowledge," Mr. Bush simply smiled, called it "politics" and added that "if you close your eyes and listen carefully to what you just said, it sounds like the year 2000 all over again."
If the response appeared tentative, Mr. Bush's campaign officials insisted it was all part of the plan, at least at this point in the campaign. "He didn't take that bit because he understands that people want a leader in Washington, they want somebody who is not going to lead by responding to polls and who is not going to engage in attack politics," said Gerald L. Parsky, the chairman of Mr. Bush's campaign in California.
Another Bush campaign adviser said the goal of the White House was not only to explain Mr. Bush's decision-making, but also to show him as more human and humble than his warrior image suggests.
The adviser said he was optimistic that the polling numbers -- some of which show Mr. Bush trailing Mr. Kerry in a hypothetical election match-up by as much as seven percentage points -- would improve for the president after the interview. (Officially, the Bush White House says it pays no attention to polls.)
"I think that will make him a little less vulnerable to charges of arrogance and hardheadedness," the adviser said, hopefully, "and that he's unwilling to ever acknowledge mistakes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush being interviewed on "Meet the Press" on NBC. (Photo by The White House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TIM RUSSERT (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



236 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: To Many Insiders, Russert Has Hottest Seat 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, had to do it, twice, as did Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. Bill Clinton had to do it in 1992 and 1996, as did Al Gore and George W. Bush, the candidate, in 2000.
 Now George W. Bush, the president, has done it again: taking the hot seat on the NBC program "Meet the Press" with Tim Russert. 
 For the fourth straight election cycle, the candidates who are trying to win, or to keep, the presidency, have gone on the program to try to right listing campaigns (Dr. Dean), prove their mettle (Mr. Edwards) or set the record straight (Mr. Bush) with the Washington insiders who tune to the morning interview shows each Sunday. 
Mr. Bush's appearance went beyond politics yesterday, as he addressed crucial issues: the lead-up to the Iraq war, unemployment and the growing budget deficit.
But with a chorus of Democratic candidates hammering the president daily, his aides acknowledged that he chose to go on "Meet the Press" in part to demonstrate that he could face tough questions and perhaps even put some behind him.
"Meet the Press" would seem a logical place to go in terms of reach alone. It has the largest audience of the Sunday-morning programs, averaging 4.4 million viewers a week last quarter. But an appearance on any program would have drawn reams of attention.
"Obviously, he could go on 'Oprah,' " said Suzy DeFrancis, the White House deputy assistant for communications. "I think the president felt that was a forum in which he could reach a large number of people and that Tim was known to ask probing questions."
That Mr. Russert, 53, has such a tough-guy reputation irritates his competitors. Executives at rival networks have long grumbled that their star interviewers can give just as good as he can. 
Several strategists said they believed George Stephanopoulos of "This Week" on ABC, Bob Schieffer, the moderator of "Face the Nation" on CBS, and Chris Wallace, the moderator of "Fox News Sunday," were important parts of the interview mix. But Mr. Russert is seen as a challenging interviewer with a style informed by the life he left 20 years ago as a lawyer and Democratic political operative for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, both of New York.
"There has been an aura of Russert built up, there's a perception, that he asks the toughest questions.," said Jenny Backus, a Democratic strategist who is not aligned with a candidate. 
By appearing on "Meet the Press," said David Doak, a Democratic consultant who is also unaligned with a campaign, a candidate can portray himself as willing to take all of the heat the news media can dole out. A decision to appear on another Sunday-morning program, conversely, can sometimes be read as ducking Mr. Russert. 
Some rivals accused Mr. Edwards of just that when he did not appear on "Meet the Press" for more than a year after receiving poor reviews for an interview there in May 2002. 
When he made a stronger appearance in November, "in certain ways it was a benchmark of his evolution as a candidate," said David Axelrod, a media strategist for Mr. Edwards.
In June, Dr. Dean was roundly criticized for flubbing explanations of his positions on "Meet the Press." He did not return to the program until this month, when his advisers decided he had to demonstrate he was confident enough to enter Mr. Russert's Coliseum.
A similar calculation went into Mr. Bush's appearance on Sunday. Mr. Russert said he has a standing interview request filed with the White House, but, he said, he renewed it a few weeks ago, initially trying to land the president for a January program marking Mr. Russert's 12th year as moderator.
"I continued to make the case that if you really want to have an opportunity for serious people across the country in the millions to listen to you and make a judgment about serious issues, you need a credible forum," Mr. Russert said.
He refused to say what he thought about Mr. Bush's performance. In a column posted on OpinionJournal.com, Peggy Noonan, a speechwriter for President Reagan, wrote of Mr. Bush's interview, "I am one of those who feel his performance was not impressive."
On the Fox News Channel, Pete Snyder, a Republican strategist, said the president had proved "he's a firm leader." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); IRAQ WAR (72%); BUDGETS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); LAWYERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (88%); TIM RUSSERT (79%); AL GORE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



237 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Anti-U.S. Plea to Al Qaeda Is Discovered in Iraq
American officials displayed a detailed proposal that they said came from insurgents inside Iraq written to senior leaders of Al Qaeda asking for help in waging a "sectarian war" in Iraq in the next months. A1

Several of the biggest political parties in Iraq say they are determined to keep their well-armed militias, who number in the tens of thousands, despite American opposition to the idea. The Iraqi parties contend that the militias remain necessary in light of the lack of security throughout the country. A1

Putin Challenger Disappears
One of Vladimir V. Putin's challengers in next month's presidential election, Ivan P. Rybkin, is missing, and the police and security services announced that they had begun a search for him. A3

Israel to Adjust Settler Barrier
Israel is working to reroute parts of its West Bank separation barrier to make it less burdensome on the Palestinians and more acceptable to the United States, a senior aide to Israel's prime minister said. A3

Swiss Stiffen Crime Laws
Swiss voters approved a measure that would require the country to put into effect some of Europe's harshest laws on the punishment of violent criminals and pedophiles. A4

New Australia Trade Deal
The United States completed negotiations for a free trade agreement with Australia, and proponents called it a landmark deal that could increase American manufacturing exports by as much as $2 billion annually. A5

Libya Plan Linked to Pakistan
Investigators have determined that the nuclear weapon blueprints found in Libya from the Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan were of his own relatively crude type of bomb -- not the more advanced models that Pakistan developed and successfully tested, American and European arms experts have said in interviews. A7

NATIONAL A8-19

Bush Defends the War And His Presidency
President Bush offered a preview of the way he will defend his presidency, justifying the war in Iraq even though no banned weapons have been found there, saying he has acted aggressively to help the economy and contending that the nation can trust him as a steady leader. A1

Democrats See a Unified Party
Democratic leaders, once fearful that their presidential nominee would inherit a demoralized and divided party, said the party seemed poised to nominate a candidate with broad support from all factions. A1

Senator John Kerry won a solid victory in the Maine Democratic caucuses, giving him a sweep in the voting this weekend. A16

California Execution Nears
California is set to put to death a man convicted in 1985 of killing four people, in what, barring a reprieve, would be the first execution under Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. A8

Criticism of Mad Cow Testing
Testing for mad cow disease in the United States is more than adequate, the government says. Critics say that there are too few tests and that the meat industry has too much control. A8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

The Cost of Healing a Bad Back
Treating back pain costs Americans $26 billion a year, according to a study from Duke University. Yet medical experts are asking whether treatments are doing any good. A1

Gene Tied to Heart Attack Risk
A variant gene that doubles the risk of heart attack and stroke among people who carry it has been found by researchers at Decode Genetics in Iceland. A8

Clues to Mars' Geology
NASA's rover Opportunity took more than 100 photographs over the weekend and gathered readings on the rocks in search of clues to the site's geological history. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

West Side Stadium Plan Is Questioned by Some
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki are poised to announce plans to build a $1.5 billion football stadium on the far West Side of Manhattan that would also serve as the centerpiece of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics. But some in business and civic circles are saying that the stadium would do little for the city's economy other than enrich team owners. B1

Columbia Creates Arts Post
Gregory Mosher has been named director of the new "University Arts Initiatives" at Columbia University, a post created by Columbia's president, Lee C. Bollinger, to build the arts into the lives of students and get Columbia more involvedin the arts. B3

Trade Center Dispute in Court
A long-brewing court battle is expected to begin between the developer Larry A. Silverstein and two dozen insurers over how much money will be available for rebuilding the vast commercial complex at the World Trade Center site. B3

Fire Captain Criticized
Terrence M. Sweeney, a Staten Island fire captain who delayed reporting a brawl on New Year's Eve that left one firefighter critically injured, had been drinking with other firefighters the night the fight erupted, the fire commissioner and an official with the city's Department of Investigation said. B5

FASHION B9

ARTS E1-10

Grammy Awards
At the 42nd Grammy Awards, the innovative rap duo OutKast won both best rap album and album of the year for "Speakerboxxx/The Love Below." The R&B star Beyonce dominated the show, sweeping up five awards. Also receiving accolades was Justin Timberlake, who received two awards in the show's first hour, including best pop album, for "Justified." E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

F.C.C. and Internet Phones
The Federal Communications Commission is set to begin a lengthy process of writing regulations for Internet-based phone services, and is expected to issue a final decision on whether one of the new Internet phone companies will pay interconnection access fees to phone companies. C1

Hard Day in Stewart Trial
Martha Stewart's lawyer, Robert G. Morvillo, faces the daunting task of discrediting the prosecution's star witness, Douglas Faneuil. In doing so, Mr. Morvillo may try to isolate Ms. Stewart from Peter E. Bacanovic, arguing that she had no part in any possible cover-up involving him and Mr. Faneuil. C1

The Grooming of an Anchor
NBC News executives have been working to educate viewers about Brian Williams, who is poised to take over Tom Brokaw's anchor slot on "NBC Nightly News" sometime in late 2004. C1

Business Digest C1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES B8

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Mr. Bush's version; grading the mayor on schools.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D8
Metro Diary B4
Bridge E5
TV Listings E8
Crossword E6
Weather B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CRIMINAL LAW (71%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (62%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (60%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



238 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Indians Fearing Repercussions Of U.S. Technology Outsourcing

BYLINE:  By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BOMBAY, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The rising political reaction in the United States to the loss of some American jobs to workers overseas is creating a whiplash effect among India's leading technology companies.
 "The dramatic buildup of opposition before the U.S. elections is disturbing," Jaithirth Rao, the chairman of a leading software and call center company, MphasiS BFL Ltd., said in an interview at the three-day annual meeting of Nasscom, India's software industry trade association. 
 MphasiS, based in Bombay, has 6,000 employees and its operations spread across Bangalore and Pune. More recently, it has expanded to Shanghai and Tijuana on the Mexican border with the United States. 
Companies like MphasiS are the biggest beneficiaries of a movement among many of the largest corporations in the United States to shift certain white-collar work to low-cost India, where local companies are adding thousands of skilled, English-speaking employees every quarter to meet the increased demand. At the same time, companies like General Electric and Microsoft are expanding their operations in India on everything from basic customer service to high-end research and development. 
The political reaction in the United States against such outsourcing has built rapidly in the last year; nearly two dozen states have voted on legislation to ban government work from being contracted to non-Americans. 
More recently, the United States Senate approved a bill aimed at restricting outsourcing of contracts from two federal departments. The House has not acted on similar legislation. 
"We are concerned that this is federal legislation, and that it is sponsored by a Republican," said Kiran Karnik, president of the software association. "Republicans are traditionally free marketers."
Mr. Karnik, who has been vocal in promoting the cost-saving advantages of India's work force, said he was perturbed that "all of the election-year rhetoric equates offshoring with job losses."
Mr. Karnik and others also point to the Web site of John F. Kerry, the Democratic presidential front-runner and traditionally a strong supporter of free trade, who has outlined what companies here see as a plan to investigate and prevent outsourcing. 
For all the alarms being sounded here, however, officials acknowledged that the effect of the proposed legislation in the United States was likely to be minimal. 
India's rapidly expanding technology and services industry earned revenue of about $12 billion in the fiscal year that ended last March, and $9.5 billion of that came from exports. In the year ending March 2004, the industry is projected to grow to about $15.5 billion, with exports of $12 billion. 
Over 70 percent of India's software export revenue comes from companies based in the United States, but less than 2 percent of India's export earnings comes from work for American governments, and the software and related services industry accounts for only 3 percent of India's economic output. 
Still, the industry is increasingly associated with the Indian economy's upbeat mood, and its leaders are anxious. As fears of white-collar job losses in the United States continue to rise, they say, the issue is expected to become a sticking point in trade negotiations between India and the United States. 
Gartner, the technology research firm, predicts that the outsourcing reaction will continue to escalate at least through the fall.
"The aggressive campaign against moving work to low-cost destinations will become a political imperative for the presidential campaign," said Partha Iyengar, a Gartner vice president for research who is based in Bombay.
Protectionism dominated the proceedings of the meeting here. Several sessions were specifically dedicated to discussions on dealing with anti-outsourcing sentiment. 
The conference tone was set in the inaugural address by Daniel T. Griswold, associate director of the Cato Institute's Center for Trade Policy, based in Washington.
Mr. Griswold told his audience, hundreds of Indian executives, that the recent American political moves sent negative signals. "To restrict outsourcing through legislation is bad policy because, ultimately, Americans are going to get less service for their tax dollars," he said.
American corporate customers of Indian software companies were not conspicuous at this year's annual meeting. Corporations in the United States, and the Indian companies they contract with, kept a low profile. 
But Cognizant Technology Solutions, a company based in Teaneck, N.J., has 70 percent of its development operations in India and said it was still seeing five to eight customers and prospective clients from the United States every week at its offices in Chennai in southern India.
In a further indication that outsourcing is likely to be an increasingly touchy subject here, Robert Blake, the United Statescharge d'affaires in New Delhi, said last week that India's best response was to open its markets wider to help create other jobs in the United States.
Mr. Blake's remarks rankled India's government. "That is not the way to go," said Yashwant Sinha, the external affairs minister. "It smacks of retaliation that, 'If you don't open up, we will impose restrictions,"' Mr. Sinha told reporters last week.
"The U.S. has to realize that by outsourcing, its companies remain competitive and save jobs," Mr. Sinha said. 
Mr. Iyengar of Gartner said India might not go as far as an eye-for-an-eye approach, but he added, "I see greater confidence among Indian officials to engage in an equal-trade dialogue with the U.S. on this issue." 
Still, most of those involved in the business here say they are hoping that common economic interests will override political differences that could lead to trade protectionism. 
For now, the message to India's outsourcing specialists, Mr. Rao of MphasiS said, is simple: "Don't panic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Spectramind, a call center in Powai, outside Bombay, employees assist American customers. Such outsourcing of white-collar work is under fire in the United States. (Photo by Santosh Verma for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CALL CENTERS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (57%); WEB SITES (50%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: MPHASIS LTD (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: MPHASIS (NSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (95%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



239 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT OFFERS DEFENSE ON IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
President Bush on Sunday offered a preview of how he would defend his presidency, justifying the war in Iraq even though no banned weapons had been found there, saying he has acted aggressively to help the economy and presenting himself as a steady leader in perilous times.
 In a rare broadcast interview that he agreed to do as his poll numbers were falling and Democrats were increasingly hopeful of ousting him in November, Mr. Bush said on "Meet the Press" that he was far from alone in judging Saddam Hussein to be a threat. He rebutted accusations that he did not complete all of his duties while in the National Guard in 1972. He portrayed job growth as strengthening and did not rule out the possibility of more tax cuts. 
 The president's appearance came on a day when the White House also said Mr. Bush believed that existing contract law could ensure many of the rights gay partners are seeking in civil unions or marriage, suggesting that the administration was preparing to step fully into an issue of great importance to his conservative base. Page A15. 
Questioned at length about the war for the first time since the former chief weapons inspector in Iraq said last month that Mr. Hussein did not have stockpiles of unconventional weapons, Mr. Bush acknowledged that he might have been wrong in asserting repeatedly before the invasion that Iraq possessed such weapons. But he suggested that the threat was no less urgent because Mr. Hussein was capable of producing banned chemical and biological agents -- and might one day have a nuclear bomb -- and could pass them along to terrorists intent on striking the United States.
"We thought he had weapons," Mr. Bush said in the one-hour interview, which was taped on Saturday. "The international community thought he had weapons. But he had the capacity to make a weapon and then let that weapon fall into the hands of a shadowy terrorist network." Excerpts, Page A19. 
Mr. Bush agreed to the interview after he and his aides concluded that he needed to respond to months of Democratic attacks, Republican officials said. They said he also had to deal with the statements by the former chief weapons inspector, David A. Kay, that the White House had been wrong before the war in asserting that Iraq had unconventional weapons. Some Republicans said Mr. Bush had been too much on the defensive in the past few weeks, and they had urged the White House to accelerate its schedule for going into full-scale campaign mode.
Mr. Bush's job approval ratings have been dropping, and Democrats are increasingly rallying around their front-runner, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, who has led or run even with Mr. Bush in hypothetical matchups in some recent polls. Those developments have made it increasingly difficult for the president to stick to his strategy of presenting himself as focused on dealing with the nation's problems rather than on his re-election.
But if Mr. Bush went on the Sunday morning news show as a candidate, he was a tentative one not yet ready to give up the advantages of incumbency -- including the Oval Office setting for the interview -- for a more freewheeling but less presidential campaign. He said he did not know Mr. Kerry when they overlapped for two years at Yale, and dismissed Democratic attacks on him as "politics."
Democrats and liberal groups responded to the interview with further attacks on Mr. Bush's credibility, suggesting that the president exaggerated the degree of cooperation between Iraq and Al Qaeda and disputing many of the particulars about his economic record. Mr. Kerry issued a statement saying Mr. Bush should level with people about why he had gone to war. 
"Americans need to be able to trust their president, and they deserve the truth," Mr. Kerry said.
Mr. Bush was most assertive in trying to rebut what some strategists in both parties said could be a potent line of attack against him, the charge that he skipped out on some of his National Guard duties not long after Mr. Kerry served heroically in Vietnam.
"They're just wrong," Mr. Bush said of reports that there was no record of him reporting to his unit in Alabama in 1972, while he was working on a Republican Senate race. "There may be no evidence, but I did report. Otherwise I wouldn't have been honorably discharged."
Mr. Bush said he was "absolutely" willing to have all his service records made public. But he acknowledged that so far no one has been able to find records from the relevant period of his service.
At a news conference in Richmond, Va., Mr. Kerry said he did not know whether Mr. Bush had completed all his Guard duties, but he added that "just because you get an honorable discharge does not in fact answer that question."
Asked why he should get a second term given that the economy has lost 2.2 million jobs since he took office, Mr. Bush said his presidency has coincided with "a time of tremendous stress on our economy" and that he had acted aggressively, mainly through tax cuts, to turn things around.
The economy generated 112,000 new jobs last month, a respectable performance in the view of economists but a level well below what would normally be expected at this point in a recovery. In calling for repeated rounds of tax cuts since Mr. Bush took office, the White House implied, sometimes with detailed projections, that the reductions would lead directly to substantial job growth. Democrats say the main effect of the tax cuts has been to help plunge the government into deficit and leave the nation unable to afford other needs.
Much of the interview covered Iraq and, implicitly, whether Mr. Bush had lost credibility by having asserted that Iraq had weapons that it now appears not to have.
When the interviewer, Tim Russert, said it "apparently is not the case" that Iraq had the weapons Mr. Bush had said it had before the war, the president responded, "Correct." Mr. Bush later mentioned the possibility that the weapons might have been hidden or moved to another country.
Mr. Bush said the intelligence about Iraq's weapons was the best available, matched what foreign governments were saying and was the basis for similar judgments about Iraq made by President Bill Clinton and Congress, although some Democrats have said the intelligence they received was stripped of the caveats that the intelligence agencies had attached to it.
The president said he went to war only after the United Nations had issued an ultimatum and only "because we had run the diplomatic string in Iraq," an assertion that many other nations and opponents of the war in the United States have disputed.
The defense he laid out in the interview did not include the sense of immediate urgency he and his administration had attached to Iraq before the war. Mr. Bush told "Meet the Press" that Mr. Hussein "could have developed a nuclear weapon over time -- I'm not saying immediately, but over time -- which would then have put us in what position?"
In 2002, as the administration was building its case against Mr. Hussein, Vice President Dick Cheney said, "On the nuclear question, many of us are convinced that Saddam will acquire such weapons fairly soon." Dr. Kay told the Senate Armed Services Committee last month that Iraq did not have a "reconstituted, full-blown nuclear program."
But, in keeping both with his conception of his job after the Sept. 11 attacks and his political strategy of presenting himself as an experienced, steady commander in chief, Mr. Bush emphasized that he is leading the nation through great danger.
"I'm a war president," he said at one point. At another, he said, "I have shown the American people I can sit here in the Oval Office when times are tough and be steady and make good decisions, and I look forward to articulating what I want to do the next four years if I'm fortunate enough to be their president."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about the issue of gay marriage referred imprecisely to reports of a discussion on an airplane trip between President Bush and Representative Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina. (The error was repeated in a front-page cross-reference on Monday about an interview the president gave to "Meet the Press" on NBC about issues in the presidential campaign.) While Mr. DeMint did say that he and Mr. Bush talked about having contracts and agreements in relationships, the congressman said that Mr. Bush did not refer specifically to gay partnerships; Mr. DeMint said the discussion centered on marriage in general.
The headline reference to "options on gay rights" also overstated Mr. DeMint's description of Mr. Bush's position. The congressman said Mr. Bush was open to various types of agreements in relationships; he did not say the president was open to states' bolstering gay rights.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Interviewed in the Oval Office by Tim Russert on "Meet The Press" on NBC, President Bush said he had proved he is a steady leader in tough times. (Photo by The White House)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); TIM RUSSERT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



240 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE SOUTH; 
In Virginia, Kerry Seeks Victory in Edwards's Backyard

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Written off in this state just a month ago, Senator John Kerry holds the upper hand in Virginia's Democratic primary on Tuesday. His aides say a victory would undercut Senator John Edwards's Southern base and President Bush's strength among military voters. 
 Mr. Kerry has clearly benefited here from the fading candidacy of Howard Dean, once considered unbeatable in the more liberal northern suburbs, and from the aggressive campaign of Gen. Wesley K. Clark, which has cut into Mr. Edwards's support in the more conservative south side, analysts and Democratic officials said. 
 Mr. Kerry's strong status in the state -- indicated by recent polls that show him leading Mr. Edwards by nine points or more -- was bolstered Sunday when Gov. Mark Warner endorsed him outside the governor's mansion in Richmond. Mr. Warner, Virginia's first Democratic governor in 12 years, ran well in both urban and rural areas in 2001, and his support could sway undecided voters toward Mr. Kerry, of Massachusetts. 
Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards attended church in Virginia on Sunday and are scheduled to return to the state on Monday. The two campaigns have flooded the airwaves with television commercials, though only Mr. Kerry's are running in the Washington suburbs, where airtime is expensive. 
Dr. Dean has all but conceded Virginia to concentrate on Michigan, where he placed second on Saturday, and Wisconsin, which selects delegates on Feb. 17. Though his core supporters are expected to remain loyal, undecided voters who had been leaning his way seem to be shifting toward Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards, Democrats said.
"The hard part for us is Kerry's momentum," said Donald S. Beyer, a former lieutenant governor in Virginia who is national treasurer of the Dean campaign. "And it's exaggerated by not having television money or having our candidate in the state."
Advisers to Mr. Edwards, acknowledging Mr. Kerry's surge, have tried to keep expectations here low, contending that Mr. Edwards does not need to win Virginia or Tennessee to slow the Kerry bandwagon. They say Mr. Edwards, of neighboring North Carolina, needs only strong second-place showings to demonstrate that he is the lone viable alternative to Mr. Kerry. Tennessee also holds its primary on Tuesday.
"Our goal is to get Senator Edwards one on one" against Mr. Kerry, said Harrison Hickman, Mr. Edwards's pollster.
In many ways, Mr. Edwards's populist message would seem tailor-made for Virginia's south side, which straddles the North Carolina border. There, laid-off textile workers and struggling farmers have felt the economic pinch, and as Mr. Edwards frequently points out, 15 Virginia textile mills have closed since 1997.
But it is not clear if his oratory resonates in the densely populated northern suburbs, where high-technology companies flourish, voters are more affluent and unemployment is relatively low. This area, once thought to be Dr. Dean's stronghold, is tilting toward Mr. Kerry, analysts say. 
"Virginia is the only Southern state where populism never took root," said Larry Sabato, director of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics. "Kerry is strong in north Virginia and the urban corridor. And that's who votes."
Virginia is important to Mr. Kerry because it is in Mr. Edwards's backyard and because it has a high number of veterans,military retirees and active-duty soldiers, heavily concentrated in the Williamsburg-Hampton Roads area. A victory on Tuesday will show not only that Mr. Kerry, a decorated Vietnam veteran, can win in the South, but also that a Democrat can compete with President Bush for the military vote, the senator's aides contend. 
"Traditionally you think of those military voters as being Republican," said Rick O'Dell, co-chairman of Veterans for Kerry. "Apparently they are not. What's different this time is we have a candidate that appeals to them."
After a slow start, Mr. Kerry's campaign swung into high gear last week, focusing heavily on veterans. The campaign has been running commercials statewide featuring testimonials from veterans who served with Mr. Kerry in Vietnam. Max Cleland, a former senator from Georgia who is a disabled Vietnam veteran, will campaign for him on Monday. And the campaign has opened phone banks of veterans calling other veterans to vote.
Tuesday's election, in which 82 delegates are at stake, is the first binding Democratic primary in state history. It is open to all voters, regardless of party identification, and Mr. Kerry's advisers believe they can encourage Republican veterans to come out for their candidate. 
Mr. Kerry has also received strong labor backing. Though the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. has remained neutral, its president, Daniel G. LeBlanc, and several major locals representing firefighters, teachers and food and communications workers have endorsed him. Mr. Edwards has the support of the textile workers' union.
In a speech at the state Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson dinner in Richmond on Saturday night, Mr. Kerry, who commanded a Navy patrol boat in Vietnam, played heavily on his military service and veterans' issues. He castigated President Bush as having played "dress up" by wearing a flight suit for an appearance on an aircraft carrier last year. And he accused the Bush administration of slashing health care for veterans and trying to cut combat pay and other benefits for deployed troops. 
Virginia's Republican Party has returned fire at Mr. Kerry, accusing him of demeaning National Guardsmen. In a recent television interview, when asked about President Bush's attendance record in the Texas National Guard, Mr. Kerry said, "I've never made any judgments about any choice somebody made about avoiding the draft, about going to Canada, going to jail, being a conscientious objector, going into the National Guard."
Republicans contend Mr. Kerry equated serving in the Guard with draft dodging. "This is an outright insult to the over 28,000 Guardsmen who are serving our nation today in Iraq," said Kate Obenshain Griffin, the state party chairwoman.
On Sunday, Mr. Kerry said he meant no slight, but asserted that in the late 1960's, many joined the Guard because the odds of "going to Vietnam were very low."
Advisers to General Clark, a West Point graduate, had thought he could win Virginia because of its large military population. His campaign got off to an early start, sending full-time staff members here in early December and running commercials for several weeks this year.
But last week, Mr. Clark stopped his advertising in Virginia to focus on Tennessee. Before that, he spent more than the other candidates here on television, over $500,000, Democratic officials said.
The general stood a strong third in two polls conducted last week, and he has continued to attack Mr. Edwards, particularly on veterans' issues, in a battle for second place. 
"I think Virginia is still up for grabs," said Mo Elleithee, a campaign spokesman. "In the southwest and south side, it's a battle between Clark and Edwards."
But the central battle seems to be between Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry. That struggle is playing out in one family that attended rallies for both candidates in Richmond on Saturday night. 
Steve Ferguson, 55, is a Vietnam veteran who likes Mr. Kerry. "He resonates with veterans because he served," Mr. Ferguson said.
But his wife, Brenda, also 55, is supporting Mr. Edwards. "He has a far better chance to beat Bush because he represents the South," she said. "He has youth and vitality and optimism. And I'd have to say I'd be a bit disheartened if he lost here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry, left with his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, accepted an endorsement yesterday by Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia, with his wife, Lisa. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); LAYOFFS (62%); TEXTILES (62%); PLANT CLOSINGS (60%); TEXTILE MFG (60%); TEXTILE MILLS (60%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); FABRIC MILLS (60%); GARMENT WORKERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); MARK WARNER (88%); DONNA F EDWARDS (79%); CHET EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



241 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Man Shot to Death in Coney Island Housing Project 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS J. LUECK; Janon Fisher contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
One man was killed and two others were left in critical condition when gunfire erupted last night in a Coney Island housing project, amid what fellow residents described as rival gang activity and drug sales in the building's corridors.
 The police said they responded to a 911 call about 7:30 p.m. from someone describing the sounds of multiple gun shots inside Surfside Gardens, a 15-story public housing building at 2940-42 West 31st Street. 
 The building is less than two blocks from the Coney Island boardwalk and about 10 blocks west of the Coney Island Amusement Park and KeySpan Park, home of the minor league Brooklyn Cyclones. 
The police said that when officers arrived on the scene, all three shooting victims were in a bloodied elevator cab on the third floor. 
There was no immediate indication of who was responsible for the shootings. Shortly before midnight, as detectives continued to interview residents, a man who identified himself as Anthony Ward, 20, was seen being taken away in handcuffs by the police.
Mr. Ward, responding to a reporter, said he believed he was under suspicion in the shootings. 
One of the victims was pronounced dead on the scene. 
The two others were taken to Lutheran Medical Center and Coney Island Hospital, where they were in critical condition last night, the police said.
The identities of the victims were withheld by investigators, who said they believed they were all in their 20's. Fellow residents of Surfside Gardens and other public housing buildings on the same block said two of the victims were known by the street names of "Mel" and "Ebay." 
Some people in the neighborhood said the three victims were thought to be involved in low-level drug dealing, and had mostly likely fallen prey to a simmering dispute between rival gangs over turf -- or market territory -- in the housing project's hallways.
The shootings came in a neighborhood that has lately avoided high levels of violent crime, and where economic activity has benefited from the construction of the KeySpan Park, and an increase in visitors to the Coney Island Amusement Park and the nearby New York Aquarium. 
But a woman who identified herself as Joli and said she was a resident of O'Dwyer Gardens, another public housing building on the same block -- and others who live in the housing projects surrounding Surfside Gardens -- described her corner of Coney Island as plagued by drug dealing and violence.
"We all knew this was coming," Joli said.
She said it was common knowledge in the public housing buildings that gangs were battling over control of the drug trade.
Anthony Wittman, a resident of O'Dwyer Gardens, said crime on the block seemed to be getting worse, and might be reverting to the high levels of violence during the 1970's and 1980's. 
Over the last decade, residents of the 60th Precinct, which includes Surfside Gardens, have experienced a sharp decline in violent crime. The police said last night that there were 10 murders in the precinct last year, half the number in 1993 and 33 percent less than in 1997.
"It is getting worse over here than it was," Mr. Wittman said. "I don't even want to go out at night."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police were called to the Surfside Gardens apartment building at 2940-42 West 31st Street, Brooklyn, about 7:30 last night after gunshots killed one man and injured two others. They did not identify the victims. (Photo by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FIREARMS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); GANGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Gangs

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (57%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (57%); NG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%)

PERSON: Thomas J Lueck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



242 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: In Business and Civic Circles, Unease Over Stadium Plan 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki poised to announce plans to build a stadium and a convention center on the far West Side of Manhattan, there is a growing unease in business and civic circles about the wisdom of the plan to erect a $1.5 billion domed football stadium that would also serve as the centerpiece of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics.
 The hotel and tourism industry, the real estate lobby, the city's convention and visitors bureau and the chamber of commerce have all endorsed the city's effort to establish new zoning and tax incentives intended to turn the West Side into a major commercial and residential district. 
 They also support the city's bid to serve as host for the Summer Olympic Games in 2012 and for the $1.5 billion expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
Privately, though, some members of these groups are questioning the city's and the state's decision to invest more than $600 million in public money in a 75,000-seat Jets football stadium that faces neighborhood opposition and an almost inevitable lawsuit. Some say the stadium would do little for the city's economy other than enrich team owners, while others worry that the opposition will slow -- or even halt -- other elements of the project. 
Few are willing to speak publicly for fear of alienating Mr. Bloomberg or Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, the architect of the city's 2012 Olympic bid. "Everybody has to go to Doctoroff to get things approved," said one developer. "How can we say anything?"
Among those who questioned spending so much public money on the sports complex was a leading figure in the city's real estate industry. "What does a stadium do for us in Manhattan?" he said. "Queens is a logical place to put it." 
A civic leader and retired businessman said: "There are enormous infrastructure needs in the city today. In a world of limited resources, one has to question subsidizing a stadium."
While acknowledging that some members of her group have misgivings, Kathryn Wylde, the president of the New York City Partnership, one of the city's leading business and civic organizations, said their concerns were limited.
"We've enthusiastically endorsed the Olympics and the West Side plan," Ms. Wyldesaid. "The confusion is that most business people worry about a stadium on the West Side in that it raises political issues that could result in litigation that would derail the effort."
Broadway theater owners have raised broader questions about the stadium's effect on traffic congestion and pollution in the area. Many hotel owners and executives in the tourism industry are strongly behind expansion of the Javits Convention Center, which they say will increase business at hotels and restaurants, but care little about the fate of the stadium. "You're talking about redeveloping a 50-block area," said a tourism executive who was an initial supporter of the stadium. "It shouldn't be driven by the need for an Olympic stadium."
Some downtown landlords and business leaders fear that the West Side project will absorb resources needed to rebuild Lower Manhattan, and Cablevision, the company that owns Madison Square Garden, the Knicks and the Rangers, is worried that the stadium may compete with it for ice skating shows, circuses, concerts and other events.
Some people also worry that the plan to subsidize a stadium for the Jets has set off a chain reaction. Mayor Bloomberg has endorsed a $485 million arena for the Nets. The Yankees and the Mets each have plans to build $800 million stadiums, and Madison Square Garden executives have indicated that they would like a new building that at least one developer said could cost $600 million.
The outcome could be a huge public investment in professional sports facilities that account for only a tiny fraction of the city's economy. According to a study by the city comptroller in 1996, professional sports events account for about 0.7 percent of the city's annual gross economic product.
"People have raised some questions about the stadium," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. "But clearly, it's part of the city's effort to redevelop the area and get the Olympics. My personal opinion is that a stadium would be great."
Some groups are pushing for a public discussion of the policy issues. The Regional Plan Association has scheduled a forum about the city's plans for the West Side, and a similar forum is being jointly held by the Women's City Club, the Municipal Art Society and the New York chapter of the American Planning Association.
Regardless of whether the city is selected as the site of the Summer Games, Mr. Doctoroff contends, the city should move ahead with the stadium, the $1.67 billion extension of the No. 7 subway line, the Javits center expansion and rezoning for 28 million square feet of office towers as a way of improving New York's economic health. In a city where it is often difficult to accomplish big projects, he said, the Olympic bid would impose much-needed discipline and deadlines
But even some proponents of the West Side effort describe the stadium as the redevelopment plan's "Achilles heel." It has inspired local community opposition, and most economists say that stadiums are relatively poor public investments. To offset those objections, the Jets and Mr. Doctoroff said that the public would also benefit from as much as 200,000 square feet of exhibition and meeting space that would be part of the sports complex and physically linked to the convention center. (Mr. Doctoroff has also banned the word "stadium" to describe the complex and favors terms like "Sports and Convention Center.")
The Javits center would also expand northward from 38th Street to 40th Street, for a total of 1.3 million square feet.
In an effort to appease Madison Square Garden officials, the Jets have eliminated plans for an arena within the stadium complex. 
"This version is proving more popular," said the president of the Jets, L. Jay Cross. "We've met with the three biggest show guys," he said, "and we're confident" that Javits exhibitors will bring 25 to 30 additional events to the stadium space. We'll attract more overnight visitors," he added, "providing a bigger economic impact for the region."
Hotel owners, who have sought to expand the convention center for more than a decade, believe that a larger exposition space will attract larger conventions, which would attract more guests for their hotel rooms and more customers for restaurants, shops and Broadway shows. 
Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Javits Development Corporation, said the stadium exhibition space and the convention center, which he said would be expanded in two phases, to 40th Street and then to 42nd Street, would provide a major economic stimulus. 
"We will experience many more years of delay if we wait" to expand the Javits center to 42nd Street, he said. "The common-sense approach is to expand to 40th now."
But not everyone accepts the notion of the stadium as exhibition hall.
Like most exhibitors, Kevin McAvoy, senior vice president of Reid Exhibitions, the largest trade show company in the world, said his company was "in favor of any kind of expansion that provides more quality exhibition space for trade shows and other events we produce at the Javits."
But George F. Little II, the president of George Little Management, which produces 17 shows a year at the Javits, including the largest, the International Gift Show, said he was skeptical that the stadium would work well as an adjunct to Javits, given potential scheduling conflicts, management issues and the fact that it will not be contiguous with the convention center.
"The space is not ideal," he said, "and it's not a viable replacement or addition to the Javits. I may use it, but it's a pure add-on. My concern is that it won't be available when I need it."
Peter Nathan, a 50-year veteran of the trade show business who was head of marketing and sales at the Javits center in the 1980's, also criticized the stadium as exposition space.
"A big expansion will give larger shows an opportunity to come to New York and it'll allow the Javits to put on several shows simultaneously," he said. "But I just don't see the stadium being of any long-term help. It's being built for other reasons, football."
Building or expanding conventions centers is no guarantee of success, especially since the national supply of exhibit space soared in recent years while demand has faltered. The soon-to-be completed $800 million Boston Convention and Exhibition Center is already struggling, with initial bookings falling far behind projections, and it is now expected to operate at a deficit for years. The newly expanded Baltimore convention center is also a disappointment, although the 750-room waterfront hotel built nearby with public subsidies is reportedly booming. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LODGING (89%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); ZONING (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TOURISM (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); LOBBYING (56%); TAX INCENTIVES (55%) Area Planning and Renewal; Football; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012); Summer Games (Olympics) ; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (82%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Daniel L Doctoroff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004 



243 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
The Met in the Era Of the Master Juggler

BYLINE:  By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
Joseph Volpe -- everybody who knows him calls him Joe, as do most who don't -- has a big job and a big personality. That makes his retirement as of 2006 big news.
 His job is general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, the largest performing-arts organization in the world, measured tangibly by budget and intangibly by sheer performing opulence. His personality is the colorful stuff of a thousand gossipy tales, the growling mouth that launched a thousand news articles. 
 Mr. Volpe is a working-class anomaly at the blue-blooded Met, the underdog who made good. A former apprentice carpenter, he worked his way up through the ranks, was once rejected by a board of directors that thought him too uncouth, and was finally, 14 years ago, at the age of 50, coronated with the most powerful position in American performing arts administration.
Yet even the coronation came with a caveat: in 1990 he was named general director, not general manager, which is the prestige title in Met tradition. It was only in 1993 that he was granted the title he had long sought. But that still means that by the time he retires, he will have run the Met for 16 long years.
Mr. Volpe has had to balance the conflicting tastes of conservative board members against those within the company and without who want something more more venturesome. He has struggled, with considerable success, to sustain the quality of the Met's casting. And with Valery Gergiev as principal guest conductor supplementing James Levine, he has maintained quality in the pit. He has overseen the cautious broadening of the repertory and modernization of production styles.
No power is absolute, even for Mr. Volpe. He has had to deal with a shifting assortment of board chairmen (currently Beverly Sills) and also with Mr. Levine, who has held leading positions at the Met far longer than Mr. Volpe. He was artistic director when Mr. Volpe took over the administration, and the Met was widely regarded on the outside as Mr. Levine's company; Mr. Volpe was seen as a tough facilitator.
Yet Mr. Levine, for his many mysterious reasons, has gradually refocused his energies, so much so that he will now revert to music director starting next season. He confines himself largely to his own productions, to his Met concerts and to his outside symphonic commitments, first the Munich Philharmonic and, as of this fall, the Boston Symphony.
That has left Mr. Volpe in the curious position of being de facto artistic director, a job that he has no doubt coveted but for which he is perhaps less than ideally suited. Ever the hard-nosed administrator, he can crack the whip at recalcitrant singers and settle with the unions and placate his board and terrorize his underlings and prevent the centrifugal force of a thousand egos from spinning the Met out of control. His pleasure in his position is always evident and endearing. But can he plan repertory and oversee casting and productions with the requisite, insightful sophistication and taste?
For a long time such questions lurked half-whispered backstage. The Met was selling tickets, its huge endowment was swelled by the bubble of the late 1990's, and Mr. Levine was more of a presence than he is now. But in recent years, like so many American opera companies, the Met has fallen on relatively hard times. Relative, because the endowment, currently at $285 million, provides a comfy cushion. Deficits have run $10 million each of the last two fiscal years (although Mr. Volpe is hoping to balance the budget this year). Attendance has been down sharply, as have annual donations (with the implosion of Alberto Vilar's pledges, to the Met and others, only part of the problem).
These troubles call into question what opera's role in our society is and should be, what might be done to revivify the art and attract new audiences, and whether it's time for new blood and a fresh vision in the general manager's office. To what extent Mr. Volpe himself felt that, prompting his decision to retire, we are not likely to know any time soon.
With empty seats come renewed questions not just about Mr. Volpe's policies, but also about his methods, and especially his combative personality. Within the company more people are probably barked at by the general manager than is absolutely necessary; it's hard to give your best when you're constantly demeaned.
Mr. Volpe has never been accused of dishonesty or ethical shortcomings. Quite the reverse: he is painfully, aggressively honest in defending his autocratic opinions and the Met's prerogatives. Outside the company his confrontational role in the continuing soap opera that is Lincoln Center and its halting redevelopment has been painstakingly documented. Maybe, on any issue, he has been right, but he's not exactly a diplomat.
So now he has announced that he will step down at the end of the 2005-6 season. That gives the board ample time to search for a successor. But what kind of successor? What should the Met general manager do, other than wait for the current economic renewal to translate into increased attendance and donations?
The normal pattern in choosing a new chief executive officer is to swing to the other side of the pendulum's arc. Mr. Volpe is a tough guy, even (say many) a bully. So logic might dictate a smoother, tonier, more soft-spoken manager, more in line with patrician Met tradition. And maybe one with greater sophistication about the musical and dramatic side of opera.
What needs to be done? To figure out a way to fill the Met's vast, 3,900-seat theater with artistically respectable fare; even the most conservative audiences eventually grow tired of routinely cast Franco Zeffirelli productions of "La Boheme" and "Turandot." To find new audiences without alienating the old ones. To sustain casting and conducting in an era when European artists seem increasingly loath to commit months of time in rehearsal and performances across the ocean. To develop and cultivate supportive yet progressive board members. And, one way or another, to corral those egos.
Even for those who might welcome a little more calm from the general manager's office, however, it will be hard to replace Mr. Volpe. He has steered this supertanker of an opera company through the turbulence of Mr. Levine's shifting commitments, through major changes in repertory and staging trends, through a recession and the complaints of crazed prima donnas and lawsuits by dead donors. His staff members may squabble among themselves and complain bitterly under his lash. But on some basic level they respect him, too.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The conductor James Levine, left, and Joseph Volpe, rousing the baritone Thomas Hampson from a nap at the opera house in 1995. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Beverly Sills, the Met board's chairwoman, is one of many who have held that post in Joseph Volpe's tenure. (Photo by Justin Lane)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); OPERA (72%); CONSERVATISM (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



244 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Koreans Look to China, Seeing a Market and a Monster 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
After a century of looking east, first to Japan and then to the United States, Korean business leaders are now gazing west, to China. But it is a fascination tinged with fear.
 In 2003, nearly half of South Korea's foreign investment went to China, and its exports to China jumped 50 percent. Winging west over the 250-mile-wide Yellow Sea, China-bound flights are filled with business executives bearing deals intended to ensure that China replaces the United States as South Korea's major economic partner. 
 Samsung Electronics announced that it would make China the main base for production of its personal computers and flat screens. Hyundai Motor, the nation's biggest carmaker, and Kia Motors, a subsidiary, announced plans to make a million cars a year in China by 2007.
But as South Korea's blue-chip companies funnel new investment into China, economists here worry that South Korea's economic sparkle -- "the miracle on the Han River" -- will lose its luster. With Northeast Asia's foreign investment river diverted to China, economic growth here fell by half in 2003, to 3 percent.
As China's low-wage workers churn out millions of cars, computers and cellphones, its exports seem destined to look like South Korea's. As Korean companies move research and development units to China, surveys indicate that China's technological lag behind South Korea is three to five years, and shrinking.
"China's rapid ascension to the global economic stage has forced Korea to accept the painful yet glaring truth that its competitive edge is steadily slipping away," Kim Wan Soon, the Korean government's investment ombudsman, wrote in a recent newspaper essay. "An increasing number of capital-intensive Korean firms are positioning themselves to assemble high-tech components in China."
In South Korea's world-renowned heavy industries, notably steel and shipbuilding, planned investment in China will one day make for head-to-head competition.
"China is challenging Korea in heavy industries more than ever," Andy Xie, Asia economist for Morgan Stanley, wrote in a recent report. "China is repeating Korea's model of 'low price but high volume' on a vast scale. Korea is likely to suffer ever more losses in its heavy industries."
In the short term, Korea's heavy industries are booming, riding the tide of China's rise.
China, the world's largest steel importer, lies one day by ship from South Korea, the world's No.5 steel-making nation. Last year, South Korea's steel exports to China jumped 60 percent, while to the United States they fell 27 percent. Korea exported to China more than four times the steel it sent to the United States.
Posco, a unit of Pohang Iron and Steel and South Korea's largest steel maker, is investing $800 million in China. 
But for the moment, China's growth is causing all boats to rise in South Korea, the world's largest shipbuilder. 
Last year, China's oil imports grew about 30 percent, and container traffic at China's seven largest ports grew 40 percent. This contributed to a doubling of ship orders placed last year with South Korea's shipbuilders. Of 470 orders, 43 percent were for container ships and 22 percent were for tankers.
But South Korea's Hyundai Heavy Industries may lose its title as owner of the world's largest shipyard. The China State Shipbuilding Corporation recently broke ground on what the company said would be the world's largest shipyard.
While no one knows what Asia's economic world will look like a decade from now, South Korean business executives take China's continued rise as an article of faith. With economists forecasting 5 percent growth for South Korea's economy in 2004, the reason most often cited is expanding exports to China.
Last year, South Korean businesses invested $2.5 billion in China, compared with only $50 million in Japan. Feeding their interest, Korean business newspapers now maintain regular economic pages devoted solely to Chinese news. With Korean companies signing deals in China in 2003 at the rate of 12 a day, 22,000 of them now have investments in China, employing about one million Chinese workers, according to the Korea International Trade Association. Investments range from workshops in Northeast China's ethnic Korean enclave, to a project by Korea Electric Power, the nation's largest power company, to build two coal-fired plants in Henan Province. 
Bilateral trade is expected to double in five years, to $100 billion. In 1992, it was only $6.2 billion. Determined to win market share, Samsung and LG Electronics, Korea's largest consumer electronics companies, have each set goals of selling $10 billion worth of products in China by 2005. To compete with China in the long run, economists say, South Korea must either extend its low-wage, high-volume manufacturing model to North Korea, or open its economy.
China's monthly average industrial wage is $111, compared with $1,524 in South Korea. Factory land costs far less in China than in South Korea, where 40 million people are crowded into an area the size of Massachusetts. Not surprisingly, manufacturing accounted for 91 percent of Korean investment in China last year.
One way out would be to marry South Korea's capital and technological expertise with North Korea's low-wage labor. In a first step, a South Korean industrial park is under construction north of here, just inside North Korea. The park, which might open in 2005, is to hold about 700 South Korean factories.
But in a Communist country where allowing people to fix bicycles for pay is considered a major economic reform, North Korea's inertia is an obstacle to the fast development of partnership projects. In addition, North Korea's nuclear weapons program leaves the nation exposed to economic sanctions by Japan, the European Union and the United States.
The other route would be to break down barriers and open South Korea to more foreign investment.
Last year, South Korea received only $6.5 billion in foreign investment, down from $15 billion in 2000. Last year, South Korean companies invested $5.4 billion overseas. This year, South Korea may cross into the category of net foreign investor.
To arrest this trend, projects are under way to create investor-friendly special economic zones, largely around the port of Inchon.
"That is not enough," Mr. Xie wrote, arguing for exposing South Korea's large "chaebol" conglomerates to more competition. "The right vision is to turn the whole country" into such a zone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rolls of steel at a Posco mill in Pohang await shipment. Last year, South Korea's steel exports to China jumped 60 percent, while shipments to the United States fell 27 percent. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); SHIPBUILDING (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: POSCO (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (57%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

TICKER: PKX (NYSE) (58%); PIDD (LSE) (58%); 5412 (TSE) (58%); 005490 (KSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (57%); 005930 (KSE) (57%); HYUD (LSE) (56%); 005380 (KSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331222 STEEL WIRE DRAWING (58%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) PACIFIC OCEAN (90%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



245 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Jobs, Jobs, Jobs 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last Friday the Bureau of Labor Statistics delivered yet another disappointing employment report.
 Since there's a lot of confusion on this subject, let's talk about the numbers. The bureau actually produces two estimates of employment, one based on a survey that asks each employer in a random sample how many workers are on its payroll, the other on a survey that asks each household in a random sample how many of its members are employed. Most experts regard the employer survey as more reliable; even in the midst of the recovery, that survey has contained nothing but bad news. The household numbers look better, but not particularly good. 
 For technical reasons involving seasonal adjustment, many economists expected the January report to show a one-time bounce in both measures. Yet employment as measured by the payroll survey rose by only 112,000 -- well short of the increase needed just to keep up with a growing population. If employment were rising as rapidly as it did when the economy was emerging from the 1990-1991 recession, we'd be seeing monthly numbers more like 275,000.
Taking a longer view, the payroll numbers tell a dismal story. Since the recovery officially began in November 2001, employment has actually fallen by half a percent, while the working-age population has increased about 2.4 percent. By this measure, jobs are becoming ever scarcer.
The household survey, on which the official unemployment rate is based, tells a less dismal but far from happy story. (Why the discrepancy? We don't know.) The number of people who say they have jobs has risen since the recovery began -- but has still lagged behind population growth.
The only seemingly favorable statistic is the unemployment rate, which has recently fallen to 5.6 percent, the same as in November 2001. But how is that possible, when employment has grown more slowly than the population, or even declined? The answer is that people aren't counted as unemployed unless they're looking for work, and a growing fraction of the population isn't even looking. It's hard to see how this is good news. 
Other indicators continue to suggest a grim job picture. In the last three months, more than 40 percent of the unemployed have been out of work more than 15 weeks. That's the worst number since 1983, and a sign that jobs remain very hard to find -- which is what anyone who has lost a job will tell you.
One last statistic -- not about jobs, but about wages. Since the last quarter of 2001, real G.D.P. has risen 7.2 percent. But wage and salary income, after adjusting for inflation, is up only 0.6 percent. This matches what the employer survey is telling us: America's workers have seen very little benefit from this recovery.
In the light of these dreary statistics, President Bush's recent cheerfulness seems almost surreal. On Friday, he said that he was "pleased, obviously, with the new job growth." When Tim Russert asked in the "Meet the Press" interview what happened to all the jobs that Mr. Bush promised his tax cuts would create, he replied: "It's happening. And there is good momentum when it comes to the creation of new jobs." 
We expect politicians to place a positive spin on economic news, but to insist that things are going great when many people have personal experience to the contrary seems foolish. Mr. Bush's father lost the 1992 election in large part because he was perceived as being out of touch with the difficulties faced by ordinary Americans. Why is Mr. Bush -- whose poll numbers are a bit worse than his father's were at this point in 1992 -- running the risk of repeating his experience?
The answer, I think, is that the younger Mr. Bush has no choice. He has literally gone for broke, with repeated tax cuts that have fed a $500 billion deficit. To justify policies that more and more people call irresponsible, he must claim that wonderful things are happening as a result.
For a while, that famous 8 percent growth rate seemed to be just what he needed. But in the fourth quarter, growth dropped to 4 percent. And as we've seen, the jobs still aren't there.
So Mr. Bush must put on a brave face. He and his officials must talk up weak economic statistics as if they represented stunning success, and predict marvelous things any day now. After all, they have to keep this up for only nine more months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); SALARY SURVEYS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



246 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Wakkanai Journal; 
A Cold War Listening Post Tries to Become a Trading Post

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: WAKKANAI, Japan, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
On Japan's northern edge, the long-running threat from Russia was as real as the debris on the beaches in 1983 from the Korean passenger plane shot down by a Soviet fighter jet from Sakhalin, a dagger-shaped island 26 miles north of here.
 In this windblown settlement, people have watched Sakhalin tossed back and forth by tides of war. Japan won the southern half of Sakhalin in the Russo-Japanese War, a grinding conflict that broke out 100 years ago, on Feb. 8, 1904. In the closing days of World War II, it was Russia's turn as Stalin's troops drove the Japanese across the narrow strait, turning this port into a fearful, refugee-clogged city. 
 "For the Japanese, Wakkanai was their DMZ," Lance Gatling, an American aerospace consultant, said in Tokyo, referring to the air and sea listening post here during the cold war. But in a testament to Japan's rapidly warming economic ties with Russia, Wakkanai is evolving quickly into a modern-day commercial bridge. Huge foreign investments are pouring into oil and gas fields 450 miles north of here.
Last summer, ferry cargo from here to Sakhalin tripled from the previous year. This year, the ferry season is being lengthened, and by 2005 the authorities hope to have an ice-worthy year-round ship to make the 100-mile trip to Korsakov, Sakhalin's nearest port.
"Sakhalin is now essential for Wakkanai's survival," said Satoru Aiuchi, the Sakhalin project chief for the city government here.
As with most towns on Japan's far edges, Wakkanai's young people have been leaving and its population aging. Since 1975, the population has ebbed by a third, to 43,000 today.
As snow swirled around a cozy crab restaurant here one recent evening, Edward P. Bandlow, who teaches English at Wakkanai Hokusei College here, estimated that only 10 percent of his students stuck around after graduation.
But today, road signs are printed in Japanese, English and Russian, and Russian is a required course at Mr. Bandlow's college. Last year, Wakkanai was Japan's top port for Russian fishing boats, registering 3,300 port calls.
Wakkanai sees its future as a staging ground for Sakhalin, which is visible from here on a clear day. Last year, Japan's largest overseas construction contracts awarded worldwide were for work in Sakhalin, nearly $3 billion for oil and natural gas developments.
Wakkanai hopes to resurrect its old Sakhalin supply role, which nurtured the city before the Iron Curtain dropped.
"More and more construction equipment and materials are being exported from here to Sakhalin," said Shigeru Fuse, a city official. Noting that by 2006, some 6,000 workers will build a liquefied natural gas plant across La Perouse Strait -- known in Japan as the Soya Strait -- he predicted that Wakkanai would develop as a source of fresh food for workers.
Travel agents are preparing package tours for oil workers for weekend shopping trips here. Local officials would like Russia to cancel its visa requirement to make travel across the strait easier.
"Wakkanai is very eager to be a leader in closer links with Sakhalin," Vasily I. Saplin, Russia's consul in Sapporo, Hokkaido's capital, said by telephone. "They have good conditions."
Japanese exports to Russia doubled last year, to $1.9 billion, even though the two countries have no peace treaty from World War II. That is largely because of Japan's objection to Russia's postwar occupation of four islands about 250 miles east of here.
But Japan increasingly sees Russia as a future source of oil and gas and as an ally in dealing with China, Asia's rising power. "Strategically, if Japan and the U.S. and Japan and Russia have friendly ties, these two ties could deter China," said Toshiyuki Shikata, a professor of security studies at Teikyo University in Tokyo.
Japan's view of Russia has changed greatly since 1990, when Mr. Shikata was the commanding general of Japan's Northern Army in Hokkaido.
"The military instructions were to blow up the radar facility and then to retreat," Mr. Shikata recalled, describing the standard battle plan for a Soviet invasion.
Stalin told American leaders near the end of World War II that he wanted Hokkaido because Wakkanai's narrow strait kept Soviet warships bottled up in Vladivostok.
But today, Japanese defense plans downgrade the military threat from the north.
"There are no hot lines between Sakhalin and here," said Col. Yoshiharu Matsumoto, commander of the air force's electronic listening station, reflecting on the relaxation of cross-border tensions.
Tetsuo Maeda, a national security professor at Tokyo International University, said in an interview, "The threat to Japan is changing, from Russia to North Korea, and probably later on to China."
Kiyofuku Chuma, a retired military affairs reporter for the daily Asahi Shimbun, expressed a similar view: "For Japanese today the feeling of threat is shifting from Russia in the north to China in the south."
Japan has invited President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to visit Tokyo. Japanese officials hope that the coming Russian presidential election will give Mr. Putin a strong enough mandate to negotiate a solution to the island issue, finally allowing the two countries to sign a treaty.
In a sign of the changing relationship, the troops that Japan sent to Iraq last month came from the Hokkaido base. The airplanes that flew their armored personnel carriers were Antonov-124 transports, chartered from a Russian company.
At the same time, three Russian navy ships were preparing to leave Vladivostok for joint maritime rescue exercises with South Korean and Japanese navy boats, peaceful maneuvers timed to coincide with the 100th anniversary of Japan's attack on Russia's Pacific fleet.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 10 about increasingly friendly relations between Russians and Japanese in Japan's northern port of Wakkanai referred incorrectly to participants in maritime rescue exercises held in the Sea of Japan on Feb. 9, which coincided with the 100th anniversary of Japan's attack on Russia's Pacific fleet. They included only naval vessels from Russia and South Korea, not from Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Russian boat visting Wakkanai, which last year was Japan's top port for Russian fishing boats.; A sign, above, marks the office of the Japan-Russia Economic Exchange Association office in Wakkanai. A ferry, at right, shown at Wakkanai, carries cargo between the port and the Russian island of Sakhalin. The ferry season is being lengthened this year, as business has increased. (Photographs by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times) Map of Japan highlighting Wakkanal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (87%); BEACHES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); REFUGEES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (66%); AGING TRENDS (63%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (60%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) JAPAN (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



247 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
PeopleSoft's Board Rejects Sweetened Offer by Oracle

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
The board of PeopleSoft on Monday rejected the latest offer from Oracle to acquire the company, saying that even at $9.4 billion, or $26 a share, the bid -- made last Wednesday -- undervalued the company, a producer of business applications software. PeopleSoft's announcement came as federal regulators appeared to be nearing a decision whether or not to file a lawsuit to try to block a deal on antitrust grounds. 
 "The board believes that PeopleSoft has a better plan for stockholders," said Craig Conway, PeopleSoft's chief executive, in a statement. "Oracle's offer does not begin to reflect the company's real value." 
 PeopleSoft executives said the shares were currently trading at the low end of their historical valuation largely because of the uncertainty created by Oracle's takeover attempt. On Monday, PeopleSoft's stock fell 53 cents, closing at $22.22. 
 Although the Justice Department's decision deadline is several weeks away, staff investigators are expected to issue an internal recommendation as early as Tuesday. That will be sent to R. Hewitt Pate, assistant attorney general in charge of the antitrust division, who will issue a final decision by March 12. 
 It is somewhat rare that the assistant attorney general issues a decision different from the one his staff recommends, according to antitrust lawyers. Only Mr. Pate's final decision will be officially announced, Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said.
 If the Justice Department allows the offer to proceed, the PeopleSoft board's rejection of it -- at a level 33 percent above the offer of $19.50 a share made in June -- could stir up enough stockholder anger for Oracle to prevail in a proxy fight for control of the board. PeopleSoft, based in Pleasanton, Calif., has moved up its annual shareholder meeting to March 25. Oracle, of Redwood Shores, Calif., recently submitted five candidates to run at that meting to replace existing board members. 
 On Monday, PeopleSoft urged its shareholders to retain their stock, arguing that the Oracle bid was likely to be blocked by antitrust regulators in both the United States and Europe. The European Commission, the year-round executive arm of the European Union, is reviewing the possible combination and is expected to announce its decision sometime after the Justice Department makes its announcement. 
 The antitrust review being conducted by the Justice Department is complex because Oracle and PeopleSoft overlap in some, but not all segments of the business software market, so the degree of competition varies among groups of products. Federal investigators must review the impact on each market segment -- for software for human resources management, enterprise resource planning and inventory management -- to understand the nature of competition in each. 
 Brendan Barnicle, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, said PeopleSoft shareholders seemed in no hurry to tender their shares because there is a growing perception that the Justice Department will move to block the deal. 
 Donald Luskin, a PeopleSoft shareholder who is chief investment officer at Trend Macroanalytics, an economics consulting firm, agreed, saying that shareholders like him are waiting as long as possible in the event a better offer comes along. 
 But Oracle executives urged that PeopleSoft stockholders accept the sweetened bid, describing their company as in precarious financial shape. Jim Finn, an Oracle spokesman, said, "Given PeopleSoft's uncertain future as a stand-alone company and the fact that, for the first quarter, PeopleSoft guided analysts below the consensus estimates, Oracle believes that its offer is full and generous." 
 "Since PeopleSoft's current directors persist in their refusal even to discuss the offer with Oracle," Mr. Finn said in a statement. "PeopleSoft stockholders can act in their own best interests by tendering their shares and voting to elect the slate of five independent directors to the PeopleSoft board." 
On Jan. 29, Mr. Conway told financial analysts that the company would probably report 17 cents to 18 cents a share in net earnings this quarter, a figure at the low end of the analyst consensus at the time of 18 cents. But PeopleSoft executives also said the company had met or exceeded its earnings guidance in 16 of the last 17 quarters. 
 Tad Piper, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, said he thought Oracle's actions in the last eight months had negatively affected PeopleSoft's business. "I think there's some truth to saying the uncertainty hanging over PeopleSoft is having an impact on the company," he said, "particularly in the education and government sectors."
 During the talk with analysts in January, Mr. Conway said sales to those sectors were roughly 12 percent of total licensing revenue in the fourth quarter of 2003, down from as high as 25 percent in the past. 
 PeopleSoft executives have repeatedly accused Oracle of using the takeover bid to confuse the market and to damage PeopleSoft's business. "Don't underestimate the additional value PeopleSoft can create once the disruption from Oracle's hostile activities has ended," Mr. Conway said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about PeopleSoft's rejection of the latest takeover offer from Oracle misstated the name of an economics consulting firm whose chief investment officer said many stockholders were waiting as long as possible to tender their PeopleSoft shares in case a better offer came along. It is Trend Macrolytics, not Trend Macroanalytics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (77%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (66%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (57%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%) PEOPLESOFT INC (PSFT); ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (85%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



248 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Labor Raises Pressure on California Supermarkets 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Four months into one of the biggest labor disputes in decades, the union representing 70,000 striking or locked-out Southern California supermarket workers is waging an increasingly confrontational -- some say desperate -- campaign to fend off cuts in members' health care benefits.
 A hundred union supporters shut down a Safeway in Santa Cruz for an hour and a half recently, dancing and chanting in a conga line through the store. Others disrupted a golf tournament in Pebble Beach on Friday, shouting slogans at two supermarket board members who were about to tee off. Labor leaders are threatening to harass supermarket executives wherever they vacation, be it on beaches or ski slopes. 
 In the biggest rally yet, about 14,000 union supporters demonstrated in Los Angeles on Jan. 31. Pressure against the affected supermarket chains is being brought outside Southern California as well. Thirteen union supporters were arrested not long ago at a sit-in blocking the entrance of a Safeway in Oakland. And 200, including a dozen clerics, demonstrated near the Bay Area home of Safeway's chairman, Steven Burd. 
"This is not a battle about Southern California; this is a war for the whole country, particularly over health care," said Ron Judd, West Coast regional director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "This should be seen as the poster child of what employers are willing to do to take away health care."
The union, the United Food and Commercial Workers, describes its action as a goal-line stand against supermarket efforts to reduce benefits while having workers begin paying some of the premiums. Organized labor says that if the union loses here, corporate managers everywhere may be emboldened to cut back on health benefits.
The grocery chains maintain that with health costs soaring, it is time for workers to begin paying something for their medical coverage and for management to be allowed to limit its own contributions.
About the only thing that union and management can agree on is that the dispute is exacting deep pain from both sides. The companies -- Safeway, Albertsons and Kroger -- have lost nearly $2 billion in sales at their 852 Southern California stores. Several union locals involved in the dispute have had to mortgage their headquarters to finance strike benefits, which, with related expenses, have on occasion amounted to $10 million a week.
The 70,000 workers receive no unemployment benefits, and their employer-paid health coverage ran out on Dec. 31. The insurer has offered a two-month extension for $400, which many workers have paid, some with help from the union. But others are now without coverage.
Many also complain that their strike benefits have been cut to $125 a week from $240, and are telling of being evicted and losing their cars to repossession. Isabel Valles, a cashier for 18 years, has left her $650-a-month apartment and moved in with her mother. Maria Benancio, a cashier for nine years, is feeling so much stress that she has started taking antidepressants. 
"It's really hard," Ms. Benancio said. "I want it to be over." 
But union and management warn that the two sides remain so far apart that the dispute could last several months more. "We are ramping it up," said Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s secretary-treasurer. "This fight will go on as long as it takes to bring management to their senses and to negotiate a fair deal."
The walkout began on Oct. 11, when, six days after the most recent contract expired, more than 20,000 workers struck Vons and Pavilions, two Safeway subsidiaries. In solidarity with Safeway, Kroger, which owns the Ralphs chain, and Albertsons locked out nearly 50,000 workers the next day. Safeway, Kroger and Albertsons have been negotiating jointly with the union.
The chains say they need to cut costs -- deeply and soon -- because Wal-Mart plans to open 40 combined discount stores and supermarkets in Southern California over the next five years. Grocery executives say they will not be able to compete because Wal-Mart and other nonunionized companies often pay their workers $8 an hour less in combined wages and benefits than union workers receive.
"The health care plan we provide," said one supermarket executive involved in the talks, "is not a Cadillac plan, it's a Rolls-Royce plan. And we're providing that at zero cost to employees. This is an outdated concept that needs to change."
Management wants workers to begin paying $260 a year for individual health coverage and $780 for family coverage. The companies hope to cap their health contribution at $4.30 an hour per worker for existing employees -- and less than a third of that, $1.35, for new employees -- a move the union says will undercut coverage as health costs escalate. 
Management has also proposed a lower wage tier for new workers. Top wages currently range from $7.40 an hour for grocery baggers to $17.90 for cashiers; under the companies' proposal, top cashiers' pay would be $15.10.
Paul Clark, a Penn State labor relations professor who edited a recent book on trends in collective bargaining, said the dispute could have nationwide repercussions. 
"If the union loses this and has to give back a significant portion of their health benefits," Professor Clark said, "you're really moving down the road to everybody beginning to be a Wal-Mart worker with low wages and low benefits." 
Most recently there has been a burst of maneuvering. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has announced that he is willing to intervene to foster a settlement. Seeking to gain popular support and get their members back to work, union leaders have called for binding arbitration, but the companies said they saw no need to bring in an outsider when the federal government's top mediator, Peter Hurtgen, was already involved. Mr. Hurtgen has asked the two sides to resume talks quickly. They now say they will do so on Feb. 11. 
The grocery workers' union recently asked the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to become more involved and oversee a national strategy to pressure the supermarkets. The labor federation has urged other unions to contribute millions of dollars to the cause and has asked union members to "adopt" California grocery workers to help them make ends meet.
Brian Dowling, Safeway's chief spokesman, said the supermarkets were hardly worried about labor's pressure tactics. "The market pressure that gets exerted on us if a low-cost nonunion operator is allowed to enter a market like Southern California with a major cost advantage, that's really pressure," Mr. Dowling said. "The other pressure they're putting on us is ho-hum."
Union leaders say they have offered an important concession: if the companies pledge to maintain health coverage at current levels, they say, employees will contribute even more than management has demanded, a move the union says would save the employers $340 million over the life of a three-year contract. But management says that the proposal does not address its desire to cap its contributions and that without the changes it seeks, the three companies' health costs are projected to rise by $1 billion over three years.
On Thursday, 250 union supporters rallied on Wall Street to warn that the dispute was making the supermarkets a bad investment. The union says analysts have found that while Safeway might save $65 million a year by cutting labor costs, the cost of the dispute in lost pretax profits could be more than twice that.
"Every week this goes on, our people are hurting more; I don't minimize that," said Joseph Hansen, the union's secretary-treasurer. "But I don't see how these companies recover from the losses they're suffering."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Union members at a Vons in Long Beach, one of many Southern California supermarkets hurt by strike or lockout. This lie-down was hardly the most aggressive tactic that labor has adopted in the dispute. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); GOLF (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (67%); REPOSSESSION (67%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (56%); ARRESTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



249 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Profit Taking Is Cited as Indexes Register Some Declines

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shares of health care companies led stocks lower yesterday, blunting the effect that a proposed $4 billion takeover in the networking-equipment industry had on technology shares.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.95 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,139.81, led by Pfizer. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 14 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,579.03. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.44 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,060.57. 
 Stock prices may already reflect earnings growth prospects after a 36 percent rise in the S.&P. 500 over the last year, according to strategists, including Joseph Battipaglia, chief investment officer at Ryan Beck & Company, a brokerage firm in Livingston, N.J.
 "The earnings story is well known now," said Mr. Battipaglia, who predicts the S.&P. 500 will gain another 3.5 percent this year. "It's hard to see any immediate catalysts to drive the market higher."
 Some traders cited a dearth of market-moving news. Only three companies in the S.&P. 500 -- Hasbro, Teco Energy and Federated Investors -- reported earnings before the market opened, and the only government economic report was a statistic on wholesale inventories.
 Nine stocks rose for every seven that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.29 billion shares changed hands, 7.5 percent below the average for the last three months. Equity trading on the American Stock Exchange was delayed for three hours because of a technical problem.
 Drug stocks fell as investors shifted out of one of this year's best-performing industries. Pfizer lost 76 cents, to $38.09, to contribute the most to the drop in the S.&P. 500. Merck fell 59 cents, to $48.17. Medtronic, the maker of devices that regulate heartbeats, lost $1.01, to $46.99.
 An index of health care stocks in the S.&P. 500 has gained 4.4 percent this year, ranking second among the benchmark's 10 industry groups. 
 "The drug stocks had a tremendous move," and some investors may feel the shares have come too far, too fast, said Todd Leone, head of listed trading at SG Cowen Securities.
 The rest of the stock market had "really no direction," Mr. Leone said.
 Juniper Networks, the No. 2 network-equipment maker after Cisco Systems, fell $3.29, to $26.18. Juniper said that it would buy NetScreen Technologies for about $4 billion in stock. NetScreen, which makes equipment used to safeguard computer networks, surged $9.54, or 36 percent, to $35.94.
 The Nasdaq, which gets 41 percent of its value from technology shares, gained as much as 0.5 percent before slipping.
 The S.&P. 500 climbed last week for the 10th week in 11, rising 1 percent. The index has risen 2.5 percent this year on top of last year's 26 percent surge.
 Coca-Cola rose $1.41, or 2.8 percent, to $52.40, the largest gain in the Dow. Coca-Cola reports earnings tomorrow. Marc Cohen, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs, wrote that fourth-quarter and 2004 earnings estimates from other analysts may be too low and the shares are attractively priced. 
 InterActiveCorp, the Internet commerce company controlled by Barry Diller, rose $1.09, to $33.04. Net income rose 5.3 percent, to $156 million, as sales increased at Expedia.com and the company's other travel Web sites.
 Shares of Walt Disney jumped 42 cents, to $23.77, after directors projected earnings growth in 2004 of "at least 30 percent" in a letter to shareholders. 
 Dell, which reports earnings after the market closes on Thursday, shed 2 cents, to $32.93, erasing a gain of as much as 1.2 percent

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Climb
By Reuters
 Treasury prices climbed yesterday as investors presumed Asian central banks would be big buyers of this week's $56 billion refunding.
 Since the Group of 7 statement over the weekend warned against "excess volatility" in exchange rates, Japanese officials have made it clear that they would continue their efforts to stem the recent decline in the dollar. Much of this intervention money tends to make its way into the Treasury market, so the statements gave traders hope that there would be plenty of demand from the Bank of Japan at this week's three-part auction.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year note increased 6/32, to 10118/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.06 percent from 4.08 percent on Friday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 6/32, to 1072/32. The bond's yield fell to 4.90 percent from 4.92 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.767	99.500	High Rate	0.920	0.990	Investment Rate	0.939	1.011	Low Rate	0.900	0.960	Median Rate	0.910	0.980	Total applied for	$49,879,083	$47,997,808	Accepted	$25,746,133	$22,994,989	Noncompetitive	$1,369,859	$1,106,265	

Both issues are dated Feb. 12, 2004. The three-month bills mature on May 13and the six-month bills on Aug. 12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "3-Month Treasury Bills"High rate at weekly auction. Graph tracks bills from October to February. (Source by the Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVENTORIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RANKINGS (61%); EXECUTIVES (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MEDTRONIC INC (81%); PFIZER INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (81%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FII (NYSE) (55%); JNPR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



250 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Stresses Compliance With Quotas 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Energy ministers gathering here on Monday for a meeting of OPEC members said stricter adherence to their current production quotas was needed to avoid a sharp decline in the price of oil this spring, signaling that formal output cuts could probably wait until next month.
 Chakib Khelil, the oil minister of Algeria and the host of the meeting, said members were exceeding the group's quota of 24.5 million barrels a day by about 1.75 million barrels in extra daily production. His was one of several public acknowledgements by delegates that members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries were flouting quotas to profit from historically high oil prices. 
 Revenue from international sales by OPEC, which accounts for about a third of world oil production, surged nearly 25 percent in 2003 -- to $247 billion from $199 billion the previous year -- as oil prices climbed to their highest annual average level in two decades, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates. This windfall has made it difficult for the 11 members of OPEC, many of them under fiscal strain, to adhere to their own quotas. 
In trading in New York on Monday, crude oil futures for March delivery climbed 5 cents a barrel, to $32.53, while in London, Brent crude oil rose 12 cents, to $28.95 a barrel.
Despite predictions of softer demand as the Northern Hemisphere heads into spring, Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's most powerful member, said there were "formal and informal" methods for reining in production. He said OPEC members needed to show greater discipline in adhering to production quotas.
There are signs that some OPEC member nations are already trying to enforce discipline on others. Saudi Arabia, for instance, reduced oil sales to large consuming nations like the United States, China and Japan by 470,000 barrels a day in October from the average in the third quarter, according to Deutsche Bank. That was an indication of Saudi Arabia'swillingness to lose market share temporarily to support the present quotas, which were established at a meeting last September.
Mr. Naimi, the Saudi minister, said his nation would be pleased with an oil price of about $25 a barrel, which would be well within OPEC's self-proposed trading range of $22 to $28. OPEC's price target is the average price of crude oils of various quality; the OPEC price generally is a few dollars a barrel below the price of low-sulfur West Texas Intermediate crude that is the benchmark product in New York.
Still, other delegates gave few indications that they wanted to see prices fall to that level from their current perch of about $28.
"The current prices are at an acceptable level and we are worried about overproduction," Iran's oil minister, Bijan Namdar Zanganeh, and his Venezuelan counterpart, Rafael Ramirez, said in a joint statement issued Sunday in Tehran. OPEC's president, Purnomo Yusgiantoro of Indonesia, echoed those comments in a briefing with reporters at the closely guarded compound where OPEC is scheduled to convene formally on Tuesday.
"The price is in the upper part of the band, but we are also concerned about what is going to happen in the second quarter," Mr. Purnomo said. "There is no room for OPEC to increase production."
Delegates to Tuesday's meeting, the first OPEC gathering held in Algeria since 1980, said they also planned to discuss the weakness of the dollar against the euro. Oil is priced in dollars, but OPEC's members trade with Europe in euros; the dollar's recent fall in value against the euro has eroded its purchasing power in Europe. Several ministers have argued that higher oil prices in recent months are justified by the declining value of the dollar.
Yet while Mr. Purnomo and Mr. Naimi, the Saudi minister, did not definitively rule out a cut at Tuesday's meeting, prices have been supported recently by various factors like sluggish production and continued uncertainty over the recovery of the oil industry in Iraq, an OPEC member, and robust demand in China. Hence, OPEC's current focus on expectations of waning demand this spring, a perennial justification for cutting output.
Demand for oil is expected to decline by 2.6 million barrels a day in the second quarter largely because of warming temperatures, according to the International Energy Agency, a Paris-based organization that tracks energy trends. The expectation of weaker seasonal demand has spurred thinking among analysts that OPEC might opt to cut production at its meeting next month in Vienna after calling for greater adherence to its current quotas in its gathering here this week.
That strategy could appease large oil consuming nations, including the United States, that have remained unusually silent in recent months about the impact of higher oil prices on their economies. Still, waiting until next month to cut production risks the possibility of a price decline if OPEC members do not stick to their own quotas. Some OPEC members, including Libya and Venezuela, have recently said they would like a trading range that allowed oil prices to be sustained above $30.
"OPEC is laughing all the way to the bank," said Fadel Gheit, an energy industry analyst at Oppenheimer & Company in New York, who estimated the United States pays $100 million more a day to import oil than it did three years ago.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since August 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 10 days. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (79%); TRENDS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); FUTURES (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (74%); MINING OUTPUT (72%); MARKET SHARE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: IHS INC (69%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (69%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



251 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: ST Assembly Said to Be Near Deal for ChipPAC 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
ST Assembly Test Services, a semiconductor company based in Singapore, is close to a deal to buy ChipPAC, a rival, for about $1.5 billion in stock, a nearly 50 percent premium as the chip industry continues a rebound that began late last year, executives close to the talks said.
 A deal could be announced as early as today, they said. 
 ST Assembly, which tests and packages semiconductors for companies, will offer $11.50 to $12 a share for ChipPAC, which is based in Fremont, Calif., the executives said. That represents a premium of about 50 percent to ChipPAC's closing price of $7.90 yesterday.
The premium underscores the strong recovery in demand for chips, which shrank drastically after the technology bubble burst. The American depository receipts of ST Assembly closed yesterday at $13.34, up 1 cent. 
Under terms of the transaction, shareholders of ChipPAC will own about 50 percent of the combined company, which will have combined annual sales of more than $1 billion starting this year, the executives said.
The combined company will be run by Lay Koon Tan, the chief executive of ST Assembly. The chief executive of ChipPac, Dennis P. McKenna, will join the board.
In late January, ChipPAC reported that it swung to a profit in the fourth quarter of 2003.
The company's net income was $3.3 million, or 3 cents a share, in contrast to a net loss of $7 million, or 7 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue increased 38.5 percent, to $128.4 million from $92.7 million.
For 2004, the company said in its earnings release, "we again believe that market demand across a broad usage of electronic products will continue to drive volume increases." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: STATS CHIPPAC LTD (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ST ASSEMBLY TEST SERVICES; CHIPPAC 

TICKER: S24 (SGX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) SINGAPORE (73%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



252 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tightens Grip on Groups Offering Ways To Visit Cuba 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John Snow announced action on Monday against 10 Cuban-owned or Cuban-controlled business groups that promote travel and trade with Cuba in violation of a four-decade-long embargo.
 Mr. Snow made his announcement before about 100 Cuban-American business executives in Miami, a haven for Cuban exiles who oppose the government of Fidel Castro. The Treasury put the organizations on a list of groups that it is illegal for Americans to deal with. 
 "Castro's regime has crushed freedom and has held Cuba back from its enormous potential as an economic power and as a friend of the United States," Mr. Snow said. 
Nine of the 10 companies listed by the Treasury promote travel to Cuba. One operates a Web site for people in the United States to buy products and have them shipped to family and friends in Cuba.
The organizations are "owned or controlled by the government of Cuba or Cuban nationals," the Treasury said in a statement. Any of their property that falls under United States jurisdiction will be blocked and no American would be able to deal with them legally unless authorized to do so by the Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury.
Hard-line Castro foes in the Cuban exile population in Miami generally applauded the crackdown but said they hoped the United States government would do even more to toughen enforcement on companies promoting business in Cuba.
"It's very satisfying to know the government is cutting off funds that are vital to Castro's existence," said Ninoska Perez, a spokeswoman for the Cuban Liberty Council, a Miami-based exile group. 
The administration has made no secret of its wish to hasten the departure of Mr. Castro, who seized power in 1959, and the latest action was described as an effort to further that objective "and to hasten the arrival of a new, free, democratic Cuba."
Florida is considered a pivotal state in Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, but Treasury officials said their move was not politically motivated and was just an effort to enforce the law.
A trade embargo against Cuba was imposed 42 years ago, in February 1962, under President Kennedy.
Mr. Bush said in October that he wanted to toughen enforcement of American laws prohibiting business dealings with Cuba, which remains a popular tourist destination for many Americans traveling there from Mexico or Canada.
The latest organizations listed by the Treasury as owned or controlled by Cuba include companies in Cuba itself as well as in Argentina, the Bahamas, Canada, Chile, the Netherlands and Britain.
Those cited are 2904977 Canada Inc. of Montreal, Corporacion Cimex S.A. of Havana, Havanatur S.A. of Havana, Havanatur S.A. of Buenos Aires, Havanatur Bahamas Ltd., Havanatur Chile S.A. of Santiago, La Compania Tiendas Universo S.A. of Cuba, Cubanacan Group of Havana, Cubanacan International B.V. of the Netherlands and Cubanacan U.K. Ltd. of London. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (75%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (75%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); CANADA (93%); CHILE (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



253 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR; 
With Gephardt Gone, Kerry Is Lining Up Labor Backing

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry is poised to win a string of crucial labor endorsements before the Wisconsin primary next Tuesday, labor officials say.
 The Building and Construction Trades Department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is likely to throw its weight behind Mr. Kerry after a meeting on Tuesday, labor and campaign officials said. 
 The Alliance for Economic Justice, a coalition of 18 unions that had endorsed Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, is to hold a conference call on Wednesday and could endorse Mr. Kerry as early as this weekend. 
PACE International, the paper workers union, which may not make an endorsement before the Wisconsin voting, has freed its local unions in that state to endorse candidates, and Mr. Kerry is strongly favored. PACE, a member of the Alliance for Economic Justice, is the largest industrial union in Wisconsin, with more than 40,000 members.
"There's overwhelming support for Kerry," said Richard LaCosse, the regional director for PACE in Wisconsin. "It appears the stars are lining up in a very focused fashion for him. We're encouraging our members to support Kerry."
Even the Teamsters, who warred with Mr. Kerry over his opposition to drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, are expected to come aboard, a union official said.
The Teamsters took out newspaper advertisements against Mr. Kerry in Florida and Iowa in 2002 over the Alaska drilling issue, and the union president, James P. Hoffa, went head-to-head with him over the same topic on the NBC program "Meet the Press" in September 2001.
But Mr. Hoffa met at Mr. Kerry's home with other leaders of the Alliance for Economic Justice on Thursday and was impressed by Mr. Kerry's "evolving" position on trade, a Teamsters official said.
"We see some good movement from Kerry," the official said. "We all agree now that certainly we're not against trade, but we want strong language in the main body of trade agreements, not side agreements."
"Kerry has made a strong argument as to why he should be endorsed," the official said Monday. "The fact is he's got momentum, and that's got to be part of the decision."
Several labor leaders cautioned that some individual unions in the alliance had urged the group to delay an endorsement long enough to see how well Mr. Kerry holds up over the next few weeks, because it is too late now for labor leaders to score points with Mr. Kerry by being out in front for him.
But several labor officials said the main concern was unanimity, however long it took to achieve.
"Everybody wants to keep the alliance together," a Teamsters official said, "because we're also pretty aggrieved about those unions that went their own way." 
The Service Employees International Union and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees split with unions backing Mr. Gephardt to support Howard Dean; this weekend, the federation withdrew that endorsement.
Mr. Kerry reported the endorsement on Monday of the Amalgamated Transit Union as he campaigned in Roanoke, Va., on the eve of the Virginia and Tennessee primaries, which he hopes will be his first Southern victories. Speaking to hundreds of people outside the city's Fire Station No. 1, he attacked theBush administration over job losses.
"I heard just before I came in here that the president and the administration have released a new report, and in this new report they say they're going to create 2.5 million new jobs over the course of the next year," Mr. Kerry said. "Well, I've got a feeling this report was prepared by the same people who brought us the intelligence on Iraq."
"I don't think we need a new report about jobs in America, I think we need a new president who's going to create jobs in America, and put America back to work," he said.
"I want your amen," he said, playing the preacher for a moment. "Yes, indeed -- amen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As John Kerry campaigned in Roanoke, Va., a supporter at a rally outside Fire Station No. 1 held up a sketch of the White House yesterday. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); WILDLIFE (51%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (51%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (59%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



254 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush's Revisionism 

 BODY:
Just as he did on Iraq and national security, President Bush laid the economic foundation for his re-election campaign during a television interview broadcast Sunday. In a preview of how his campaign will respond to complaints about the huge deficit and overall job losses, Mr. Bush defended his tax cuts as ways to stimulate the economy, blamed Congress for not getting spending under control and made vague promises about avoiding catastrophic red ink in the long run by reforming Medicare and Social Security. None of what we heard made much sense.
 Mr. Bush would have us believe that he was compelled by sluggish economic times to cut taxes. When his interviewer, Tim Russert, referred to a devastating chart showing the economy's decline in the last three years and asked Mr. Bush why he should be re-elected, he answered, "Because I have been the president during a time of tremendous stress on our economy, and made the decisions necessary to lead that would enhance recovery." He called his tax cuts an "economic stimulus plan." 
 This would make for a stirring tale of a president responding firmly to a national emergency, if only the president's supposed stimulus plan had been just that. It wasn't. His ambitious back-loaded tax cuts were unveiled during the last campaign, in the heady days of 1999, when the federal government was projected to amass trillions in surpluses in the next decade. Members of the Bush team drew up the tax cuts essentially as a rebate to the affluent for the excess money they said Washington had been taking. They stuck to the game plan even after it was clear that the rosy revenue projections would not hold up in the face of a wilting stock market.
Instead of altering its plan to conform to changing facts, the White House simply altered its rationale for the tax cuts. The supposedly affordable luxury of a handout to the wealthy over the next decade was relabeled, improbably enough, as a short-term stimulus package. Mr. Bush disregarded the sound advice of Paul O'Neill, his first Treasury secretary, and Alan Greenspan, who said future tax cuts should be conditioned on the availability of surpluses.
Mr. Bush was absolutely right when he pointed out that he did not cause the economic slowdown, which lingered on as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks and corporate scandals. But it was hard to take the president seriously on Sunday when he said it had been his tax cuts alone that had turned things around. That version of recent history overlooks the Federal Reserve's central role in minimizing the damage from the recession by its aggressive interest-rate cuts. It is also hard to figure out how cutting such taxes as those on investors' dividend income, or phasing out the estate tax over 10 years, stimulates consumer demand. Smaller, more targeted tax cuts in 2001 and 2002 -- like a suspension of certain payroll taxes -- could have done more to stimulate the economy at a far lower cost to the Treasury.
What is clear is that by drastically reducing federal revenues as a percentage of the economy to levels not seen in a half-century, Mr. Bush is saddling the nation with oppressive long-term liabilities. Even some of his conservative allies are becoming nervous about the administration's fiscal recklessness, a development that may account for Mr. Bush's defensive but ultimately inaccurate statement in the interview that discretionary spending had fallen during his term.
The president, who has never vetoed a single spending bill during his time in office, answered questions about the yawning gap between revenue and spending by recalling his plan to "cut the deficit in half" in the next five years. That plan avoids considering the consequences of locking in the current tax cuts, fails to address the needed indexing of the alternative minimum tax and does not even reflect the continuing costs of the war in Iraq. He threw up several other smokescreens, including reforming Social Security, without acknowledging that his own plan for the partial privatization of Social Security would require enormous new spending to cover the cost of the changeover. He seemed to regard this year's Medicare bill as another victory for cost controls, a peculiar stance for a law that includes a new entitlement priced at more than $50 billion a year.
The public, which already seems engaged in this campaign, will have nine months to consider Mr. Bush's rationale. We suspect the term "fuzzy math" will come back to haunt him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); RECESSION (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MEDICARE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); TERRORISM (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%); SCANDALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); TIM RUSSERT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



255 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: BAD OMENS; 
Rifts Increase Iraqis' Fear For the Future

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
The closer Iraqis get to sovereignty, the more they voice fears that ethnic and religious differences could fracture their nation.
 Generations of colonialism followed by Saddam Hussein's rule drove fissures through Iraqi society that are now widening as politicians and clerics appeal to religion and ethnicity in advancing their demands. In the angry clamoring of Shiite and Sunni Muslims, and of Arabs, Turkmens and Kurds in the north, many Iraqis, foreign diplomats and allied military officers say they discern the first smoke of broad communal strife. 
 "Wherever we see a spark, we have to dampen it quickly," said a senior allied military official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Neither the allied official, nor the Iraqi clerics, tribal sheiks, politicians, foreign diplomats and ordinary people interviewed over two weeks said civil clashes were imminent. But they said the potential was there, as politicians and allied forces try to forge one country out of ethnic and religious groups with conflicting grievances. 
One flash point is the demand now being heard from the Shiite majority for swift elections. Sunnis, who provided the power base for Mr. Hussein, now worry that the discrimination they practiced against Shiites could be turned against them.
In the central town of Ramadi, Sheik Majid al-Dulaimi, a Sunni, summed up the feared outcome of elections: "Destruction -- political, economic, social -- even civil war."
Deadly riots between Arabs, Turkmens and Kurds have already shaken Kirkuk, the oil city in the north, as the groups battle for property and primacy.
The unease is amplified by the widespread belief that neighboring countries want to destabilize Iraq, with Iranian groups supporting the Shiites, for example, and Saudis buoying Sunni militants. That was underscored this week when American officials here confirmed that they had obtained a document asking Al Qaeda's leaders for help in waging "sectarian war" in Iraq.
Iraqis and foreign diplomats say the Americans have not proved themselves able to calm the tensions and contend that it will take a home-grown force to prevent a dangerous splintering.
"The new thing in Iraq is that we must take the initiative," said Aku Sada al-Khalidi, 34, from a Shiite family in Kerbala. "And now people are speaking out, which is beautiful and frightening at the same time."
"We used to blame Saddam for everything," he said, adding that "now, it is our responsibility" to prevent the nation from breaking up on ethnic or sectarian lines.
After a generation of oppression, each major group -- Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds -- claims to have suffered more than others, and each doubts others will treat them fairly after the Americans hand over power.
Iraqis and foreign experts said some clashes were likely, particularly given that militias hold sway across much of Iraq, and that there are ample arsenals available to various groups.
If serious trouble erupts after the transfer of power, it is not yet clear to what degree the American military could intervene, although a senior official with the Coalition Provisional Authority said the continuing presence of American troops could provide a strong deterrent. The future American role is being negotiated by the occupying authorities and the Iraqi Governing Council.
Iraqis and the military worry most about the rift between Sunnis and Shiites over the latter's call for elections. The most revered Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, has asked the United Nations to determine their feasibility, and an assessment team has just arrived.
Ayatollah Sistani has indicated that if the United Nations recommends against elections before the June 30 deadline for the transfer of power, he will consider alternatives to achieve a representative government. He opposes the caucus system favored by the Americans.
"The Shia are willing to wait a certain amount of time to get one person, one vote, because then, who is the majority?" said Maj. George Sarabia, the second in command with the Second Squadron of the Second Armored Cavalry, which is responsible for Sadr City, a poor Shiite quarter of Baghdad.
Greater apprehension is felt among the Sunnis. In Baquba, Shiites and Sunnis visit each other's mosques and intermarry. Yet a prosperous Sunni, Ahmed Taha al-Jibouri, could barely handle his anxiety as he sat in his living room on a recent day. His father is the provincial sheik of the Jibouri tribe, a mostly Sunni clan that sprawls all over Iraq. 
Mr. Taha firmly opposes elections too soon, maintaining that they would favor the majority Shiites. "Let the elections occur, and if they bring a government we don't like, we will have demonstrations to get rid of it," he said. "And if that's not enough, we'll take it with weapons."
The tension between Shiites and Sunnis, whose privileges are now threatened, was foreseen a decade ago by Kanan Makiya, a returned Iraqi exile, in his book "Cruelty and Silence."
"Overnight, your world has come crashing down, and you don't quite know what that means," said Mr. Makiya, who now heads the Memory Foundation here, which plans to document human rights abuses under Mr. Hussein's Baath Party rule. 
In Ramadi and Falluja, Sunni farming towns west of Baghdad where insurgents regularly attack American soldiers, the air crackles with fury. Security is inadequate for elections, residents say, an argument that others elsewhere have also made. Sunnis charge that countless numbers of people are coming in from Iran with fake documents to vote for the Shiites. The Shiite leadership is not truly Iraqi, but Iranian, and therefore illegitimate, they say. 
So far, Shiites and Sunnis have not openly clashed. Still, said Mr. Makiya, Shiite leaders could do more to damp Sunni fears by appointing Sunnis to high-level posts and meeting with their leaders. "Only the Shia can assuage the fears of the Sunni," he said. "If they don't, then Iraq could fall into civil war."
Already, communal violence has broken out in the north. The Kurds who dominate that area are pressing for a large autonomous province that would include the choice city of Kirkuk. But Turkmens and Arabs in the region resist the idea. Each group has its own historical claims. Many Kurds who were driven away years ago under Mr. Hussein have returned to reclaim their old homes, now inhabited mainly by Arabs.
Dr. Mahmoud Othman, a Kurd and a member of the Iraqi Governing Council, said Kurdish politicians might be able to reduce tensions by putting off the question of Kirkuk and by encouraging Kurds to recover homes peacefully through the courts. 
But Dr. Othman and others blamed other countries for deepening sectarian and ethnic rifts. Groups inside Turkey support the Turkmens, he said, underscoring the Turkish government's fear that a Kurdish province in northern Iraq could act as a magnet for its own large Kurdish population. In addition, he said, Syrians, Saudis and Iranians each want to see the American experiment in Iraq fail. "If there were no outside influence," Dr. Othman said, "Iraqis could reach solutions much more easily." 
Like many Iraqis who work with the American-led alliance, he said the occupying powers had not done a good job of mediating among Iraq's various groups.
The senior Provisional Authority official says he and his staff meet regularly with Iraqis. He said that while he had heard fears of civil strife, he thought that improvements in the economy, the presence of American troops and the gradual strengthening of civil society would prevent violence.
"However we see the future evolve, there will be some shepherding," he said, "and the international community is not going to sit idly by if those danger signals persist."
Iraqis themselves may offer the best hope to defusing the tensions. 
In Baghdad, former political prisoners and their families stream into a mansion that was once owned by an adviser to Mr. Hussein and now is the headquarters of a human rights group. A clearinghouse for information about Iraqis who disappeared under the old government, the building should be ablaze with pain. The group's leaders acknowledge that they spend a lot of time trying to talk people out of retribution.
But some gathered there understand that suffering blanketed the whole country, not just their families or towns. "We have nothing against the Sunnis," said AminaHadi, a Shiite woman from Nasiriya in the south whose 16-year-old brother vanished into Mr. Hussein's prisons in 1991, never to be found. "It was the Baathists. They took Sunni, too, and there were Shiites who worked for Saddam."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheik Majid al-Dulaimi, center, a Sunni shown at home in Ramadi, in the heart of the Sunni triangle, says holding elections in Iraq, as favored by the majority Shiites, could bring destruction, "even civil war."; At the Free Prisoners Society in Baghdad, Iraqis wrote down information about loved ones and others who disappeared during Saddam Hussein's rule. Most of the thousands who have visited the society are Shiites. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); POLITICS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); RIOTS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



256 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: President Calls Economy 'Strong and Getting Stronger' 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
President Bush said Monday that a soft economy had caused "hardship for people in many industries and regions of our nation," but he declared that "America's economy is strong and getting stronger," and he predicted the creation of 2.6 million jobs this year.
 The prediction provides a benchmark that the president and his critics can use to measure the performance of the election-year economy. 
 In his annual economic report, Mr. Bush defended his record, which Democrats have harshly criticized. 
"Since May 2003," Mr. Bush said, "we have seen the economy grow at its fastest pace in nearly 20 years." 
He predicted that prosperity would soon "reach every corner of America." 
On a trip to Missouri, a state quite likely to be fiercely contested in the presidential election, Mr. Bush said the economy showed "good growth, good strong growth." He gave much of the credit to three tax cuts that he shepherded through Congress.
But he warned that the recovery could be imperiled if Democrats blocked his call to make permanent the cuts, some of which expire over the next few years. The Democratic presidential hopefuls have all called for rolling back some or all of the cuts. 
Republican leaders in Congress plan to push to extend or make permanent at least some elements of the cuts.
Mr. Bush renewed his proposal to overhaul Social Security by encouraging people to set aside some of their payroll taxes in private retirement accounts. He acknowledged that such a change could increase the federal budget deficit in the next 15 years by reducing federal revenues. 
He said the proposal would lead to "smaller deficits in the long term" by reducing the growth of Social Security benefit payments financed from federal revenues.
The White House thus acknowledged that the government would need to borrow large sums to cover the costs of going to a Social Security system with private accounts. 
"Personal retirement accounts widen the deficit by design," the report said. "They refund payroll tax revenues to workers in the near term while lowering benefit payments from the pay-as-you-go system in later years."
The administration said the reduction in payroll taxes would not harm current workers. 
"They save this money in their own accounts, which can give them retirement income just as surely as if the government were promising it to them," the report said.
The president's Council of Economic Advisers said the crisis in Social Security and Medicare financing "results mainly from the fundamental demographic shifts to lower birthrates and longer lives, rather than the impending retirement of the baby boom generation."
Over all, the report predicts that the economy will create 2.6 million jobs in 2004, increasing nonfarm payroll employment to 132.7 million. Last February, the White House predicted that 1.7 million jobs would be created in 2003. In fact, nonfarm payrolls showed a small decline, government figures show. 
If the president's forecast is correct, 2004 will be the first year of Mr. Bush's presidency to see a net increase in payroll jobs. Since he took office, the country has lost 2.2 million payroll jobs, as nonfarm employment dipped to 130.2 million.
On his trip to Springfield, Mo., Mr. Bush highlighted what he said were significant improvements in the economy. He plans to sound the same theme at a meeting with "economic leaders" on Tuesday.
In the economic report, Mr. Bush said he inherited a weak economy when he took office on Jan. 20, 2001. He traced many of the nation's economic problems to the "recession that began in 2000" and "the decline of the stock market beginning in early 2000."
N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said that the administration believed that the last recession began "sometime in the fourth quarter of 2000." 
Donna L. Zerwitz, a spokeswoman for the National Bureau of Economic Research, a private group that defines turning points in the business cycle, said it had not changed the dates of the recession, from March 2001 to November 2001. But Ms. Zerwitz said economists at the bureau were reviewing the data. Some experts, she said, believe the recession began in November 2000, and others would make the date February 2001.
Democrats mocked Mr. Bush's prediction about jobs. "I don't think we need a new report about jobs in America," said Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the front-runner in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination. "I think we need a new president who's going to create jobs in America and put America back to work."
At a rally in Roanoke, Va., Mr. Kerry said, "I've got a feeling this report was prepared by the same people who brought us the intelligence on Iraq."
Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic whip, said Mr. Bush had "the worst record of job creation since the Great Depression." 
The economic report acknowledges that "manufacturing employment fell throughout 2003." Figures from the monthly survey of work sites by the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that manufacturing jobs declined by 2.8 million in the last three years.
Mr. Mankiw said a different statistical measure, based on a survey of households, showed "a lot more rapid job growth."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush flanked yesterday by Jack Stack, chief executive of SRC Holdings, and Theresa Noblitt, an SRC employee, in Springfield, Mo. The president predicted the creation of 2.6 million jobs this year. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); MEDICARE (69%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (56%) MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



257 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW; 
SOUTHERN STATES ARE SET TO SHAKE DEMOCRATIC RACE

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Gen. Wesley K. Clark and Senator John Edwards campaigned furiously through Virginia and Tennessee on Monday, struggling to block Senator John Kerry from winning two pivotal Southern primaries on Tuesday. A Kerry sweep would put intense pressure on them to quit the race, Democrats said.
 In Wisconsin, Howard Dean abruptly said he would stay in the nominating battle even if he lost there next Tuesday, a stance he acknowledged was in "obvious contradiction" to a vow he made last week. Dr. Dean said he was responding to pleas from supporters who wanted him to keep running. 
 Dr. Dean's shift came after a weekend of double-digit percentage point losses to Mr. Kerry in three states where he had once been in dominant positions -- Maine, Michigan and Washington -- and on the eve of two primaries in which he did not compete. Page A16. 
For all that, the voting here and in Virginia could help to shake out the race, Democrats said. The chairman of the Tennessee Democratic Party, Randall A. Button, said Monday that General Clark, who is from neighboring Arkansas, and Mr. Edwards, who is from neighboring North Carolina, should quit if they could not beat Mr. Kerry on their home turf, an outcome some polls released Monday suggested.
"They are both Southerners that have a message that resonates with Southerners," Mr. Button said. If they lose, he said, "it's gotten down to this: Let's move ahead to our objective, and our objective is unseating George W. Bush."
A senior national Democratic Party official made the same argument, saying that General Clark and Mr. Edwards would have difficulty raising money to push on should they lose to Mr. Kerry in the South. "The voters will have spoken: Let's get on with it," this official said.
Some of General Clark's supporters said he was likely -- but not certain -- to end his bid for the presidency should he lose Virginia and Tennessee, two states where he has invested a huge amount of time, prestige and money. So far, General Clark has won only one state, Oklahoma, and by a very slim margin.
Several national Democratic leaders said that should he lose again, the general would probably come under pressure from the quarter of the party that encouraged his candidacy -- the Bill Clinton camp -- to clear the field for Mr. Kerry.
By contrast, Mr. Edwards and his aides rejected admonitions from some Democrats that he step aside if he loses. Instead, he said he would push on through Wisconsin on Feb. 17 and on to March 2, when Democrats in 10 states, from New York to California, will choose 1,408 delegates. 
Aides to Mr. Edwards said they were hopeful that by a week from Tuesday, General Clark and Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, would either be out of the race or marginalized. After that, they said, Mr. Edwards would enjoy a head-to-head contest with Mr. Kerry for the two weeks leading to March 2.
"We have a long process going on here," Mr. Edwards said. "What we have been preparing for the entire time is a nomination process that's going to go on well into March. We're prepared for that, we have the resources to do that and most importantly we have a message that obviously resonates with voters here."
Mr. Edwards cited the fast pace of the primary schedule in explaining why he was struggling against a senator from Massachusetts in a part of the country where he should presumably have an advantage.
The problem with Tennessee and Virginia , he said, is "there is a short period of time between the primaries that come before and the primaries here."
He added that "the other states where we've had time to get this message through -- what my campaign is about, who I am as a candidate -- it works. That's the reason this campaign will go into March."
Mr. Kerry began his day in Virginia and ended it in Memphis, seeking his first victories in the South, which his aides said would establish him as a national candidate.
Dr. Dean's decision to stay in the race reflected a change in strategy that appeared to take place in less than 12 hours. In the morning, he gave a speech in which he implored Wisconsin voters to keep the Democratic nominating contest going, saying that a victory by Mr. Kerry would, for all intents and purposes, end the battle. By the afternoon, Dr. Dean was saying he had decided he would stay in, no matter what happened in that state.
"Over the last three or four days we have had enormous pressure from the people who raised us all the money not to drop out," Dr. Dean said. He added, "It's very clear that a huge number of people around this country, some of you may have seen it, you were in the crowds as I'm walking out, that are saying, you know, don't quit."
He said that Mr. Kerry had not experienced the kind of examination he had, and that the party might suffer for nominating him.
"As long as I think we have a chance to win the nomination I think comparison is a fair thing," he said. "Frankly, I've said before I don't think Senator Kerry's been vetted in the same way I was vetted when I was the front-runner. I think that's a necessary process because we've got to make sure that our nominee is the strongest possible nominee against George Bush."
Dr. Dean said he "was unaware of making this decision" before announcing it, explaining that he often let choices "incubate unconsciously for a long time before I actually make a formal decision."
Some Democrats said that Dr. Dean's decision to stay in past Wisconsin, assuming he goes through with it, could help Mr. Kerry by dividing his opposition.
The Dean news seemed to agitate advisers to Mr. Edwards. As it is, one reason Mr. Kerry could win both Virginia and Tennessee is that Mr. Edwards and General Clark appeared to compete for many of the same voters.
Mr. Kerry, after landing in Memphis, declined to comment on Dr. Dean's decision. "I've said all along it's not for me to comment on the choices of other candidates in this race," he said. "I'm focused on winning the nomination. I'll do it step by step, one step at a time, and each candidate will have to make up his own mind as to what their choices are in this race."
Several Democrats said General Clark appeared to be in a more precarious position than Mr. Edwards on Tuesday. Mr. Edwards has scored a decisive victory -- though in South Carolina, the state where he was born -- and a strong second in Iowa. 
The chairman of the Virginia Democratic Party, Kerry Donley, said that while Mr. Edwards might survive losses on Tuesday if he came close, General Clark would not.
"Tuesday is a very critical day for Wesley Clark," Mr. Donley said. "He almost really has to come away witha victory in order to remain viable in other states."
General Clark traveled to three small, economically depressed towns in Western Tennessee on Monday, drawing small crowds for the day before a primary. He called himself a Southerner from a modest background who was "the underdog."
"You've got some choice in this race," General Clark told a breakfast rally of about 50 people in Union City. "You've got a great lawyer; he's a wonderful man, he's a great lawyer. You've got a man who spent his life in the Senate; he's a wonderful legislator. Or you got somebody like me, who spent his life rolling up his sleeves, working with people, building teams, being held accountable and making it happen."
Mr. Edwards continued his pattern since the South Carolina primary last week, avoiding mentioning Mr. Kerry by name. While Mr. Edwards has engaged in exchanges over his voting record with General Clark, he has yet to draw any contrasts with Mr. Kerry, despite vowing to do that.
Mr. Kerry, drawing no fire from his rivals, continued to campaign Monday as if the primaries were behind him. He challenged President Bush for saying that Democrats wanted to raise taxes. Mr. Kerry said that middle-class tax cuts -- in particular, the child tax credit, and the elimination of the so-called marriage penalty -- would not be eliminated should he become president.
"What's on the table is whether people earning $200,000 and up ought to be getting a tax cut at the expense of the average American and the priorities of our country," he said. "If George Bush wants to stand there and defend people who earn more than $200,000 a year getting a tax cut, instead of giving health care to Americans and instead of investing in education and job training, that is the debate I want to have."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "PROFILE: States With Primaries Today" Tennessee Chart shows percentage point difference in 2000 vote for Bush, and Gore in Tennessee. Votes in presidential elections 2000DEM.: 47%REP.: 51%OTHER: 2% 1996DEM.: 48REP.: 46OTHER: 6 1992DEM.: 47REP.: 42OTHER: 11 1988DEM.: 42REP.: 58OTHER: 1 1984DEM.: 42REP.: 58OTHER: 1 1980DEM.: 48REP.: 49OTHER: 3 1976DEM.: 56REP.: 43OTHER: 1 1972DEM.: 30REP.: 68OTHER: 3 Demographics WHITE: 79%BLACK: 16%HISPANIC: 2%ASIAN: 1%OTHER: 1% MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $36,360 Virginia Chart shows percentage point difference in 2000 vote for Bush, and Gore in Virginia. Votes in presidential elections 2000DEM.: 44REP.: 52OTHER: 3 1996DEM.: 46REP.: 48OTHER: 7 1992DEM.: 41REP.: 45OTHER: 14 1988DEM.: 39REP.: 60OTHER: 1 1984DEM.: 37REP.: 62OTHER: 1 1980DEM.: 40REP.: 53OTHER: 7 1976DEM.: 48REP.: 49OTHER: 3 1972DEM.: 30REP.: 68OTHER: 2 Demographics WHITE: 70%BLACK: 19%HISPANIC: 5%ASIAN: 4%OTHER: 2% MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $46,677 (Sources by Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections; Almanac of American Politics)(pg. A16) Map of Tennessee highlighting Nashville, and Memphis. (pg. A16) Map of Virginia highlighting Arlington, and Richmond. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNORS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (78%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



258 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Investors Said to Be Looking at 3 Publications 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
A group of media and finance executives, who last year made a remarkably public but ultimately losing bid for New York magazine, have not lost their lust for high-profile media properties, three executives involved in the discussions about a possible venture said. 
 The group, which is led by Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News, is considering investing up to $11 million in Radar, a magazine focused on celebrities that published two issues last year before running out of money. 
 It is also interested in investing in -- or even acquiring -- The New York Observer, a weekly paper in Manhattan, and Time Out New York, a weekly listings magazine. 
In addition to Mr. Zuckerman, the group has Nelson Peltz, a billionaire investor whose Triarc Companies owns Arby's restaurants; Jeffrey Epstein, a money manager; Donny Deutsch, chief executive of the advertising agency Deutsch Inc.; and Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax films.
The possibility that the Zuckerman group was considering investing in Radar was first reported last week in The Daily News.
The group had been the presumptive favorite to buy New York magazine from Primedia. It even speculated in public about its plans for the city magazine.
But on Dec. 16, after the group delivered an offer that Primedia considered low, Primedia accepted a $55 million bid from Bruce Wasserstein, a Wall Street deal maker. Primedia is principally owned by Kohlberg, Kravis & Roberts 
"Following the sale of New York magazine, several media entities approached the group offering ideas for investment," said Matthew Hiltzik, a spokesman for Mr. Weinstein, who said that he was speaking for others in the group as well. "Right now, we are just kicking tires, not buying anything."
Radar, a magazine that both celebrated and made fun of celebrities, garnered a lot of attention from the press when it produced issues in the spring and summer of last year. 
But it has been on hiatus as the founders, including Maer Roshan, the former editorial director of Talk, searched for long-term financial backing. 
Before it became clear that their bid for New York magazine would be unsuccessful, members of the group had indicated that they wanted to install Mr. Roshan as editor.
One executive who is involved in the current discussions said that the group was looking at a number of possibilities, including a reconfigured Radar magazine that could compete more directly with New York magazine.
New York is primarily a regional magazine, with an emphasis on news and listings about New York City, while Radar had articles and cheeky commentary about national celebrities and national news. 
Mr. Roshan declined to comment on the possibility that a deal was in the works, as did a spokesman for Mr. Zuckerman.
Two executives involved in the group said that Time Out New York and The New York Observer had been contacted about a possible sale, but executives at both media properties said that they were unaware of any discussions about a possible sale to the Zuckerman group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) BOOKS AND MAGAZINES; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: WENDY'S CO (70%); DEUTSCH INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MAGAZINE 

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (70%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (52%); BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (50%) ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



259 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: New Biolabs Stir a Debate Over Secrecy and Safety 

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
A flood of federal money has led to a building boom for high-security "hot labs," where the world's deadliest germs and potential bioterrorist weapons can be studied.
 The laboratories would more than triple the space to develop vaccines and treatments for anthrax, plague, hemorrhagic fevers and other killer pathogens, officials estimate. 
 Scientists, biodefense experts and officials say the shortage of Biosafety Level 3 and 4 labs, those that handle the most dangerous forms or the most lethal germs, has hindered research on vaccines and treatments for diseases they cause.
"We desperately need this new space," said Dr. James M. Hughes, director of the infectious disease center at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Some biodefense experts challenge the need for so many highest-containment labs. Those experts say that heightened security, along with other recent federal actions aimed at controlling exotic germs, is greatly increasing secrecy and threatening to reduce the scientific openness that nourishes good research. They said the elaborate rules might also discourage scientists from working in the field,
"Becoming an armed camp to prevent organisms from falling into the hands of malefactors is a self-defeating approach," said Dr. Stanley Falkow, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Stanford, who has criticized Washington's approach to biodefense.
Dr. Falkow decided last year to destroy his own plague cultures rather than abide by proposed regulations on germs that can be used as weapons. Even after the rules were loosened in response to complaints, he declined to work on such agents.
"These rules affect not just the scientists who work with me," he said, "but those who clean labs and all who have access to them. It's just not worth it."
The projects are unsettling local residents and researchers, too, particularly near a proposed Level 4 lab at the Boston University Medical Center, near Roxbury.
"The issue is one of trust," said Dr. David M. Ozonoff, an epidemiologist at the Boston University School of Public Health. "Though I still support such a lab in principle for public health reasons, there aren't sufficient safeguards to prevent work that violates the ethical standards of the scientific community. Nor can safety through civilian authority be assured."
The expansion is fueled by the National Institutes of Health, which has poured more than $1.7 billion a year into biodefense since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the lethal anthrax mailings a month later. 
Last September, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, announced that the institutes would grant $240 million to build two Level 4 National Biocontainment Laboratories, at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston and Boston University. Weeks later, the infectious diseases agency issued an additional $120 million in grants ranging from $7 million to $21 million to nine institutions to build Level 3 space at the Regional Biocontainment Laboratories.
The institutes are also overseeing the construction of Level 3 and 4 centers a $66.5 million building at its Rocky Mountain Laboratories in Hamilton, Mont., and a 100,000-square-foot $105 million Integrated Research Facility with Level 3 and 4 laboratories near the Army research installation at Fort Detrick, Md.
Although the research budget of the acclaimed biodefense lab at Fort Detrick is supposed to be cut, the health institutes are more than doubling the Level 3 and 4 space at its Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a spokesman for the centers said.
Moreover, an official of the health institutes said, so many universities and companies had built laboratories or were expanding them for Level 3 research that it was hard to determine how much Level 3 space existed. 
"We're considering conducting an inventory," said Rona Hirschberg, an administrator at the infectious diseases agency. 
Dr. Richard H. Ebright, a professor of chemistry at Rutgers, who is a lab director at its Waksman Institute of Microbiology in Piscataway, N.J., called much of the Level 4 construction overkill, as well as a misdirection of scarce resources. 
The needs, he added, "can be met entirely by the construction of a single large facility in a secure environment."
In interviews, Dr. Fauci and other senior American scientists and experts said more space was greatly needed, and they dismissed safety concerns. They said there had never been a documented case of illness in a community caused by an escaped pathogen from a high-security laboratory. 
But many experts agree that such laboratories radically change scientists' working conditions. Tighter security is evident, and not just at the Centers for Disease Control, which have armed the guards there, installed permanent perimeter fencing and taken other steps to ensure safety.
The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, which won the grant to build the 13,000-square-foot Level 4 laboratory, has installed elaborate security at its new 2,000-square-foot "baby" hot lab, where about 12 researchers will soon start to work on viruses that cause diseases like Lassa and Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fevers.
Entry to the $15.5 million center, once open to most on campus, is now restricted to people with coded identity cards who pass through two checkpoints. Background checks on researchers are routine, and access to the Level 4 lab requires electronic fingerprints. The university is also installing special doors and posting armed guards. 
On a tour, administrators called the lab a veritable "safe within a safe," separated on its own floor from the rest of the complex by pressurized air seals and welded scrubbed air ducts that filter air to and from the lab. In case of a loss of power loss, bioseals are to close off the lab automatically.
The lab is kept at a lower pressure than the atmosphere, so that a leak lets air in, not out. Scientists and technicians take chemical showers before and after work, which is carried out in pressurized suits and is monitored by security cameras. 
Planning for the Level 4 complex, which will cost $750,000 a year to operate, began in 1997. Dr. David H. Walker, executive director of the Galveston branch's center for biodefense and emerging infectious diseases, has slowly transformed a sleepy medical backwater into a top center to study naturally and unnaturally inspired disease. The center has recruited scientific superstars like Dr. C. J. Peters, its biodefense director who is widely known as the quirky hero who battled the Ebola outbreak in "The Hot Zone," the best-selling 1994 book by Richard Preston. 
Since the attacks of Sept. 11, biodefense has become big business. Galveston received $3.7 million in federal grants in the 1996-1997 fiscal year. In fiscal 2003-2004, it won nearly $200 million.
Dr. Walker said some community groups were initially hostile to placing a hot lab in an area prone to devastating hurricanes. He and his staff, he said, met repeatedly with the community to explain safety measures. 
Juan Pena, the president of the University Area Association and an employee of the institution, and Robert Mihovil, the program director of the group whose wife is a nurse at the campus, said the university had addressed their concerns. 
"They really included us in the planning," Mr. Mihovil said.
Several community leaders said that was not the case in Boston, the other winner of the competition, where opposition to the hot laboratories has been building. 
Although the University of Texas gave neighborhood groups an edited version of its grant application, Boston University did not do so for months. University representatives said the lab would not have classified work, but the application suggested that unidentified government subcontractors might work in the Level 3 and 4 areas, especially in the event of a bioterrorist strike or other national emergency.
The complex, near Roxbury, is in a poor and densely populated area. 
"The university has been uncooperative, elitist and condescending," said Chuck Turner, the Boston City Council member who represents the area.
Mr. Turner, who has introduced a resolution in the council to keep Level 4 labs out of Boston, said he questioned using Federal Express and other such couriers to deliver dangerous materials to the lab.
Alternatives for Community and Environment, a neighborhood association, plans to sue Boston University and the Boston Redevelopment Authority to block the project for environmental reasons. 
Dr. Sheldon Krimsky, a professor at Tufts, who is with the Council for Responsible Genetics, another opposition group, said he favored establishing a more active city biosafety committee similar to one formed in the mid-70's in neighboring Cambridge to oversee research and to review building plans for safety.
In an interview, Dr. Mark S. Klempner, Boston University medical school's associate provost for research, who is in charge of the project, said the laboratory would enhance the scientific and economic standing of the region and be a magnet for talent.
"That's the biggest frustration," Dr. Klempner said. "A year after telling people all these things, we find ourselves in front of the same people who are not in favor of the project, who still supply no data supporting the threats they say exist, asking the same questions. There are groups out there that don't really want a dialogue, which is what we want." 
Public opposition helped thwart competitors for the federal labs. The University of California at Davis, 90 minutes northeast of Berkeley and highly regarded for its research on infectious disease, was not selected partly because of community opposition, critics and public health officials said.
Donald Mooney, a lawyer opposed to the lab, said his community group had sent more than 1,200 pages to the university and the N.I.H. documenting opposition. 
"They would tell us which pathogens were on campus, but not their location or which researchers were working on them or the type of research that would be conducted," he said.
Maril Stratton, a spokeswoman at Davis, said the university had repeatedly reached out to newspapers, city officials and neighborhood groups to build support and had tried to be open and transparent in all its dealings.
"We made a most unusual effort to reach out," Ms. Stratton said. "But this is an activist community, and although the project was safe, it was a hard project. It sounded scary."
Concern that increased secrecy and security may harm science is increasing. Dr. Peters, head of the Galveston project, said he was worried that new restrictions might alienate researchers whom labs like his are trying to attract.
Dr. D. A. Henderson, who helped lead the campaign to eradicate smallpox and has been advising the federal health institutes for nearly two years, said the clash of cultures between scientific openness and tight security might not be resolvable.
"We've been well served by being pretty open," Dr. Henderson said. "And I worry about not sharing information that might advance the development of better antibiotics, more vaccines and drugs."
Dr. Hughes of the Centers for Disease Control said scientists would have to adjust to tighter security because of the growing threat of naturally occurring infectious diseases and bioterrorism.
"It took some of our people time to adjust," he said. "But most scientists understand the threat and are excited to take advantage of the new research opportunities that were never before available."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A protective suit appropriate for a Level 4 lab, which handles lethal germs, was demonstrated at the new National Biocontainment Laboratory at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. (Photo by John R. Glowczwski/University of Texas Medical Branch)(pg. F4) Chart/Map "A New Wave of Hot Labs" shows a map of the United States highlighting Level 4 (planned and existing); Highest safety level; diseases with no vaccine or treatment and Level 3 (planned and existing); For diseases with serious or lethal consequences. (Source by The Sunshine Project)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (92%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); BACTERIA (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); IMMUNOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BIOLOGY (77%); ETHICS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (72%); BIOLOGICS MFG (72%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Terrorism; Laboratories and Scientific Equipment; Vaccination and Immunization; Research; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; National Biocontainment Laboratories; Accidents and Safety; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Shortages; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; National Institutes of Health; Boston University; University of Texas

PERSON: Judith Miller; James M (Dr) Hughes; C J (Dr) Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



260 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk's Executive Warns of Deficit and Cuts 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y., Feb. 9 

 BODY:
In his first State of the County address, the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, warned on Monday night of the worst budget deficit in three decades. He urged spending reductions and said he would deliver a plan to cut costs to legislators this week.
 "All of the factors that can break our budget are converging in a single year," Mr. Levy said. "The only reasonable approach is to cut out as many inefficient aspects of government as we can." 
 Mr. Levy said state-imposed Medicaid costs and other mandates had strained Suffolk's budget, adding that getting relief from Albany would be his first priority. But to get that relief, Mr. Levy said, the county first has to reform itself and pass a government consolidation plan that he said he would introduce at a special legislative meeting Wednesday.
It may not be easy.
It has been a tumultuous first month for Mr. Levy, a Democrat, who was elected on his promises of clean government and wide-ranging fiscal reforms. The county's projected budget deficit for next year has swelled to $240 million, and Mr. Levy and the Republican-controlled Suffolk County Legislature have butted heads over parliamentary rules, proposed spending cuts and even the location of Monday night's speech.
That friction could become a political liability for Mr. Levy, who will need bipartisan cooperation from legislators to pass many of his proposed reforms.
"It's been one thing after another," Mr. Levy said in an interview before his speech. "They've been sending out a message that they're looking to make it a very, very partisan year."
In his 40-minute address at Southampton College, Mr. Levy also outlined plans to preserve undeveloped open space and create more moderately priced housing, two issues close to Suffolk voters' hearts. He proposed expanding the county's role in buying property for such housing and recommended creating a department of environment to focus on preservation.
Mr. Levy outlined plans to address an array of other high-profile political and social topics in Suffolk. 
He said he would try to ensure federal funding to study beach erosion, and would appoint someone to study breast cancer rates in the county. He also proposed installing more civilians in the Police Department, studying how to buy cheap prescription drugs from Canada and imposing new standards of ethics on county business. .
Despite the partisan acrimony leading up to Monday's speech, many Republican legislators applauded throughout and said they agreed with Mr. Levy on issues like affordable housing.
But Republican legislator Andrew Crecca said after the speech that Mr. Levy had exaggerated the looming deficits by $100 million and failed to take into account an improving national economy. Mr. Crecca called Mr. Levy's grim fiscal forecast a political ploy.
"He wants to paint a picture of doom and gloom," Mr. Crecca said. "If things do turn bad, he can blame it on the circumstances and not on his leadership."
Mr. Levy was the first Suffolk executive in decades to deliver his State of the County address away from the legislative chambers, an action that angered some legislators, who complained they had not been consulted before Mr. Levy made plans to take his show on the road. 
Mr. Levy defended his choice of venue, saying that people on Long Island's East End have long felt neglected by Suffolk government. Still, some criticized Mr. Levy for delivering the speech at Southampton College -- a non-county facility -- and others said he was pandering to Representative Tim Bishop, a Democrat who represents the East End in Congress.
"It's not a small thing," said Allan Binder, a Republican legislator. "It's not schoolyard third-grade anger. He decided to be the imperial executive and told us, 'You be here.' Why is he surprised that we're not running across the street to work with him?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, speaking last night.. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); COUNTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ETHICS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); CANCER (60%); BREAST CANCER (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); EROSION (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



261 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: In Nassau, the Challenge of a Scandal for a County Executive Who Promised Reform 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Thomas R. Suozzi wore the mantle of reform when he swept into office in 2002 as Nassau's first Democratic county executive in three decades, promising to solve a fiscal crisis and clean up corruption.
 But now, after winning praise for Nassau's fiscal turnaround and being noticed on the statewide political scene, he is struggling with a scandal that clouds his reformer image. 
 "He fell off the white horse he rode in on," said Stanley B. Klein, a political science professor at the C.W. Post campus of Long Island University and a Republican committeeman in Suffolk County.
How Mr. Suozzi will fare in the remaining half of his term, the fate of his ambitious county agenda and his own political future all hinge on how the scandal plays out. 
"This is a time of testing for this administration," Mr. Suozzi acknowledged at a recent news conference here. He was referring to accusations that his former deputy for economic development, Peter Sylver, was guilty of fiscal irregularities and sexual harassment.
No one knows how long the pending investigations will last. The County Legislature, county district attorney, Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States attorney and federal Department of Housing and Urban Development are all scrutinizing the case.
Equally uncertain is how much blame may fall on Mr. Suozzi and whether he will suffer lasting damage to his political clout and popularity. Before the scandal broke, his approval rating in the polls in this traditionally Republican county had soared to 70 percent.
"These problems will be fixed," vowed Mr. Suozzi, who has accepted responsibility and announced corrective steps. "We are better and stronger for it. It is now time to move on and get back to the important work that must be done." 
Critics take a dimmer view. "The damage is enormous, and he's done it to himself," said the County Legislature's Republican minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt. "The county has screeched to a halt."
The Republicans say that Mr. Suozzi broke his campaign pledge to make county government a model of efficiency and integrity by eliminating mismanagement, waste, corruption and favoritism. Further, they tie some troubling issues to him.
The first inkling of trouble came last fall, when the civil service director was fired after claiming that some of Mr. Sylver's staff had been paid with diverted federal grants, an accusation the county denied.
Next came disclosures about bills that Mr. Sylver had charged to a county credit card obtained with a falsified application. They included $707 for tinting his county car's windows and $3,400 for a trip to London to give a speech, after which he and his wife stayed three extra days. He later reimbursed the county.
Eventually Mr. Sylver resigned, saying that he was the victim of partisan politics.
But the scandal continued to unfold. Mr. Suozzi's financial deputy and the county comptroller uncovered systemic problems in Mr. Sylver's domain. They found an operation with a lack of procedures in which some workers were paid when absent, contracts were awarded without bidding and accounting was slipshod.
Then a jolting revelation came two weeks ago: Mr. Sylver's former assistant, a 23-year-old woman, had accused him of sexual harassment and attempted assault. She said that when she refused further advances, he had ordered her fired. After relaying a complaint to Mr. Suozzi, she had instead been promoted to a higher-paying job in another agency. She had agreed, in return, to drop her case under a confidential agreement.
"Another cover-up," declared Mr. Schmitt, the legislator, who charged that the administration had for months stonewalled his requests for Mr. Sylver's records.
The confidential agreement was released. "That's a real killer," said Professor Klein. "If you read the document, it's: 'You shut up, we pay you off."'
Mr. Suozzi insists that the case was thoroughly investigated, but that neither the accusation nor denial was proved. The settlement satisfied the woman, and she requested confidentiality to protect her privacy, he said.
Although Mr. Sylver declined to comment, his lawyer, Stephen Worth, said, "We deny all the allegations" of wrongdoing.
Critics say that the choice of Mr. Sylver's lawyer smacks of damage control. Mr. Sylver, who knows lawyers as a former associate dean of Hofstra Law School, is being defended by the county executive's friend and political ally. As mayor of Glen Cove, Mr. Suozzi picked Mr. Worth for appointment to the City Council. Mr. Suozzi said he suggested Mr. Worth to Mr. Sylver, who sought a private lawyer for advice on the allegations of fiscal irregularities. 
Republicans also point to a close Suozzi connection in the decision of Mr. Sylver's agencies to hire the Crowe Deegan law firm for $750,000 of work without competitive bidding. When he was mayor of Glen Cove, Mr. Suozzi hired a partner of the firm as the city attorney, and its partners donated $33,000 to his county executive campaign.
The administration defends Crowe Deegan, saying that its work is expert, it charges lower fees than the county's previous lawyers and it was needed quickly to save an endangered project. Bidding was not legally required, though the comptroller recommends it, and the administration says it will be done. 
Mr. Suozzi took office vowing to fix a broken county that was dependent on a state bailout and subject to a state-imposed oversight board. Alluding to his success in reviving Glen Cove, his slogan was "I can do it because I've done it."
As county executive, he was on a roll. He balanced the budget, replaced deficits with surpluses, cut the work force to its lowest level in 30 years, wrung concessions from the unions, reduced new borrowing and past debt and won Nassau's first credit upgrade in 15 years, then a second.
Harboring ambitions for higher office, Mr. Suozzi reached beyond Nassau. As president-elect of the New York State County Executives Association, he got Albany's attention by demanding that the state stop forcing localities to raise property taxes to help pay for its Medicaid program.
But lately the Sylver matters have preoccupied the administration.
"None of the original accomplishments can be obliterated, but there's no question this has certainly brought the agenda to a halt at the moment," said the Legislature's presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs, a Democrat.
Mr. Sylver is a graduate of Hofstra Law School who earned his way there as a university security guard and eventually became an administrator.
Mr. Suozzi put him in charge of housing, intergovernmental affairs and several economic development agencies. Mr. Sylver became prominent alongside Mr. Suozzi by orchestrating dozens of "town hall" forums at which the county executive presided. Lately, however, critics say Mr. Sylver has been in hiding, eluding the Legislature's subpoenas to testify at hearings.
"Suozzi brought in a lot of new people into government, and one of them explodes in front of his face," Professor Klein said. A deeper background check would have discovered that Mr. Sylver had filed for personal bankruptcy.
The county operations that Mr. Sylver inherited were disorganized. One agency with a vacant board was little more than a box of assorted files. The comptroller's audit found problems dating to the prior administration, including $119,000 spent on golf, charities and staff parties. 
Mr. Suozzi praised Mr. Sylver's achievements. His staff rescued a failing $1.6 million housing program from a federal takeover. The industrial development agency handled more than $1 million in projects, compared with $200,000 in the prior administration. And he saved $250,000 in rent by moving his agencies into empty county offices.
But Mr. Sylver's staff had trouble clearing local grants, said Lisanne Altmann, a Democratic legislator. Last spring he arranged a photo opportunity with giant checks totaling $100,000 for several villages, she said, but the real checks never arrived. "The problem with the administration is they were in a big hurry to get things done" and sometimes cut corners procedurally, she said.
Mr. Suozzi's fellow Democrats in the Legislature, who hold a fragile 10-to-9 majority, complain that they were ambushed by the sex harassment case. "It's like sending in soldiers and not telling them there are land mines," said Ms. Altmann.
The administration says it did not alert the legislators because it thought the hearings were limited to fiscal issues.
The Nassau Democratic Party chairman, Jay Jacobs, called the Sylver episode "a bump in the road" for Mr. Suozzi. "We're talking about one member of the administration who made mistakes in judgment that, when all added up, may have used $15,000 out of a $2 billion budget," he said. "They've spent far more than that investigating it." 
But Mr. Schmitt disagrees: "They're trying to spin it that this is just one guy, just expenses on one credit card," he said. "It's much more -- more than $1 million in questionable spending" involving salaries, contracts and grants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas R. Suozzi, the county executive of Nassau since 2002. (Photo by Dan Neville for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (93%); COUNTIES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); ETHICS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRENDS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (67%); CITIES (51%) Ethics; Finances; Sexual Harassment; Politics and Government ; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: Bruce Lambert; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Peter Sylver

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



262 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Bill On Health Coverage For Entertainment Workers Vetoed 

BYLINE:  By Sabrina Tavernise (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 Gov. George E. Pataki vetoed a bill yesterday that would have required thestate to subsidize continued health care coverage for out-of-work entertainment industry employees. 
The bill would have required that $2.5 million in state funds be made available to help employees of theaters, circuses, and the music, film and recording industries, among others, according to a memorandum released by Mr. Pataki's press office. Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat and a co-sponsor of the bill, said last night that it was being amended to address criticisms and that it would be resubmitted today. "We've got to keep New York livable for people in the entertainment business, and this was crucial," he said. Sabrina Tavernise (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); BUDGETS (88%) Medicine and Health; Vetoes (US) ; Law and Legislation; Entertainment; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Labor; Medicine and Health; Unemployment; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



263 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Some Personal Outtakes From Olympic 'Miracle'

BYLINE:  By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
BY now, you've probably heard about, if not seen, "Miracle," the sports movie that transcends sports. It's the story of how Herb Brooks's cold-blooded coaching forged the 1980 United States Olympic hockey team that upset the Soviet Union and won the gold medal at Lake Placid during the cold war. With hostages in Iran and the Soviets having invaded Afghanistan, America badly needed a jolt of jingoism. 
 Nearly a quarter of a century later, coincidentally, with young American soldiers being ambushed in Iraq and with a struggling economy, the movie comes at a time when America needs another lift. 
 The movie's focus is on Brooks, as it should be. If coaching is making a team better than it really is, Brooks may have done the most remarkable coaching job in the history of any sport. And in a movie that never needs to get corny because honesty is always better than hokum, Brooks, portrayed so well by Kurt Russell, is the sculptor of a shocking upset by mostly college kids.
This was a dream triumph, not a Dream Team, the basketball term that players like Michael Jordan, Larry Bird and Magic Johnson popularized in the 1992 Summer Olympics. In a way, the Soviets, for all practical purposes, were state-sponsored professionals on what was world hockey's Dream Team. Yes, better than any of the best National Hockey League teams of that era.
With N.H.L. players having participatedin the last three Winter Olympics and pros participating in most Olympic sports, you will never see another miracle quite like it.
But for anyone who was in Lake Placid, the movie prompted outtakes that, understandably, could not be squeezed into the screenplay. The lasting memory here is a Sunday scene after their 4-2 gold-medal victory over Finland -- their appearance on the auditorium stage of Lake Placid High School, which served as the media center.
Throughout the earlier games, Brooks had seldom permitted his players to talk to the news media. But now, still in their sweaty red-white-and-blue uniforms and with their gold medals hanging from red-white-and-blue ribbons around their necks, here was the team, in shoes instead of skates, flopping into big chairs as Brooks stood at a microphone.
"You're watching a group of people who startled the athletic world," Brooks said. "Not the hockey world, but the athletic world."
Among all the notebooks and microphones, a reporter asked if any of the players had one word that described what they had accomplished.
"Well," said Mike Eruzione, the captain who had scored the winning goal against the Soviets on Friday, "we're all a bunch of big doolies now."
To his listeners, doolies was a new word. Realizing an explanation was needed, Eruzione turned to Phil Verchota, a left wing who had coined it.
"I got a gold today, so I'm a big doolie," Verchota said. "It just means big wheel, big gun, big shot."
"Is there," another reporter said, "any favorite Brooksism to describe what happened here?"
"Well," said John Harrington, a right wing who was quietly famous among his teammates for his imitations of Brooks, "we were damned if we did and damned if we didn't. Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me. We reloaded, we went up to that tiger and spit in his eye. We went to the well again -- the water was colder, the water was deeper."
His teammates were roaring now and even Brooks was smiling, more or less.
"Would you say," Harrington was asked, "that Herb Brooks is a big doolie?"
"Sometimes he thinks he's a real big doolie," Harrington said, smiling while peeking at the coach, "but yeah, he's a real big doolie tonight."
Soon another player appeared. Jack O'Callahan, holding a bottle of beer, stumbled up the steps to the stage as his teammates cheered.
"As the only player from Charlestown, Mass.," a Boston reporter said to O'Callahan, "what do you have to say?"
"Well," said the husky defenseman, standing up slowly, "Charlestown is in the shadow of Bunker Hill and the Americans won at Bunker Hill, and the Americans won at Lake Placid."
When reminded by a reporter that the Americans had not won at Bunker Hill, O'Callahan shook his head.
"I don't want to hear that," he said. "What do you think there's a monument there for? They won. They won."
But O'Callahan knew what team had won the Olympic gold medal. Only the athletes get medals, coaches don't. But an Olympic official quietly slipped Brooks a gold medal while the Soviets were still wondering why Viktor Tikhonov, the stern Soviet coach, had benched Vladislav Tretiak, considered by many the best goaltender in hockey history, after Mark Johnson's last-second goal in Friday's first period had tied the score at 2-2.
"He is not playing well," Vladimir Jursinov, the Soviet assistant coach, said later of Tretiak, "and my feeling is, he is nervous."
Years later, Slava Fetisov, by then a Devils defenseman who had been on that Soviet team, acknowledged how he and his teammates had been stunned to see Tretiak benched. But on the way to Lake Placid that winter, below steep forests of white birch, a lone teenager, in long black pants and a gray sweater, was seen skating with a hockey stick along the Ausable River's endless ice. 
That lone teenager would retrieve his puck, shoot it and skate after it again, so alone and yet so content. As so many of the American Olympians had as youngsters. Nobody realized it at the time, but that teenager was the omen of the miracle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); COLD WAR (72%); ICE HOCKEY (58%) Olympic Games; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Coaches and Managers; Olympic Games (1980); Winter Games (Olympics) ; Motion Pictures; Hockey, Ice ; Olympic Games; Winter Games (Olympics)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); DALLAS STARS (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%) Dave Anderson; Herb Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%) Russia; Finland

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2004 



264 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: A Winegrowing Family at the Center of a Wider Web

BYLINE: By SVEN BIRKERTS. 
Sven Birkerts is the author of ''My Sky Blue Trades: Growing Up Counter in a Contrary Time.''

 BODY:

THE WINEMAKER'S DAUGHTER
By Timothy Egan
305 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95.
 Timothy Egan is one of life's right-thinking optimists, well aware of the warping power of greed, pride and the whole array of deadly sins but pulled by lodestone force to tales of ultimate ethical triumph. He is also a skilled correspondent for The New York Times with a deeply informed understanding of how people inhabit place, and he has shown his talents in documentary works like ''Lasso the Wind: Away to the New West'' and ''The Good Rain: Across Time and Terrain in the Pacific Northwest.''
 Now in ''The Winemaker's Daughter'' Mr. Egan has channeled his energies and preoccupations into the form of the novel, creating an elaborate skein of situations that allow him to approach his subject using character and the contrivances of plot. The shift to invention is not entirely smooth, alas. The voice of his intentions -- which are compellingly cautionary but also at times didactic -- is a bit louder than the conversation of his people. This is a more abstract way of saying that his characters are not quite real enough yet. They are strong templates, interesting possibilities, but the strong hand of premise holds them back.
 Mr. Egan's narrative scheme does double duty. On one hand it creates the armature of event, the complicated play of cause and effect that drives the characters and links them to a layered social and political reality. On the other it makes overt the philosophical-ecological understanding that is, in a sense, the message of the novel, that the world is a living web.
 At the center of the web we find the Cartolano family, winegrowers living in eastern Washington State on land made fruitful by the public works triumph of the Grand Coulee Dam. Angelo, the paterfamilias, immigrated to America as a boy and after long years of hard work made his reputation growing a fine nebbiolo grape. He is the rough-hewn lover of the land now looking to hand his legacy along.
 As the novel opens, family and friends are gathered on the estate for a seasonal celebration. The daughter, Brunella, has driven in from Seattle, where she works for an elusive billionaire developer, drawing up the impact statements he needs to speed his projects along. Passionate, idealistic, outspoken, she will be the focus of the story.
 But there are others at table. Angelo's son Niccolo and his friend Teddy have stopped in before heading off to work as firefighting smoke jumpers; his old cronies are there to offer crusty jibes. Guests eat and drink, and when Niccolo gets up to announce that he wants to return home to take the helm with Angelo, the old man is overjoyed. ''Wine is,'' he declares, ''a living thing, a companion. With Niccolo's promise just now, we will not be without our companion for another 60 years.'' If readers find themselves casting Anthony Quinn for the part, they may be forgiven.
 Mr. Egan's opening conveys a communal relishing of what has been as well a tremor of anxious expectation. For of course we know that the fates must intervene. In the festive chatter comes word of spreading wildfires in the vicinity, and there are inklings of unrest about the water supply. But as Angelo might say, Domani.
 As ''The Winemaker's Daughter'' sets up a narrative ecology of interconnectedness, economical summary is impossible. Suffice it to say that crisis and tragedy quickly crowd out everything else. Soon after a deadly firefighting disaster, Leon Treadtoofar, a forest service investigator, starts tracing suspicious leads and finds that local Indians have been buying up much of the area's available water for a casino project. Could they also be diverting other supplies illegally from local aquifers? 
 As in Roman Polanski's film ''Chinatown,'' which also turns on the mysterious whereabouts of water, everything starts to connect. What Brunella discovers when the veils are yanked away is a conspiracy that ties together ancient feuds among fishing families, spawning habits of salmon, big city development schemes and complex tribal subterfuge. Behind everything is the familiar specter of human greed.
 But if Mr. Polanski pushed into darkness and left us with a vision of the ultimate obscurity of human motivation, Mr. Egan goes quite the other way. For this author the villainy is identifiable, explicable and correctable. Once the dramas are played out, reparations are made, and the balance swings right again. Here, in the tying up of threads and the scrupulous meting out of deserved fates, a certain credibility gets lost.
 But maybe I am imposing a demanding literary expectation on a work that has other aspirations. Certainly ''The Winemaker's Daughter'' is a good read, showcasing Mr. Egan's lived-in sense of place as well as his knowledge of wine culture. The prose is often evocative, though he is more at ease with topographies than with psychology. His simplified characterizations, the intensifications of coincidence and the neatness of the denouement leave us entertained and morally instructed, but if the novel were a wine, I would have to say it lacks a lingering finish.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Timothy Egan (Photo by Nick Jahn/Alfred A. Knopf) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); WINERIES (89%); LITERATURE (73%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Sven Birkerts; Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (88%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



265 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ex-Financial Officer of Tyco Takes the Stand at His Trial
In his first day of testimony in his trial on criminal fraud charges, Mark H. Swartz, left, the former chief financial officer of Tyco International, told jurors that he had never broken the law while at the company.
 Meanwhile, lawyers for L. Dennis Kozlowski, Tyco's former chief executive and Mr. Swartz's co-defendant, rested his defense without calling any witnesses. [Page C3.]

U.S. Urged to Block Oracle Bid
PeopleSoft announced that staff lawyers at the Department of Justice are recommending that the agency block Oracle's $9.4 billion hostile takeover of PeopleSoft on the grounds the deal is anticompetitive. [C4.]

A Lower Yuan May Cut Trade Deficit
Hints that China might let its currency fall 5 percent to 10 percent against the dollar in the next few months have stoked hopes in the United States of a smaller trade deficit, but many economists said that the yuan would have to drop 20 percent or more to make a difference in trade flows. Market Place. [C13.]

Microsoft Warns of a Critical Flaw
Users of Microsoft's operating system software have to patch their systems again or their computers will be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, the company said. [C13.]

Viacom to Spin Off Blockbuster
Viacom approved a tax-free spinoff of its stake in Blockbuster and took a related charge of $1.3 billion. [C12.]

Chrysler Ex-Finance Chief Testifies
A former chief financial officer of Chrysler testified in the fraud lawsuit that he would have backed the 1998 merger with Daimler-Benz as a good deal for Chrysler investors even if he had learned that Daimler had planned it as a takeover. [C4.]

Judges Skeptical of Book Ban
Two judges expressed skepticism about whether the government can ban the sale of a book that purports to show people how they can legally stop paying income taxes. [C4.]

50 Laid Off at Goldman Sachs
Goldman Sachs laid off 50 traders and sales executives in its equities division, in the latest sign that the firm's restructuring of the unit is picking up speed. The moves underscore the growing influence of a cadre of top-level Goldman executives who have risen to prominence because of their performance in the firm's bond and commodities trading division and who have taken a knife to Goldman's equity unit. [C10.]

Delta Cuts Long-Range Jet Order
Delta Air Lines, which is struggling to be profitable, said that it would not add five Boeing 777 long-range jets to its fleet as it had planned to do over the next two years. [C3.]

Philips Bounced Back in 2003
Royal Philips Electronics, which earned 695 million euros ($883 million) in 2003, said it profited from a revived semiconductor business. [World Business, Section W.]

A Profit for Big Swiss Bank
UBS had a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit, despite losses from the default of the Erb Group. [World Business, Section W.]

Stock Gauges Increase Modestly
Stocks had modest gains. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 34.82 points, to 10,613.85. The Standard & Poor's 500 was up 5.73 points, to 1,145.54, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 14.76 points, to 2,075.33. [C13.]

New Standards for U.S. Landlords
After the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City was bombed in 1995, the government ordered new standards to make leased space less vulnerable to explosives. Commercial Real Estate. [C8.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,613.85 up 34.82Nasdaq composite -- 2,075.33 up 14.7610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.11% up 0.05The euro -- $1.2710 up 0.0024The dollar -- 105.56 yen down 0.13Graph tracks the daily closing price of Goldman Sachs shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (86%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MERGERS (75%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); AIRLINES (60%); AIRCRAFT MFG (50%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (50%); INCOME TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); ORACLE CORP (92%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); VIACOM INC (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); BOEING CO (51%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); TYC (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); PHIA (BIT) (50%); PHIA (AMS) (50%); PHG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



266 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Watching The Jobs Go By

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
To be permitted to read the rest of this column, you must first answer the following question correctly:
 Go on, try it. After all, 83 percent of Japanese high school seniors got it right (though only 30 percent of American seniors). The correct answer is (c). If you answered incorrectly, though, keep reading -- think of it as a social promotion. 
 The topic today is the growing furor over the outsourcing of jobs to India -- and, more broadly, educational lapses here. One reason for the jobless recovery in the U.S. is that it doesn't make much sense to have an American radiologist, say, examine your X-ray when it can be done so much more cheaply in New Delhi.
 Indeed, why should computer software be written, taxes prepared, pathology specimens examined, financial analysis done or homework graded in the U.S., when all of that can be done more cheaply in Bangalore? I.B.M. is moving thousands of jobs to India and China, and Reuters says it will have Indian reporters cover some U.S. companies from there. 
 All this is unsettling. But to me the alarm seems overwrought -- and dangerous, for it is likely to fuel calls for protectionism. A dozen years ago, there was a similar panic about high-tech jobs going abroad, and people said that Asia would be making computer chips while Americans produced potato chips. 
 Instead, free trade worked. Some autoworkers lost their jobs, but America emerged stronger than ever. Studies by Catherine Mann of the Institute for International Economics suggest that it is the same this time. Outsourcing raises American productivity, gives our economy a boost, increases foreign demand for U.S. products and leaves us better off. 
 Yet, as an Indian friend, Sunil Subbakrishna, pointed out to me, there is one step we should take in response to this wave of outsourcing: bolster our second-rate education system.
 Mr. Subbakrishna, a management consultant specializing in technology, notes that in his native Bangalore, children learn algebra in elementary school. All in all, he says, the average upper-middle-class child in Bangalore finishes elementary school with a better grounding in math and science than the average kid in the U.S.
 I saw the same thing when I lived in China and interviewed college applicants there. The SAT wasn't offered in China, so Chinese high school students took the Graduate Record Examinations -- intended for would-be graduate students -- and many still scored in the 99th percentile in math.
 The latest international survey, called Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study, found that the best-performing eighth graders were, in order, from Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan, Belgium and the Netherlands. The U.S. ranked 19th, just after Latvia. (India and China weren't surveyed.)
 ''For too many graduates, the American high school diploma signifies only a broken promise,'' declares a major new study released yesterday by three education policy organizations. Called the American Diploma Project, it found that 60 percent of employers rated graduates' skills as only ''fair'' or ''poor.''
 The broader problem is not just in schools but society as a whole: There's a tendency in U.S. intellectual circles to value the humanities but not the sciences. Anyone who doesn't nod sagely at the mention of Plato's cave is dismissed as barely civilized, while it's no blemish to be ignorant of statistics, probability and genetics. If we're going to revere Plato, as we should, we should also remember that his academy supposedly had a sign at the entrance: ''Let no one ignorant of geometry enter here.''
 In 1957, the Soviet launching of Sputnik frightened America into substantially improving math and science education. I'm hoping that the loss of jobs in medicine and computers to India and elsewhere will again jolt us into bolstering our own teaching of math and science.


GRAPHIC: Diagram 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); SNACK FOODS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Education and Schools; Mathematics; Science and Technology

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (77%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (88%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (77%); BELGIUM (65%); LATVIA (50%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



267 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Plans Million-Barrel Cut in Output

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
OPEC sought to strengthen its grip on world oil markets on Tuesday with an announcement of cuts in production, aggressively displaying its desire to maintain oil prices at their highest sustained level in two decades. Prices rose in response, up more than 3 percent in New York, to $33.87 a barrel.
 The formal reduction in output by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, intended to withdraw one million barrels of crude oil a day from the market starting in April and seen by some here as a surprise, would lower the group's production objective to 23.5 million barrels a day. OPEC members also called for stricter adherence to their own quotas in an effort to reduce overproduction by a further 1.5 million barrels a day. 
 ''We will do what it takes to keep the price stable,'' said Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's pivotal and most productive member. ''Saudi Arabia could not countenance waiting until the next meeting to decide on a cut as that would be too late.''
 OPEC's announcement emphasized a more forceful approach in its strategy to pre-empt developments that might cause oil prices to decline, like increased production by Russia, Norway or other producing nations that do not belong to OPEC.
 Economists said that OPEC's production cut, while unlikely to push prices up enough to damage the American economy, could dampen the recovery somewhat.
 ''Generally, lower oil prices are better for the economy than higher prices,'' said Joel Prakker, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a consulting firm in St. Louis. ''That said, oil at $33 a barrel is not the end of the economy. It just means it won't grow as fast as if prices were falling or were $20.''
 A White House spokesman reacted to OPEC's move on Tuesday with apprehension. Shortly after the output reduction was announced, the spokesman, Trent Duffy, said, ''It is our hope that producers do not take actions that undermine the American economy and American workers, and American consumers for that matter.'' 
 OPEC cited expectations of waning seasonal demand as the main justification for the production cuts, but some individual representatives cited other reasons. Libya's energy minister, Abdulhafid Mahmoud Zlitni, said ''excessive supply'' from growing production by non-OPEC members contributed to the group's decision. OPEC accounts for about a third of global production, down from 65 percent three decades ago.
 It remains to be seen in the weeks and months ahead whether OPEC will actually reduce production as much as it says it intends. Together, the steps outlined on Tuesday would effectively cut OPEC output nearly 10 percent, an ambitious objective that was met with skepticism by energy industry executives and analysts who see little incentive for member nations to reduce production while oil prices remain relatively high.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, benchmark crude oil for March delivery increased $1.04 a barrel, the biggest one-day gain in more than a week. It has traded above $30 a barrel for more than two months, and has sold at levels from $25 to $40 for almost two years. Five years ago, oil traded for $11.30 a barrel.
 Prices have remained relatively high even though OPEC's 11 members have regularly surpassed production quotas. This has increased revenue significantly -- every OPEC nation relies on oil for a significant part of its budget, and most OPEC members remain under considerable fiscal pressure.
 Venezuela, which has been incapable of meeting its production quota since a government purge last year of managers at the national oil company, devalued its currency by 17 percent this week to generate more revenue from international oil sales. About half of Venezuela's export revenue comes from oil, making production cuts particularly painful. 
 Officials here in Algeria, the host of Tuesday's gathering, said they were doing all they could to increase domestic oil production to finance antiterrorism efforts and the rebuilding of essential infrastructure wrecked by a decade of civil conflict that has resulted in more than 100,000 deaths.
 The Algerian finance minister, Abdelatif Benachenhou, confirmed in an interview on Tuesday that his government intended to lobby with other OPEC members to increase Algeria'as production quota. Mr. Benachenhou also stressed a need for higher oil prices because of the decline of the dollar against the euro.
 ''Almost 95 percent of our exports are in dollars while more than 90 percent of our imports are in euros,'' he said. ''Algeria is like a household that earns its money in dollars and spends it in euros.''
 Such sentiment appears to put much of the responsibility for any short-term cuts in OPEC production on Saudi Arabia, which has greater capacity to make rapid shifts in its output. Mr. Naimi, the Saudi minister, affirmed his goal of getting the commodity price of oil down to $25 a barrel, but he generated few believers that anyone in OPEC wanted lower prices.
 ''It remains to be seen whether the Saudis can do it,'' said Katherine Specter, an energy strategist at Deutsche Bank. ''For now, it's still mostly an empty statement.''
 Even so, the psychological effect of OPEC's announcement and the prospect of higher oil prices evoked surprise and concern among several energy company representatives who came to Algiers to follow Tuesday's meeting. ''We will have to react to this right away,'' said Shigeru Kikuchi, an energy analyst at Idemitsu, a large Japanese refinery company. ''It was not something we had expected.''
 OPEC would need to cut its output by only about a million barrels a day to keep prices at the higher end of its proposed trading range of $22 to $28 a barrel, said Jim Burkhard, director of oil market analysis at Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 OPEC's price, based on the average price of several types of crude produced by its members, has been above $28 since the beginning of December -- after the previous production cut of 900,000 barrels in September. The OPEC price is generally $2 to $3 a barrel below that of higher-quality West Texas intermediate crude oil traded in New York.
 OPEC's price range is of keen interest to the oil markets as members continue to voice concern that the declining value of the dollar, the currency in which oil is priced, makes their trade in other currencies more expensive. In fact, OPEC seems prepared to allow oil prices to remain above $28 for some time.
 ''A sense of higher prices, whether stated policy or not, is what is happening in practice,'' Mr. Burkhard said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, speaking with journalists in Algiers yesterday. He said that OPEC ''could not countenance waiting until the next meeting to decide on a cut as that would be too late.'' (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Lowering Its Target''OPEC reduced its quotas yesterday, but it may exceed them if history is any guide.Graph tracks OPEC production and quota* from January 2003 to January 2004.NEW QUOTA: -4.1%*Excluding Iraq(Source by Platts)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Ripples From Algiers''Yesterday's decision by OPEC to cut production quotas sent oil prices higher.CRUDE OIL PRICEGraph tracks near-month contract, daily closes, since January 2003.Yesterday: $33.87U.S. IMPORTS OF OPEC OIL AS PERCENTAGE OF CONSUMPTIONGraph tracks U.S. imports of OPEC oil as percentage of consumption since 1985.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Energy Information Administration)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Quotas; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



268 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13; THE MARKETS: Market Place

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: If China let its currency rise 5 percent, it wouldn't do the U.S. much good. But 20 percent, maybe.

BYLINE: By Eduardo Porter; Keith Bradsher in Hong Kong contributed reporting to this article.

 BODY:
HINTS that China might let its currency rise 5 to 10 percent against the dollar in the next few months have stoked hopes in the United States of a smaller trade deficit and some stanching, at least, of the flow of manufacturing jobs to China. 
 But representatives of American unions and manufacturers, along with many economists, said yesterday that the yuan would have to rise 20 percent or more to make much of a difference in trade flows -- a move that no one expects.
 ''Five percent is something, but it's certainly not enough to stem the tide,'' said Franklin J. Vargo, vice president for international economic affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers. Ron Blackwell, director for corporate affairs at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., agreed. ''It would not change very significantly the imbalance in trade and investment with China,'' he said. 
 The official Chinese news agency Xinhua said yesterday that government officials denied reports in a Chinese financial newspaper over the weekend that the central bank was considering revaluing the currency by as much as 5 percent by March and perhaps by another 5 percent toward the end of the year, according to Reuters. 
 At a meeting yesterday of top Chinese officials to discuss financial issues, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said China would ''maintain the basic stability of the yuan at a reasonable and balanced level,'' Reuters said. 
 Since 1994, China has firmly pegged the yuan to the dollar, but lately has come under growing international pressure to let it rise. In a thinly veiled reference to China, finance ministers of the Group of 7 industrialized countries, gathered last weekend in Boca Raton, Fla., said ''more flexibility in exchange rates is desirable for major countries or economic areas that lack such flexibility.''
 The weekend reports out of China were received with some skepticism. ''Seeing is believing,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''There have been many false starts before.'' 
 Goldman Sachs, which has hired some of the best-connected Chinese economists, has been predicting since last autumn that China would revalue soon. But other investment banks, including Morgan Stanley, have been more dubious, noting that while China runs a large trade surplus with the United States, it runs deficits with other countries and has only a slight surplus over all.
 In the United States, protectionist sentiment has been rising along with the current account deficit with China, which swelled to about $125 billion last year, from $83 billion in 2001. 
 Mr. Vargo pointed out that the three million manufacturing jobs lost over the last three years could be attributed in good measure to the drop in manufacturing exports, which fell by over $100 billion between the third quarter of 2000 and the same period of 2002, when the dollar was at its strongest. 
 As the dollar has fallen over the last year, overall manufacturing exports have recovered. But it is against the euro, for the most part, that the dollar has gotten cheaper, cutting into the European Union's exports, dampening Europe's recovery -- and inciting European officials to join the calls for a weaker yuan. 
 China, said Mr. Blackwell, is a free rider, letting the rest of the world bear the brunt of a global realignment of currencies driven by a dollar that is weakening under the weight of the United States' large current account deficit.
 ''The problem is that the free rider has about a fifth of the world population,'' he said.
 Not all economists agree that China should shoulder this cost. Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, a forecasting firm in Valhalla, N.Y., argued that ''it is a mistake for the U.S. to try to impair the Chinese economy'' by pushing Beijing to raise the yuan's value. 
 ''The rich world has ganged up on China,'' said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist of Morgan Stanley. He argues that China is not causing the United States trade deficit. Rather than blame China for its trade deficit, he argues, the United States should recognize that it has a trade imbalance because it spends beyond its means. If the deficit with China were to close, Mr. Roach says, it would open up with another country. 
 While most analysts agree that a 5 percent appreciation of the yuan would have little impact on investment and trade flows, there is less agreement about how big a move would be needed to effect a change. 
 Mr. Roach said currency values would need to swing sharply to significantly curtail either American investment in China or Chinese exports to the United States. ''China competes on the basis of labor costs, technology, infrastructure and other factors,'' Mr. Roach said. ''The currency is a small piece of the equation.'' 
 Yet C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a research center in Washington, said that a 25 percent rise in the yuan could reduce the United States' trade deficit with China by about $40 billion. It would also make it easier for other Asian nations to let their currencies drift up, too, slicing America's global trade deficit -- currently about $490 billion a year -- by another $10 billion.
 Over all, Mr. Bergsten said, letting the yuan rise by 25 percent would ultimately add 500,000 high-paying jobs to the American economy.
 There is no sign that anything like such a shift is under consideration in Beijing. Indeed, a spokesman for the Treasury Department in Washington said yesterday that if Chinese officials were weighing any sort of move, the weekend news reports would probably derail it.
 Still, Beijing has to be mindful, at least, of the protectionist talk in the United States. 
 Last September, Mr. Schumer and co-sponsors from both parties introduced a bill contending that the yuan was undervalued, on average, by 27.5 percent and calling for American tariffs against Chinese imports to compensate. Democratic presidential candidates, including Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, have also been talking tough.
 If China's trade imbalance with the United States continues to swell, the pressure could reach a boiling point. At the current growth rate, Mr. Vargo of the National Association of Manufacturers argues, the trade deficit with China could triple by 2008, ''fanning such protectionism that it would risk affecting the whole world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%); AFL-CIO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



269 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Trade Deficit Declines

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

 BODY:
Mexico's trade deficit declined in 2003 to $5.6 billion, 29 percent less than the $7.9 billion deficit in 2002, the finance ministry reported. The ministry said higher prices for Mexico's oil exports accounted for most of the decrease. 
The higher oil prices made up for stagnant manufacturing exports, which dipped 0.4 percent in 2003. Even though more than 90 percent of Mexico's exports go to the United States, Mexico's recovery has lagged that of the United States. But the figures for December exports suggest that the economy may finally be starting to rebound. Exports rose 11.2 percent, to $14.9 billion, in the last month of 2003. Manufacturing exports increased 10.2 percent. The figures were released on Monday. Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%) International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



270 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; COMPANY NEWS

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: G.M. SETTLES SUIT ON LENDING DISCRIMINATION

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation has agreed to pay as much as $11.2 million to settle a class-action lawsuit that claimed its finance unit charged higher interest rates for blacks than for whites. 
The finance unit, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, will pay as much as $9.6 million in fees and expenses and spend $1.6 million to educate consumers about credit financing, the automaker said. The settlement does not include payments to consumers, G.M. said. The finance unit will also cap how much G.M. dealers can mark up interest rates on vehicle loans and start a marketing effort aimed at generating 1.25 million loan offers over five years to black and Hispanic customers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (88%); RACE & RACISM (87%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (87%); CONSUMER LENDING (86%); AUTOMAKERS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%) Automobiles; Suits and Litigation; Discrimination; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Credit; Interest Rates; Advertising and Marketing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Automobiles

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; General Motors Acceptance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



271 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Sweeps to 2 Victories As Clark Drops Out of Race

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts rolled to commanding victories in the Tennessee and Virginia primaries on Tuesday, solidifying his position as the perhaps unstoppable front-runner for the Democratic nomination and dealing a serious blow to his two Southern rivals.
 Mr. Kerry won by substantial margins in each state, and surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that he ran well among whites and blacks alike. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Gen. Wesley K. Clark, who fought hard in their native region to halt Mr. Kerry's drive to the nomination, finished far behind.
 With third-place showings, General Clark was returning to his hometown, Little Rock, Ark., where he planned to announce on Wednesday that he was withdrawing from the race for the nomination, a senior campaign aide said. The move by the general, a first-time candidate and former supreme allied commander of NATO, will end a candidacy that many Democrats once considered among the strongest. [Page A25.] 
 The victories were Mr. Kerry's first in the South and an important test of his national appeal. He has now won 12 of the first 14 Democratic primaries and caucuses -- his only losses were in South Carolina and Oklahoma -- and his campaign is increasingly focusing its attention on an anticipated general election battle with President Bush.
 Mr. Kerry told a rollicking rally at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., on Tuesday night: ''Once again, the message rings out loud and clear. Americans are voting for change -- East and West, North, and now in the South.'' He then turned his fire on Mr. Bush, denouncing him for the ''wreckage'' of the economy.
 With 99 percent of the vote counted in Virginia, Mr. Kerry had 52 percent to Mr. Edwards's 27 percent. General Clark had 9 percent.
 In Tennessee, with 96 percent of the vote tallied, Mr. Kerry had 41 percent, Mr. Edwards 27 and General Clark 23. Howard Dean was in single digits in both states.
 The results increased the pressure on Mr. Kerry's rivals to reassess their candidacies. 
 Mr. Edwards vowed to take his campaign on to Wisconsin, which votes next Tuesday, and dismissed the idea that the race was over. The voters want ''an election, not a coronation,'' he said.
 Nick Baldick, his campaign manager, argued that with fewer than a quarter of the delegates selected, ''I don't think we're remotely close to that point yet.''
 Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, who did not compete in the final days of the Virginia and Tennessee contests and has yet to win a primary or caucus, is also focusing on Wisconsin and was campaigning there on Tuesday. 
 Even so, many Democrats said Mr. Kerry's remaining challengers had little chance of toppling him. Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, chairman of the Democratic national convention, in an interview after the polls closed, called for the party to close ranks around Mr. Kerry.
 ''The time has come to rally around Senator Kerry,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''He has won in every region of the country and we should unite behind him.''
 Kerry Donley, chairman of the Democratic Party in Virginia, said: ''I think the race is probably over. This furthers John Kerry's momentum, it shows he's competitive in the South, and it's probably a fairly serious blow to the candidacies of Wes Clark and John Edwards.''
 Steve Murphy, who was campaign manager for Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri until Mr. Gephardt's withdrawal from the race, said: ''The only thing that could stop John Kerry now is if he pulls a Howard Dean and blows himself out. That's not likely. He's nothing if not cautious.''
 But even in the face of Mr. Kerry's impressive victories, Dr. Dean told an enthusiastic crowd at the Irish Heritage and Cultural Center in Milwaukee: ''This is a chance to turn around a campaign that's been managed by the media and the folks inside the Beltway. Wisconsin voters have a long history for standing up for what they believe, not when it's popular but when it really matters.''
 Dr. Dean's campaign manager, Roy Neel, said, ''We're throwing the kitchen sink in Wisconsin,'' although he acknowledged that Mr. Kerry was well ahead in the polls there.
 There were 151 delegates at stake in Tuesday's voting. Mr. Kerry showed particular strength among black voters, carrying two-thirds of their vote in Virginia and half in Tennessee, according to the surveys of voters leaving the polls.
 Some experts cautioned against reading too much into Tuesday's results about Mr. Kerry's Southern appeal, noting that the ability to win the votes of Southern Democrats is very different from the ability to carry Southern states in a general election. That has proved to be much more difficult for the Democrats.
 Merle Black, a political scientist at Emory University and a longtime scholar of Southern politics, said with a laugh, ''The conservatives aren't voting today -- that's the big difference.'' 
 Mr. Black said he believed that Mr. Kerry still faced an uphill battle in the South in a general election matchup. But he added that he considered him competitive in Florida, where the 2000 election was bitterly contested for more than five weeks.
 The surveys of voters in Virginia and Tennessee underscored, once again, the Democratic voters' consuming interest in choosing a candidate who they believe can defeat President Bush. A third of those polled said that quality of electability mattered most to them, and they overwhelmingly gave their votes to Mr. Kerry. 
 At the Julia Green School in an affluent Nashville neighborhood, several voters cited the ability to take on Mr. Bush as paramount. 
 ''Kerry,'' said Linda Brown, a strategic planning consultant, explaining her vote. ''He's got the best chance nationwide. Clark and some of the others are great, but I don't think they can compete the way Kerry can.''
 Ray Wagner, 40, an information security analyst, said, ''I'm voting for Kerry because I think he has the best chance of winning.''
 Mr. Kerry ran well across the board. In Tennessee he carried roughly 4 in 10 voters in every demographic group in the poll, and he did even better in Virginia. He was running particularly strong among voters 65 and older, although he still beat his rivals decisively among younger voters. 
 He also continued to draw important support from veterans. About a quarter of the voters in each state said they had served in the military, and half of them said they had voted for Mr. Kerry. Mr. Kerry carried the votes of weekly churchgoers, union members, low- and high-income voters, workers and the unemployed, the voter surveys showed.
 As was the case in other states, about half the voters in the Tuesday primaries did not make up their minds until sometime in the last week or so, the surveys showed, and more than 4 in 10 of them voted for Mr. Kerry. This is a source of frustration to strategists in rival camps, who argue that the speeded-up primary calendar is creating a self-perpetuating momentum for Mr. Kerry: He wins because he looks like a winner.
 The surveys were taken by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for a pool of the five television networks and The Associated Press.
 As was the case in the earlier Democratic primaries and caucuses, voters appeared to be far more concerned about the economy, jobs and health care than about the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorist attack, based on the surveys.
 Voters here in Tennessee said Tuesday that they had considerable anxiety about the nation's finances, with more than 8 in 10 voters saying the state of the national economy was not so good or poor. Seven in 10 said United States trade policies with other countries had taken jobs away from Tennessee, and one in 10 of the voters reported that they were out of work and looking for a job. About half the voters in all of these groups voted for Mr. Kerry.
 In Virginia, more than 4 in 10 of the voters said they were worried that a member of their household would lose their job at some time in the next year.
 There were several signs of Mr. Edwards's appeal in the polls. Voters looking for someone who is stalwart in his beliefs backed Mr. Edwards, as did voters who said they were looking for a candidate with a positive message.
 In Richmond, Va., several voters interviewed at the polls indicated that they liked Mr. Edwards's message -- including some who were voting for Mr. Kerry.
 Susan Mossem, a part-time special education teacher, said she was backing Mr. Kerry and was impressed by his ''very presidential, very in-charge'' appearance at a recent Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner. She said she was looking forward to a Kerry-Edwards ticket. And she applauded Dr. Dean for getting the Democrats ''off their backs.''

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The primary election day polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters on Tuesday as they left voting stations throughout Virginia and Tennessee.
 The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News.
 The results are based on voters in 35 randomly selected precincts across each state, 1,685 voters in Virginia and 2,489 in Tennessee, interviewed as they were leaving voting stations. In Tennessee, 500 of the interviews were conducted by telephone with self-described absentee voters. 
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus 3 percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who cast ballots in each of these Democratic primaries.
 Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day like the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire may introduce other sources of error into the poll.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Explanatory text yesterday about the method used for exit polls in the Virginia and Tennessee primaries described the one in Tennessee incorrectly. A total of 2,489 voters were interviewed there, 961 of them as they left early-voting locations in 21 counties between Jan. 31 and Feb. 5. There were no telephone interviews.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Edwards thanking supporters last night in Milwaukee. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 John Kerry and his wife, Teresa, arrived last night at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., to celebrate his victories in the Virginia and Tennessee primaries. The successes were his first in the South. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A24)ChartAs of 11:55 p.m. E.S.T.Va.Clark: 9%Dean: 7%Edwards: 27%Kerry: 52%Kucinich: 1%Sharpton: 3%Precincts reporting: 100%Delegates at stake: 82Tenn.Clark: 23%Dean: 4%Edwards: 26%Kerry: 41%Kucinich: 1%Sharpton: 2%Precincts reporting: 98%Delegates at stake: 69(Source by The Associated Press)(pg. A1)Chart: ''EXIT POLLS: Democrats in Two Southern States''TENNESSEEPOLITICAL PHILOSOPHYLiberalTotal: 37%(Supporters of)Kerry: 42Edwards: 33Clark: 33Dean: 43ModerateTotal: 45(Supporters of)Kerry: 45Edwards: 48Clark: 47Dean: 40ConservativeTotal: 17(Supporters of)Kerry: 14Edwards: 19Clark: 20Dean: 17MOST IMPORTANT ISSUEEconomy/jobsTotal: 39(Supporters of)Kerry: 39Edwards: 47Clark: 32Dean: 26Health care/MedicareTotal: 20(Supporters of)Kerry: 21Edwards: 20Clark: 16Dean: 24The war in IraqTotal: 15(Supporters of)Kerry: 17Edwards: 9Clark: 19Dean: 22MOST IMPORTANT CANDIDATE QUALITYCan defeat George W. BushTotal: 25(Supporters of)Kerry: 40Edwards: 18Clark: 16Dean: 8Stands up for what he believesTotal: 20(Supporters of)Kerry: 16Edwards: 14Clark: 24Dean: 54Cares about people like meTotal: 19(Supporters of)Kerry: 13Edwards: 29Clark: 18Dean: 11Has a positive messageTotal: 14(Supporters of)Kerry: 11Edwards: 22Clark: 12Dean: 9VIRGINIAPOLITICAL PHILOSOPHYLiberalTotal: 43(Supporters of)Kerry: 44Edwards: 38Clark: 42Dean: 56ModerateTotal: 42(Supporters of)Kerry: 45Edwards: 41Clark: 42Dean: 29ConservativeTotal: 15(Supporters of)Kerry: 12Edwards: 21Clark: 15Dean: 15MOST IMPORTANT ISSUEEconomy/jobsTotal: 34(Supporters of)Kerry: 32Edwards: 43Clark: 29Dean: 23Health care/MedicareTotal: 20(Supporters of)Kerry: 24Edwards: 18Clark: 10Dean: 22The war in IraqTotal: 18(Supporters of)Kerry: 17Edwards: 11Clark: 30Dean: 27MOST IMPORTANT CANDIDATE QUALITYCan defeat George W. BushTotal: 27(Supporters of)Kerry: 40Edwards: 14Clark: 18Dean: 8Stands up for what he believesTotal: 20(Supporters of)Kerry: 14Edwards: 15Clark: 24Dean: 56Cares about people like meTotal: 18(Supporters of)Kerry: 14Edwards: 26Clark: 16Dean: 11Has a positive messageTotal: 15(Supporters of)Kerry: 12Edwards: 26Clark: 7Dean: 9Based on exit polls of 2,489 voters in Tennessee and 1,685 voters in Virginia. The survey was conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for the National Election Pool. Those who gave other answers or supported other candidates are not shown.Figures add vertically, but not all answer categories are shown.(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Results; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Blacks; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (77%) Robin Toner; John (Sen) Kerry; Wesley K (Gen) (Ret) Clark; John (Sen) Edwards; Howard (Dr) Dean; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill (Gov) Richardson

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%) TENNESSEE, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Virginia; Tennessee; Southern States (US); Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



272 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Sachs to Lay Off 50 in Equities Trading Unit

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
The Goldman Sachs Group laid off 50 traders and sales executives in its equities division yesterday, as it continues to concentrate its resources in more profitable areas.
 The move underscores the growing influence of a cadre of top-level Goldman executives who have risen to prominence because of their performance in the firm's thriving bond and commodities trading division and who have now taken a knife to Goldman's equity unit.
 Chief among them has been Lloyd C. Blankfein, who was named president of the firm late last year, making him the heir apparent to Henry M. Paulson Jr., Goldman's chief executive. 
 Mr. Blankfein, a former bond and commodities trader, has presided over the explosive growth of profits in Goldman's fixed income, currency and commodities division by promoting a trading approach that emphasizes electronic trading.
 The equity division at Goldman has been under pressure since the bubble in technology stocks burst, squeezed by the combination of shrinking commission rates and a cost base that remains high.
 While Mr. Blankfein's star has ascended, the star of Robert K. Steel, who was a co-head of Goldman's equity division throughout the years of stock market boom, went on the decline. 
 Mr. Blankfein became a co-head of the equities division with Mr. Steel in April 2002, and a year later, was awarded a seat on Goldman's board.
 Mr. Steel, a onetime institutional salesman, retired earlier this year.
 Under Mr. Blankfein, the bond and commodities trading that Goldman does for itself and its clients now makes up as much as three-quarters of the firm's overall trading revenue, with equity trading comprising the rest. 
 Three years ago, revenue from Mr. Blankfein's division produced 48 percent of the firm's trading profits.
 Consequently, it has been easier to make the case that the firm's equities division, with its ranks of highly paid stock salesmen and traders, needs to be pared. 
 ''Trying to make money to cover the costs of expensive Goldman people on equity side is harder these days,'' said John Hewitt, a former top executive in the Goldman Sachs electronic trading group. ''I suspect Goldman will be using more technology and proprietary trading to make money.''
 The 50 people who were laid off were concentrated in the firm's offices in New York, where the equity division is based. 
 They included sales traders, members of the support staff and equity sales representatives, charged with servicing the accounts of large institutional investors.
 A Goldman Sachs spokesman said, ''The equities business is a vital part of our franchise and we are actively hiring people for it.'' 
 Analysts said that with the advent of electronic trading and the increased restrictions on research analysts, the role had diminished for the equity sales agent, whose primary duty has been to market the firm's research to institutional investors.
 Such a trend was mirrored 10 years ago in the firm's bond division, when the increased efficiencies gained from technological innovation decreased the influence of the fixed-income salesman.
 Mr. Blankfein, who has worked at Goldman for 22 years, has witnessed these trends and is moving to put his stamp on the firm's equity division by making a number of high-level personnel changes.
 Last September, for example, he appointed Gary D. Cohn, a former colleague from the trading desk at J. Aron, the commodities trading firm that Goldman bought in 1981, to be a co-head of the equity unit with J. Michael Evans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES FORCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Brokers and Brokerage Firms

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (98%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (79%); HENRY PAULSON (58%) Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



273 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29; Op-Chart

LENGTH: 339 words

BYLINE: By ADRIANA LINS de ALBUQUERQUE, MICHAEL O'HANLON AND JELLY ASSOCIATES. 
Adriana Lins de Albuquerque and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, senior research assistant and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.; Jelly Associates is a graphic design firm in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
Three months ago, we compiled a chart for this page on military and economic trends in postwar Iraq. With President Bush's assertion on Sunday that ''a free Iraq will make it easier for other children in our own country to grow up in a safer world,'' it seemed timet to revisit the numbers. There is no question that the last months have been bloody. Insurgent attacks have become more effective, especially through the downing of helicopters and the growing use of suicide bombers. 
 Security is also still a concern for ordinary Iraqis. Our best estimates on murder rates in Baghdad -- a difficult calculation given that many Iraqi families are burying their own dead without notifying the authorities -- indicate some improvement, but they are still far higher than in the most crime-ridden American cities. These murder numbers, it's worth nothing, are compiled using data from the Baghdad morgue, a wide array of news accounts and our conversations with American officials in Washington and Iraq. (Despite repeated requests, the Pentagon has not provided us with any figures of its own.) 
 On the positive side of the ledger, intelligence leads from locals are proving much more dependable. Since the capture of Saddam Hussein, coalition forces have been killing or arresting suspected insurgents at about twice the pace of previous months.
 There is mixed news in terms of rebuilding civil society. Almost all schools, courts and hospitals are open. But electricity production, telephone service and the availability of cooking and heating fuels are no better than they were before the invasion. Unemployment remains around 50 percent even if coalition forces have now helped create some 400,000 jobs. The Iraqi dinar is showing some strength, but a real economic recovery remains a distant prospect.
 Against this backdrop, the coalition faces an enormous challenge as it tries to prepare the transition to Iraqi sovereignty this summer -- and as it works to prevent growing anti-Americanism from fueling further violent resistance.


GRAPHIC: Chart tracks security indicators and economic/quality of life indicators in relation to the United States and its armed forces in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FAMILY (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); CHILDREN (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HELICOPTERS (56%); MURDER (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Jelly Associates

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Adriana Lins De Albuquerque; Michael O'Hanlon

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



274 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plans to Focus On Fuel Ban to End Spread of A-Bombs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush is to announce a new proposal on Wednesday to limit the number of nations allowed to produce nuclear fuel, senior administration officials said Tuesday. He will declare that the global network in nuclear goods set up by Abdul Qadeer Khan, developer of Pakistan's bomb, exposed huge gaps in accords to stop the spread of nuclear weapons technology, they added. 
 In an afternoon speech at the National Defense University, they said, Mr. Bush will call for a re-examination of what one official called the ''basic bargain'' underlying the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty: that those states that promise not to pursue nuclear weapons will receive help in producing nuclear fuel for power generation. 
 Iran admitted last year that it had cheated on that agreement for 18 years, secretly building uranium enrichment facilities, though the country denied that it intended to produce weapons. North Korea abandoned the treaty last year and declared it was making nuclear arms. 
 Dr. Khan's network secretly sold equipment to both countries, and to Libya, American and Pakistani officials have said.
 The administration officials said Mr. Bush would not call for a reopening of the 1970 treaty, which one said would be ''too hard.'' Instead, he will appeal to the Nuclear Suppliers Group, 40 countries that sell most nuclear technology, to refuse to sell equipment to any country that is not already equipped to make nuclear fuel, either by enriching uranium or by reprocessing spent fuel for plutonium.
 But the officials did not describe any new enforcement mechanisms.
 In a briefing on Tuesday evening, one administration official said Iran and North Korea were examples of ''regimes which have cynically exploited loopholes in the existing treaty'' to build up their capacity to produce weapons-grade nuclear fuel. 
 While proliferation experts have long agreed that the treaty is flawed, Mr. Bush's proposal is bound to raise protests from developing nations, which say the United States and, by extension, the other declared nuclear states -- Britain, France, Russia and China -- are trying to extend their rights to produce weapons while denying that status to other states. 
 In addition to those five, Israel, India and Pakistan have nuclear weapons, and North Korea is believed by American intelligence agencies to have at least two and perhaps several more.
 Israel is a particularly difficult case for the United States because it has never declared its nuclear ability and has never signed the nonproliferation treaty. Its Arab neighbors and Pakistan have said that any reopening of nuclear regulation should start with forcing Israel to sign the treaty. 
 In the briefing, the official also said Mr. Bush would discuss for the first time the details of how Dr. Khan's network operated, being careful to praise President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan and to portray Dr. Khan, the former head of Khan Research Laboratories, as a rogue scientist. 
 Another administration official said Mr. Bush would cast the Khan case as a victory for American intelligence operations, describing ''how we uncovered the reach of the network, how we identified the key individuals, how we followed the key transactions, and how we monitored the movement of material and recorded conversation and penetrated operations.'' 
 The director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet, made a similar case last week, and administration officials clearly hope the story of the intelligence surrounding the Khan network will be a counterpoint to criticisms of how Iraq's weapons program was misjudged.
 Mr. Bush is also to identify B. S. A. Tahir, a Sri Lanka-born trader who moved to Dubai as a child, as the ''other major node'' in the Khan network.
 It was Mr. Tahir, who divides his time between Kuala Lumpur and Dubai, who negotiated with a Malaysian company called Scomi to produce parts for high-speed centrifuges, which enrich uranium, Scomi officials have said. It was the interception of one such shipment to Libya in October that allowed American intelligence officials to present Pakistan with evidence about Dr. Khan.
 In recent days, efforts to reach Mr. Tahir in Malaysia have been unsuccessful. He owns 49 percent of a computer company, S.M.B. Computers, in Dubai, according to Dubai government documents. Scomi officials have identified him as one of the men who negotiated the deal under which they produced the parts.
 Mr. Bush's speech will mark the first time Mr. Tahir has been publicly identified by the United States as a major player, though intelligence officials have mentioned, on background, what they say was his central role in arranging the transfer of centrifuge components from Malaysia to Dubai and on to Libya.
 Mr. Bush's proposals appear to be intended to crack down on states like North Korea and Iran without reopening negotiations that could limit the United States' own ability to produce nuclear fuel for weapons and power, or stop allies like Japan from producing such fuel for power plants. China says Japan's program could be diverted to weapons.
 He is expected to implicitly reject, for example, an alternative proposal by the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for an international organization to control the production of all nuclear fuel and how it is used. 
 The Bush adminstration has already, in effect, dismissed that approach as unworkable, in part, experts say, because it would limit Washington's ability to produce fuel for its nuclear arsenal. 
 Mr. Bush's insistence on moving ahead with research on a new class of so-called bunker-busting nuclear weapons has been cited by his opponents -- including many in Europe -- as an example of a double standard in which he seeks to stop other states from building weapons while continuing to improve the American arsenal. 
 The official also said in the briefing that Mr. Bush would propose expanding the Nunn-Lugar program, in which Congress appropriates funds to destroy weapons and retrain former Soviet weapons experts. 
 His plan would extend the program to scientists in other nations, including Iraq. But Mr. Bush will propose no new financing, and no expansion of the program is included in the budget he sent to Congress last week. Democrats say the existing program is underfinanced.
 Mr. Bush will also call for an expansion of the Proliferation Security Initiative, a loose affiliation of countries, organized by the United States, to intercept unconventional weapons. The seizure of the Libyan shipment in October was the biggest single success, though other equipment has been seized on the way to North Korea.
 In the briefing, the administration official said Mr. Bush would propose several changes to the internal operations of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The agency, which has had rocky relations with the Bush administration over Iraq, did not know that Mr. Bush planned to speak on nonproliferation until informed by a reporter on Tuesday. 
 The official said Mr. Bush would call for a new committee within the agency to monitor compliance with ''safeguards'' agreements, which allow inspection where nuclear fuel or weapons work may be conducted. 
 He will also call on the agency's board to bar from it any country under investigation. Iran was a board member throughout a confrontation last year over allowing full inspections of its facilities.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush yesterday at a meeting with economic leaders. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
 Mohamed ElBaradei, of the International Atomic Energy Agency. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (96%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%) Atomic Weapons; Atomic Energy; Atomic Weapons; Atomic Weapons; Arms Control and Limitation and Disarmament; Treaties; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (57%); NUCLEAR SUPPLIERS GROUP (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan; B S A Tahir

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FRANCE (52%) Libya; Pakistan; Iran; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



275 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Adds to Woes Of Newark Arena Project

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Just a day after Newark officials sought to regain momentum in their drive for an arena for the New Jersey Devils, Gov. James E. McGreevey appeared to slam on the brakes Tuesday, saying that he supported keeping the Meadowlands Continental Arena open. 
 Most economic studies indicate that two such arenas in such close proximity to each other and competing for the same nonsporting events, would be doomed.
 Speaking through a spokesman, Governor McGreevey took note of the efforts over the last year by the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority to transform the 25-year-old Meadowlands arena, where the Devils hockey team now plays, from a drain on the state treasury to a moneymaker. Those efforts included attracting a proposal for a $1.4 billion family entertainment, office and retail complex to an adjacent parcel. 
 ''We have worked hard to turn a profit and provide a benefit for taxpayers, so of course it is going to remain open,'' said Micah Rasmussen, the governor's spokesman.
 As for the proposed Newark arena, Mr. Rasmussen said all projects must be evaluated on their own merits. But, he added, as a matter of policy the McGreevey administration would not support any sports venture that used taxpayer dollars. He would not comment on whether the governor viewed Newark's planned source of financing for its arena, lease payments for Newark Liberty International Airport, as taxpayer dollars.
 The governor's comments came barely a day after the city hurriedly unveiled a letter of intent with the New Jersey Devils to help build the arena and occupy it by 2007. The announcement by Mayor Sharpe James was seen by many business and civic leaders as his attempt to reassure local leaders that he was still pursuing the goal of revitalizing the city's downtown. They said it also served as a pointed signal to Governor McGreevey to honor longstanding commitments to support revitalization. And for a short time Tuesday, the announcement seemed to be boosting confidence in the city's chances.
 The mayor's office did not return calls Tuesday seeking a response to the governor's late-afternoon statement.
 Newark had originally envisioned its arena as home to both the Devils and the New Jersey Nets, who also play at Continental Arena. After last month's sale of the Nets to a developer who plans to move the basketball team to Brooklyn, Newark was confronted by an aggressive effort by the head of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, George R. Zoffinger, to keep open the Continental Arena, just 12 miles away in East Rutherford. At the same time, Mr. Zoffinger, a key economic adviser to the governor, loudly disparaged any thought of Newark's building an arena to house one sports team.
 Until the governor weighed in Tuesday, the city's effort to rally its supporters seemed to be working. 
 Arthur Stern, the president of the Cogswell Real Estate Group, who supports revitalization efforts, said the letter of intent was ''a wonderful thing that will psychologically encourage other investors and capital markets'' interested in the city. It signaled the city's commitment, he said, noting the investment of $200 million of its own money into the project.
 ''It is my hope that the governor gets behind this,'' Mr. Stern said before the governor's statement supporting the Meadowlands. ''One of the things that got lost in the whole dialogue over a Newark arena was that it was to be an economic stimulus for the city. Some have tried to make it a debate over whether public money should benefit wealthy sports team owners.''
 And even as the governor's spokesman was suggesting that that indeed was the issue, State Senator Leonard Lance, the Republican Senate leader, echoed that view when asked for his reaction to the Newark arena proposal.
 ''We at the level of state government in Trenton contribute greatly to the city of Newark and we do not favor subsidizing rich owners of sports teams,'' Mr. Lance said. ''We have to know a good deal more about these contractual arrangements.'' 
 By contrast, the Democratic Senate president, Richard Codey, has said he supports the arena, saying the state should not try to block the city from spending its money the way it wants to. 
 The proposed $300 million, 18,000-seat arena is envisioned as the center of nearly $1 billion of commercial and residential development in aging downtown Newark, including the construction of a new headquarters for the city's 56,000-student school system. 
 The current proposal calls for the city to put up $200 million, while the Devils owners would contribute $100 million and get the right to operate and manage the arena. The proposed site, two long blocks from Pennsylvania Station, where PATH, New Jersey Transit and Amtrak trains stop, would also have parking decks to accommodate 3,500 cars.
 The deal depends on many factors, including confirmation through engineering studies that an arena area deep below the surface could be accommodated without added construction costs. One city official close to the negotiations said the Devils wanted to make sure they could get a builder willing to sign a deal with ''a guaranteed maximum price,'' and to do that there had to be confirmation in advance of the engineering complexities.
 Among the other issues to be worked out are how revenue from concessions and other booked events would be split between the city and the team, what annual lease payments the team would pay and whether or not the city's investment would be recouped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SPORTS (75%); BASKETBALL (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); RELOCATIONS (74%); MAYORS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); AIRPORTS (50%) Hockey, Ice; Stadiums and Arenas; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (93%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (57%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: Ronald Smothers; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



276 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Labor Department Now Backs Jobless Pay for Gay Partners

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Reversing itself, the New York State Labor Department says it will support paying unemployment benefits to gays involved in long-term relationships who quit their jobs to follow their partners who obtain work out of state.
 The Labor Department's top lawyer sent a letter on Monday to the state's Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board, telling it to reverse a two-year-old ruling that barred jobless benefits in such cases. 
 Gay advocacy groups applauded the decision, saying it was important that gay partners will be treated like married spouses in receiving jobless benefits in these circumstances. The Labor Department reversed its policy after gay advocacy groups urged Gov. George E. Pataki to have the state reconsider its position. 
 ''This is wonderful news,'' Alan Van Capelle, executive director of Empire State Pride Agenda, an advocacy group for gays, said yesterday. ''The Department of Labor understands that it is love and commitment that makes a family. We thank the governor for weighing in on this important issue.''
 Two years ago, the unemployment insurance board rejected an appeal by Jeanne Newland, who quit her job in Rochester to follow her companion, who had landed a prestigious computer job in Virginia. Citing a state law that said people who voluntarily left their jobs could receive benefits only when there was good cause, the board ruled that following a spouse, but not a domestic partner, could be good cause. 
 The decision will not take effect until the appeals board reverses its previous ruling in Ms. Newland's case. She said she expected to receive about $3,500. 
 Explaining the Labor Department's reversal, Jerome Tracy, the department's top lawyer, wrote in his letter: ''This policy recognizes that there exist in certain long-term committed relationships certain financial, legal and emotional commitments that justify voluntarily separating from employment to follow a marital partner. However, this rationale can apply equally to persons who are in a committed unmarried relationship, so long as there are objective indicia that demonstrate that financial, legal and emotional commitments exist to justify a claimant voluntarily separating from employment to follow an unmarried partner.''
 One of the department's concerns was that reversing its policy would open the door for domestic partners in brief relationships to qualify for jobless benefits in similar circumstances. 
 Stressing that Ms. Newland was in a long, committed relationship, Mr. Tracy noted that she had been with her partner, Natasha Doty, for four and a half years when she first sought jobless benefits two years ago. Mr. Tracy added that the two had twice bought houses together and shared living expenses and bank and money market accounts. Ms. Newland received health benefits through two of Ms. Doty's employers and was the beneficiary of her partner's life insurance policy. In addition, the two had prepared wills leaving their possessions to each other.
 In stating the new policy, Mr. Tracy wrote that unmarried partners may have good cause ''for leaving a job to follow their partners, provided sufficient proof of a long-term committed relationship exists.''
 Yesterday, Ms. Newland said: ''This is a wonderful conclusion to a very long process. This is a victory not just for me, but for many others.''
 James Esseks, litigation director of the lesbian and gay rights project of the American Civil Liberties Union, said, ''This is another situation where the State of New York is very progressive on this issue. It has recognized a broader and more functional definition of family.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanne Newland, right, with her partner, Natasha Doty, in 2003, was denied unemployment benefits by the state. (Photo by Joe Mahoney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (91%); COHABITATION (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); RELOCATIONS (60%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (59%); GOVERNORS (58%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%) Labor; Homosexuality; Decisions and Verdicts; Relocation of Personnel ; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS); Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (NYS)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



277 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 8; WINE TALK

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Americans Prefer It by the Glass 

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
TWO young women sit down at a bar. ''I'll have a cosmopolitan,'' says one. ''And I'll have a glass of chardonnay,'' says her friend. The second woman is doing something peculiarly American: drinking wine as a cocktail. 
 At bars, at parties, at receptions and family gatherings, more and more people are drinking wine the way they used to drink spirits and beer, as a social gesture. It is an American phenomenon because so few of us have ever shared the Old World tradition of wine with meals. Wine by the glass probably represents 10 percent to 12 percent of all table wine sales volume in the United States, said Jon Fredrikson, a California wine industry consultant. 
 There is much to be said for wine by the glass. It represents less alcohol than spirit-based drinks, and it presents the consumer with a wider variety, two or even three different wines at the same meal, if the glasses are small enough. And it can be profitable.
 Even so, not everyone approves, not even in the wine trade. ''It's O.K. at the bar, I guess,'' said Joe Delissio, the wine director at the River Cafe in Brooklyn, ''but I love having a bottle of wine on the table. I'm not sure why, but I guess I like to see people sharing the wine, talking about it, not drinking it because it's the thing to do. It just adds something to the dining experience.''
 Daniel Johnnes, the wine director at Montrachet in New York and for the Myriad Restaurant Group, is not a fan of wine by the glass either. ''We use fairly large glasses,'' he said, ''and when I pour from a bottle, I usually fill about a third of the glass. We offer a little over six ounces when we serve by the glass, or about half a glass of wine.'' 
 ''I've had people say, 'Hey, fill it up; I paid for a full glass,' '' he added. ''That would be almost half a bottle.''
 Mr. Johnnes also wondered about restaurants with extensive lists of wines by the glass. ''What happens to the wine that sits around for a week because no one ordered it?'' he asked. Charles Scicolone has one answer for that. He is the wine director at I Trulli, a popular Italian restaurant in Manhattan that has a separate wine bar with its own menu and a variety of wine programs. I Trulli offers eight wines by the glass in the restaurant and an impressive 50 by the glass in the wine bar.
 ''Most of our wines are sold in the wine bar,'' he said, ''where we specialize in tastings of flights of three wines.'' Mr. Scicolone said a customer can order three wines from the same vintage, one wine from three different vintages, three wines from the same grape or three from the same region. ''We have no problem using up all our wines,'' he said. 
 A standard 75-centiliter wine bottle holds just over 25 ounces. At Montrachet, the Four Seasons and other top restaurants in Manhattan, that usually breaks down to about four, six-ounce glasses of wine per bottle. Four glasses of a wine usually cost a dollar or two more than a bottle of the same wine, to cover the cost of the extra service and the glassware, restaurateurs say. Which means that two people drinking two glasses each with dinner are better off ordering a bottle. 
 At the Four Seasons, prices for wine by the glass start at about $13 and can reach $30 or more. At Gramercy Tavern, prices start at about $6 for a Minervois from the South of France and climb to $20 for Billecart-Salmon Rose Champagne. Gramercy Tavern also offers a three-ounce taste of each of its by-the-glass wines. A taste of the Minervois is $3.25; of the Billecart-Salmon, $10.25.
 Some restaurants offer variations on the theme. Orso in Midtown, which specializes in Italian wines, offers its by-the-glass wines in little quarter-liter pitchers. A quarter of a liter is about the same as eight and a half ounces. Orso allows its patrons to sidestep the glass-versus-bottle quandary by ordering its house wine by the carafe. There are liter, half-liter and quarter-liter carafes, the last apparently the most popular. The price for a liter is usually just under the lowest-priced bottled wine, which makes the liter something of a bargain. The wine is anonymous, but the waiter can usually tell you what it is, and it will be a Rosso di Montalcino or something similar. 
 Lesser restaurants tend to squeeze more wine -- and more profit -- from each bottle of by-the-glass wine. ''We generally go for five five-ounce glasses,'' admitted an East Side bartender who asked not to be identified, adding, ''I've never had any complaints.''
 Most casual, bistro-style restaurants use a cheaper, smaller glass meant to hold just five or six ounces to begin with. The customer gets less wine and cheaper wine but invariably a full, or almost full glass. Customers like the woman at the bar ordering her chardonnay rarely specify a brand or label. Which means the bar or restaurant is free to offer relatively modest stuff. 
 Major wine producers offer wines specifically meant to be sold by the glass. E.&J. Gallo, for example, offers 18-liter casks -- really, bags of wine in boxes -- under the William Wycliff, Burlwood and Copper Ridge labels. Constellation, formerly known as Canandaigua, sells 18-liter casks under their Paul Masson, Almaden and Inglenook labels. Other brands are Pebble Creek, Three Oaks, Cutler Creek and Summerfield. An 18-liter cask, the equivalent of two cases of wine, costs a restaurant about $35. Sold at $6 for a five-ounce glass, casks can be immensely profitable. 
 Even wine poured from traditional bottles can return respectable profits when sold by the glass. The rule of thumb in the trade is that the first glass pays for the bottle. In other words, whatever the customer pays for the glass of wine is roughly what the restaurateur paid for the bottle. When a restaurateur is being particularly thrifty, eking out five glasses from a bottle of very inexpensive wine, the return on the first bottle will probably pay for the case. 
 There are deals for the customer, too. Many restaurants built up dangerously high wine inventories during the economic downturn. Some of them have been working off their stocks by offering exceptional wines, by the glass, at bargain prices. This is usually done quietly, and to profit from it, it helps to know something -- not too much, but something -- about wine.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Daniel Pelavin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); WINE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); BEER & ALE (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); SALES FIGURES (69%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Frank J Prial

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



278 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Criticize Bush Over Job Exports

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Democrats in Congress and on the campaign trail, citing remarks by a top White House economic adviser, accused President Bush on Tuesday of encouraging companies to export jobs overseas.
 ''The Bush administration said that sending American jobs overseas is a good thing for America and good for the economy,'' Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, said in a statement released by his campaign.
 ''They've delivered a double blow to America's workers -- three million jobs destroyed on their watch, and now they want to export more of our jobs overseas. What in the world were they thinking?'' 
 Mr. Kerry and other top Democrats were reacting to remarks on Monday by N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, who had been summarizing his office's annual economic report to the president.
 The new report predicted that the economy would gain as many as 2.6 million jobs this year, which is more optimistic than most private-sector forecasts but barely enough to offset the jobs that have been lost in the last three years.
 Asked about the role of farming out production and services to low-wage countries like China and Mexico, Mr. Mankiw acknowledged that the practice was on the rise but said it would ultimately benefit the United States.
 ''I think outsourcing is a growing phenomenon, but it's something that we should realize is probably a plus for the economy in the long run,'' Mr. Mankiw told reporters on Monday. 
 ''We're very used to goods being produced abroad and being shipped here on ships or planes,'' Mr. Mankiw continued. ''What we are not used to is services being produced abroad and being sent here over the Internet or telephone wires. But does it matter from an economic standpoint whether values of items produced abroad come on planes and ships or over fiber-optic cables? Well, no, the economics is basically the same.''
 Many if not most economists contend that the expansion of free trade, in goods as well as services, ultimately benefits all countries that participate.
 But anger over ''free trade'' has proved to be a potent issue for Democratic presidential candidates, and it has eroded political support for Mr. Bush in major Midwestern industrial states and in Southern states like South Carolina, where textile manufacturers and furniture companies have shed tens of thousands of jobs.
 Mr. Kerry voted in favor of treaties that greatly expanded international trade, including the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico and a market-opening treaty with China.
 In Congress, numerous other Democrats seized on Mr. Mankiw's comments to attack Mr. Bush. 
 ''If this is the administration's position, I think they owe an apology to every worker in America,'' said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader. ''There is absolutely no justification for arguing that we could support jobs going overseas, especially under these circumstances.''
 Claire Buchan, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, did not contradict Mr. Mankiw's remarks but said the administration was committed to ''free and fair trade.''
 ''The argument that we're exporting our good jobs is false,'' Ms. Buchan said Tuesday. ''American workers earn the highest wages in the world. They are the most productive workers in the world and in fact they are becoming more productive.''
 Ms. Buchan said Mr. Bush remained committed to expanding free trade and opening up more markets to American exports, but she added that ''the president's view is that we need to work to assure a level playing field for goods and services.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); OFFSHORING (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); FABRIC MILLS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); FIBER OPTICS (61%) Labor; Election Issues; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; N Gregory Mankiw; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



279 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Underdog or Top Dog? State Fond of Mavericks Gets a Chance to Play a Pivotal Role

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Wisconsin has a date with political destiny next Tuesday. Its multifaceted electorate will either confirm Senator John Kerry as the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee or keep the race going, at least until the Super Tuesday primaries and caucuses on March 2.
 Pollsters and politicians are betting heavily on Mr. Kerry, especially after his sweeping victories in Tennessee and Virginia.
 Wisconsin has been at this juncture before. In 1960, it gave a decisive lift to the candidacy of another senator from Massachusetts, John F. Kennedy, who surprised many by defeating his rival, Hubert H. Humphrey of neighboring Minnesota. Seen as the more liberal candidate in a liberal state, and so well known here that he was often called Wisconsin's third senator, Humphrey was the favorite. But Kennedy, better financed and organized, prevailed. 
 That election was a high point in a long, proud political tradition, but high points have been few and far between in recent years. So Wisconsin has welcomed its return to the national political spotlight in 2004, and Mr. Kerry's opponents are trying to capitalize on what they see as the eagerness of voters here to play a pivotal role.
 Howard Dean, camped out in the state until the balloting next Tuesday, told a college audience in Madison on Monday: ''They expect you to rubber stamp the choice of others, but you don't have to listen to them. Wisconsin, you have the power to keep the debate alive.'' A television commercial echoing that theme went on the air here Tuesday. 
 Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has also described the primary in this state, a patchwork of small cities, farms and one big metropolitan area, centered on Milwaukee, as crucial to his prospects. He has not won a primary or caucus outside his native South.
 Mr. Kerry has had the momentum since his victory in Iowa, the first contest of the year, and it has been enough to propel him into a commanding lead in a year when Democratic voters seem more focused on beating President Bush than on policy differences among their party's hopefuls. The question awaiting an answer as the candidates began arriving in Wisconsin this week was this: Why should this state prove any different?
 ''Our tradition of supporting mavericks,'' answered Linda Honold, the state party chairwoman. ''We're kind of quirky. We like people who stand up for what they believe in despite adversity, which could lead a lot of people to support one of the three underdogs.''
 In a kind of honor roll of mavericks, Ms. Honold mentioned Robert M. LaFollette, the state's Progressive governor, a reformer who wrote the state's pioneering presidential primary law in 1905, as well as former Senator William Proxmire, a famously penny-pinching guardian of the public purse, and Russell D. Feingold, one of the state's two current senators, the co-author with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, of the law limiting campaign contributions.
 ''We haven't had the presidential candidates here for a long time,'' Ms. Honold said. ''People may want to speak with a distinctive voice.''
 But John McAdams, a professor of political science at Marquette University in Milwaukee, expressed skepticism about the idea that Wisconsin is unique. Professor McAdams said he had ''a lot of trouble'' with the idea that it would vote any differently than Iowa or New Hampshire.
 ''Frankly, in my view, this state is a lot less distinctive than people would like to think it is or than it once was,'' he said. ''It used to be much more ethnic than it is, and labor used to be more important than it is, and our politics used to be a lot cleaner. The bottom line this year is this: Unless something unexpected happens, Kerry is likely to sweep the board.''
 Craig Gilbert, Washington bureau chief of The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, agreed, saying that ''this is more about the national dynamics than any local idiosyncracies.''
 Past Wisconsin primaries, held in April until recent years and often influential, have been less consistent than political folklore suggests. Voters here have backed liberals and moderates, underdogs and front-runners.
 Estes Kefauver, an insurgent from Tennessee, won in 1952, only to lose the nomination to Adlai E. Stevenson. President Lyndon B. Johnson withdrew at the 11th hour in 1968 in the face of certain defeat by the liberal, antiwar Eugene J. McCarthy. Jimmy Carter, a Southerner, defeated the liberal Morris K. Udall in 1976 to move close to winning the nomination. Gary Hart, another insurgent, defeated former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, of Minnesota, in 1984.
 A poll taken for The Journal Sentinel, for which 666 likely primary voters were interviewed Wednesday through Saturday of last week, showed Mr. Kerry with a commanding lead. He had 45 percent; Gen. Wesley K. Clark, whose aides said Tuesday night that he would leave the race, had 13 percent; Dr. Dean had 12 percent; Mr. Edwards had 9 percent; others had 3 percent among them; and 17 percent were undecided. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
 Voters here will have more time to make up their minds, or to change them, than they have had in most states in this year's hurried, shallow campaign, with the timetable so compressed that in some states candidates have appeared only once or not at all. Here, they will have a full week, with no other caucuses or primaries competing for time.
 That could produce more emphasis on issues and less on the nebulous notion of ''electability,'' which has transformed the fortunes of Mr. Kerry. Mr. Edwards argued that this would help him. He said before flying here: ''Where we've had time to get this message through -- what my campaign is about, who I am as a candidate -- it works.'' 
 In a state where tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs have been lost, a development many blame free-trade policies for, and where economic anxiety is widespread, Mr. Edwards is running television commercials built around his opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement. But they do not make the point that Mr. Kerry supported it. Mr. Edwards has repeatedly promised not to ''go negative,'' the traditional tactic of catch-up politics, which has often proved very unpopular here.
 But he pledged last weekend that he would ''talk about the things that make me different'' from his rivals, including his views on trade. He has yet to draw such contrasts.
 The Wisconsin primary is open, meaning that Republicans and independents can participate in it as well as Democrats. That could affect the results, too, although there is little evidence that it has done so in past voting. What it will do is preview how well the eventual nominee will do this fall among the swing voters needed to win.
 Mr. Kerry has not campaigned in Wisconsin since June, and is not expected here until Friday, when he will appear with Gov. James E. Doyle at the last of a series of ''Working for Wisconsin'' forums, this one in Madison. Alone among the candidates, he has yet to commit to participation in a 90-minute debate to be televised Sunday, although the sponsors said they expected him to do so.
 Dr. Dean was long seen as the front-runner here, with strength on the many university campuses and a strong organization. His failure to win anywhere has hurt him, but his supporters have been phoning, e-mailing and leafleting with renewed zeal in the last 10 days. He had indicated he would withdraw if he lost here, but on Monday he said he would stay in, as some backers wanted, regardless of the outcome here. Still, many doubt his ability -- and that of the other candidates -- to finance an effective Super Tuesday campaign if Mr. Kerry is not stopped here by someone.
 Mr. Edwards returned here tonight to watch the returns from the Virginia and Tennessee voting at Serb Hall on Milwaukee's South Side, a traditional stop on the Wisconsin campaign trail, along with Usinger's sausage shop and Lambeau Field in Green Bay, the home of the National Football League Packers.
 John Kraus, a veteran Democratic operative here who is directing Mr. Edwards's campaign, compared the contest to the three-way race for the Democratic nomination for governor in 2002, when Mr. Doyle split the vote fairly evenly in Madison and Milwaukee and won by running powerfully in the rest of the state. ''You have to compete and win in the small cities,'' Mr. Kraus said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the role Wisconsin has played in presidential primaries misstated the title held by Walter F. Mondale when he lost to Gary Hart there in 1984. He was the former vice president, not the vice president.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd listened yesterday to Howard Dean in Superior, Wis. Dr. Dean hopes to do well in the Wisconsin primary on Tuesday to keep his presidential campaign viable and to build momentum for Super Tuesday. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); CITIES (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) R W Jr Apple; John (Sen) Kerry; Howard (Dr) Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



280 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 10; FASHION DIARY

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Tall and Willowy, And Nursing Bruises Behind the Scenes

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
Gisele Bundchen likes to play Tarzan. That's why she is all scuffed up and covered with dings. 
 ''Do you have some moisturizer and concealer?'' Ms. Bundchen, the Brazilian model, inquired of a makeup artist backstage before Marc Jacobs's show on Monday night at the New York State Armory on Lexington Avenue. Rolling up the cuff of her jeans, Ms. Bundchen said, ''Look!'' 
 Scattered across the model's million-dollar legs was the scabbed evidence of a recent outing in a dog park in Los Angeles with her mutts Willie, Hazel and Vida. 
 ''I fell from a tree,'' said Ms. Bundchen, 24, who is based in California and who is popular at a kind of epic, ''Star Trek'' level among the model obsessives who troll the Web. Thanks to Ms. Bundchen's contracts with Victoria's Secret, among other companies, her participation in the seasonal runway cycle is anything but an economic necessity.
 ''I never think of myself as being different'' from other girls, Ms. Bundchen said. And while beauty is typically so densely aggregated backstage at a Marc Jacobs show that all the Darias blur into the Caitrionas and Carolinas, Ms. Bundchen's is manifestly of another order. ''These legs are terrible,'' she said on Monday, as a half-dozen photographers clustered around her excitedly waiting for the crucial moment for a shot.
 ''I was swinging from a rope in the dog park, and I went backwards and fell from, like, 10 feet, right on my head,'' Ms. Bundchen said. At that she made a photogenic ''baby's got a boo-boo'' face, and all of the photographers triggered their shutters at once. 
 Deciphering the utterances of the men running global corporate empires can sometimes leave an observer feeling like a cut-rate sibyl, reduced to poking for meaning through the entrails of birds. 
 What was Yves Carcelle, the chief executive of Louis Vuitton, getting at when he remarked yesterday morning that ''The world is getting richer and richer, and more brands are trying to have part of that pie, which is why it's important that Vuitton has executed its marketing strategy perfectly''? 
 Mr. Carcelle was sipping coffee on the main level of the enormous new Louis Vuitton flagship at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street, redesigned by the architect Jun Aoki, decorated by the architect Peter Marino and consecrated to the notion that one way to slake the appetites of global consumers is to bring them another vinyl-coated canvas tote bag adorned with the monograms of a dead Frenchman. 
 Fifteen years ago, when Bernard Arnault took over LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, he said that 75 percent of the brand's consumers in this country were Japanese. Now, Mr. Arnault suggested, Americans account for 90 percent of the company's sales in the United States, although that is not necessarily the impression one would take away from a Saturday afternoon spent in a Vuitton store. ''The reason why we're so successful in the United States is Marc Jacobs,'' Mr. Arnault said. 
 It is Mr. Jacobs who gets kudos for devising best-selling innovations on the logo bags like those by Stephen Sprouse and by the Japanese artist Takashi Murakami. It is also he who gets credited with seeking out Jennifer Lopez to be the face of Vuitton in last year's memorable ad campaign. Yesterday no one was taking responsibility for the decision to end Vuitton's affiliation with Ms. Lopez, for whom getting dumped is becoming a habit. Mr. Carcelle would say only that the company had decided not to renew her contract. ''The brand speaks for itself,'' he said.
 Far, far from the luxury brand superhighway, there wander small bands of possibly delusional people who entered fashion because they felt they had a creative vision to put across. The designers of Arlequin might be among those people. Arlequin, an independent label based in San Francisco that has no manufacturing capacity and isn't sold in any stores, nevertheless accounted well for itself in a lively first show, held yesterday at the Mao space at Atlas. ''The clothes were fantastic,'' said the photographer Ellen von Unwerth. ''You really never can tell.''
 The theme of the presentation, ''Mary Poppins goes vaudeville,'' made sense when one considered that the designers Marcelle Seelig, Alex Lugo and May Nogoy got their start on the West Coast circuit of performance art and neo-burlesque. Ms. Seelig once performed a dance involving nudity and flames, she said demurely. She also toured with a marching band. 
 ''Fashion is tough,'' said Ms. Nogoy, a former contortionist, who explained that Arlequin's lace-and-leather confections have been sold mainly to private customers so far. 
 ''That's all right,'' she added. ''We're really into staying intimate and keeping the art side of it, and not getting too far away from the creativity.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The supermodel Gisele Bundchen, backstage. Ms. Bundchen is sure on her feet, but took a tumble recently while on a rope swing at a park.
Bernard Arnault, the chairman of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, at the new Vuitton store.
 From left, Alex Lugo, Marcelle Seelig and May Nogoy, former performance artists, made a small hit with their independent label, Arlequin. (Photographs by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); COSMETICS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); MARKETING STRATEGY (60%) Apparel; Dogs; Models (Professional)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (56%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%)

PERSON: GISELE BUNDCHEN (94%); MARC JACOBS (72%); BERNARD ARNAULT (63%) Guy Trebay; Gisele Bundchen

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004



281 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; BIDDING FOR DISNEY: THE INVESTORS

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: A Deal's Outlines Suggest Content Is No Longer King

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
It would be the largest media company in America, created after a highly valued company with little involvement in media content sought to buy a media company that was larger, but not nearly as loved by Wall Street.
 That is one way to look at Comcast's offer to buy Disney in an all-stock transaction.
 The combined company, with almost $47 billion in annual revenue, would surpass Time Warner Inc. as the No. 1 media conglomerate. Time Warner's revenue last year was $39.6 billion. 
 Time Warner grew so large because of its own merger, in which it was taken over by America Online in 2001. That deal gave AOL subscribers the majority of the company even though their business contributed a minority of the revenues.
 That deal, of course, went down as one of the worst mergers in history. AOL's stock had been inflated by the Internet bubble, and after the bubble's collapse the share price of the combined AOL Time Warner plunged. Anger over the deal was so intense within the company that AOL executives were eventually driven out of the top jobs and AOL was removed from the company name.
 Comcast is not AOL. But it does have a following on Wall Street. Its shares, after suffering in the bear market, rose sharply last year, as did Disney's. But over a longer period, Comcast has done much better. Before yesterday, when news of the offer sent Comcast shares down and Disney shares up, Comcast Class A shares were trading at more than twice the price they fetched at the end of 1997, while Disney shares were down 27 percent over that same period.
 Both companies reported financial results yesterday, Comcast showed $18.3 billion in annual revenue, while Disney's revenue in calendar 2003 was $28.4 billion, more than 50 percent higher than Comcast's.
 But while Disney does a lot more business, Wall Street values it a lot less. Its total market capitalization when the offer was announced was $48.5 billion, or less than twice annual revenue. By contrast, Comcast was valued at $77 billion, or more than four times revenue. That makes it possible for Comcast to consider taking over the bigger company while leaving its shareholders with a majority stake in a merged enterprise.
 Even better from Comcast's point of view, Disney is a less leveraged company. Comcast's bond rating might rise if it pulls off this deal as an all-stock transaction, as it wants to do.
 One reason Comcast is viewed as attractive these days is its rapidly growing high-speed Internet business, which has been prospering as dial-up lines -- the business that AOL dominated -- have begun to lose market share. High-speed Internet supplied $2.3 billion of revenue for Comcast in 2003, up 52 percent from 2002.
 By contrast, content -- the stuff that media customers actually see -- is a very small part of Comcast now. It offers cable channels like the E! Entertainment and Style networks and the Golf Channel, but total revenue from that segment came to just $885 million.
 Disney is a content giant, with its movie studios as well as ABC Television and ESPN. A few years ago, Wall Street leaned toward the view that content would be king in the new media world, and Disney was a very hot stock.
 But lately investors have been inclined to think that the winners may be the ones that can get at customer dollars first. 
 Many investors hope that cable companies will be able to win not only the Internet wars but also capture a growing share of telephone business. By that theory, those who provide content will have to take what the cable companies are willing to pay for their product.
 Whether or not that forecast works out in the end, it has affected valuations now. And that gives Comcast a valuable currency in its stock as it seeks to pull off a David vs. Goliath takeover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); BONDS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); MARKET SHARE (55%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (93%); COMCAST CORP (86%); AOL INC (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Comcast Corp

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (93%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (86%); CCV (NYSE) (86%); AOL (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



282 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Intel Reports A Research Leap To a Faster Chip

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Intel scientists will announce on Thursday that they have built a prototype of a silicon chip that can switch light on and off like electricity, blurring the line between computing and communications and bringing sweeping changes to the way digital information and entertainment are delivered.
 For the first time, Intel researchers said, they have shown that ultra-high-speed fiber optic equipment can be produced at the equivalent of low-cost personal computer industry prices. Industry executives said the advance could lead to commercial products by the end of the decade.
 As the costs of communicating in cyberspace falls, the researchers said, existing barriers to creating fundamentally new kinds of digital machines capable of far greater performance, and not limited by physical distance, should disappear.
 The advance, described in a paper to be published Thursday in the journal Nature, suggests that Intel, as the world's largest chip maker, is on the verge of developing the technology to move into lucrative new telecommunications markets. 
 ''Before there were two worlds, computing and communications,'' said Alan Huang, a former Bell Labs physicist who founded Terabit, an optical networking company in Menlo Park, Calif. ''Now they will be the same, and we will have powerful computers everywhere.''
 The advance, scientists and industry executives said, should free computer designers to think about the systems they create in new ways, making it possible to conceive of machines that are not situated in a single physical place. It will also make possible a new class of computing applications to transmit high-definition video to homes hundreds or even thousands of times as fast as over today's Internet.
 One potential application, Mr. Huang said, would be an interactive digital television system allowing viewers to watch a sports event from several angles, moving the point-of-view at will while the game is being played. With only a limited number of digital cameras, it might be possible to synthesize a virtual movable ''seat'' anyplace in the stadium. Such a feature now exists in video games, but is far beyond the capacity of today's digital TV systems. 
 Building laser communications into conventional computer chips also points to effective solutions to the so-called ''last mile'' challenge of delivering digital information from the Internet to homes and offices -- creating extremely fast, low-cost computer networks and significantly lowering the barriers to knitting together powerful servers and supercomputers based on multiple processors.
 Intel said the technical advance, in which the researchers use a component made from pure silicon to send data at speeds more than 50 times as fast as the previous record, is the first step toward building low-cost networks that will move data on light waves seamlessly between chips and computers and across large digital communications systems.
 ''This opens up whole new areas for Intel,'' said Mario Paniccia, a 37-year-old Intel physicist who started the previously secret research program to explore the possibility of using standard semiconductor parts to build optical networks. 
 The chip that Intel has built is the prototype of a high-speed transistor-like device to encode data onto a light beam that the company has refined to send more than two billion bits a second of digital information. The device, called an optical modulator, makes it possible to switch a tiny laser beam on and off and direct it into an ultra-thin glass fiber. 
 Although the technical report in Nature focuses on the device, that is only one component of a communications system that Intel says that it will demonstrate at its annual developer conference here next week -- transmitting a movie in high-definition video over a five-mile coil of fiber optic cable. 
 ''If Intel and other semiconductor technology companies can develop silicon optically as successfully as they have electronically, then silicon is certainly set to grow in stature as an optical material,'' Graham Reed, a physicist at the University of Surrey in England, wrote in a commentary on the Intel paper that was also published in the journal. Dr. Reed is the holder of the previous 20-megabit silicon optical switching speed record that Intel shattered. 
 With this breakthrough, Intel researchers said, they have shown that it should be possible to build optical fiber communications systems using their conventional chip-making process without resorting to either the exotic materials or hand-assembly techniques that are now the standard in the fiber optic networking industry.
 The secret of Intel's success has been its ability to drive the price of computing down by relentlessly squeezing more transistors onto each new generation of silicon chips. Now it hopes to transform the world of data networking by placing it on the manufacturing cost curve known as Moore's Law, after its co-founder, Gordon Moore, who correctly predicted that chips would double in capacity roughly every two years while their prices continued to fall. 
 ''In the past you've needed esoteric materials'' that did not fit in anything smaller than a matchbox, said Richard Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a computer industry consulting firm in Seaford, N.Y. ''Now we're going down by a factor of 10,000 in fabrication size. The economics of this have just fallen faster than any communications breakthrough under my watch.''
 Intel executives agreed that the technology will cause communications costs to drop sharply. Paul S. Otellini, the president of Intel, said on Wednesday: ''Think of it either bringing us a tenfold decrease in costs of existing communications, or 10 times the bandwidth for the same cost. It is yet another step in the path to convergence we have been discussing for the past few years.''
 Physicists cautioned that despite the impressive achievement, Intel still has to prove that it can further increase the speed and lower the power requirements before it can move ahead with a commercial product.
 ''I think scaling is something we'll all be interested to see if Intel can deliver,'' said David Miller, director of the Solid State and Photonics Laboratory at Stanford University.
 Intel executives said they were confident that they could advance performance tenfold, making it possible to synchronize the speed for moving data across large-scale communications systems and achieving seamless connections in the next five years. 
 ''The lines running in and out of chips are becoming the bottleneck,'' Dr. Miller said. ''As we start scaling up the information capacity of broadband networks, we run into a basic problem with electrical wiring. In the future, we will be able to use optics at all levels of electronic systems.''
 The roots of the technology came from an unexpected corner of Intel. Dr. Paniccia worked for a number of years in its testing division, where a small group of engineers built a machine that scanned a laser beam over the back surface of a computer chip, much the way a cathode ray tube is scanned back and forth to create a television image.
 The laser image made it possible to watch single transistors to determine if they were switching on and off at the precisely correct times, and also to ''tune'' microprocessors, sharply speeding them up by correcting timing errors.
 He decided that it would be possible to build light switches directly from standard Intel silicon and make them switch as fast as electronic transistors.
 Experts said the Intel researchers appear to have achieved one of the rare performance increases known in the industry as ''powers of 10,'' or exponential change, that has the potential to remake the modern computing world.
 ''There is a big difference between 10 megabits and one gigabit,'' Terabit's Dr. Huang said, noting that the advance should ultimately make it possible to create computers that ''will be everywhere that you are.''
 ''People have been trying for this forever,'' he added. ''You wouldn't believe how many articles I've read saying we might do this some day.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: ''Speeding Things Up''Intel has developed a faster version of a key component in fiber optic data transmission, known as an optical modulator.Fiber optic data transmission1.) An infrared light beam is emitted by a laser.2.) Data to be transmitted is sent to an optical modulator and the light beam is turned on and off to represent the 1's and 0's (binary code) of the data being sent.DATA TO BE TRANSMITTEDSIGNAL IN TRANSMISSION3.) At its destination, a receiver translates the light beam back into digital code.LASEROPTICAL MODULATOR -- Existing optical modulators are made out of exotic materials and are expensive to produce. Intel's modulator is silicon-based, making it cheaper and easier to manufacture. It has also achieved much higher data rates than existing silicon optical modulators.RECEIVERDiagram illustrating fiber optic data transmission.(Source by Intel)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (79%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); COMPUTER GAMES (62%); SPORTS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%) Computers and the Internet; Research; Fiber Optics; Inventions and Patents; Computer Chips; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); BELL LABORATORIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%)

PERSON: John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



283 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2729 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Nuclear Proliferation: How Pakistani Built His Network

BYLINE: This article was reported and written by William J. Broad, David E. Sanger and Raymond Bonner.; Reporting for this article was contributed by David Rohde and Talat Hussain from Pakistan, Craig S. Smith from the Netherlands and Tim Golden from New York.

 BODY:
The break for American intelligence operatives tracking Abdul Qadeer Khan's nuclear network came in the wet August heat in Malaysia, as five giant cargo containers full of specialized centrifuge parts were loaded into one of the nondescript vessels that ply the Straits of Malacca. 
 The C.I.A. had penetrated the factory of Scomi Precision Engineering, where one of the nuclear network's operatives -- known to the workers only as Tinner -- watched over the production of the delicate machinery needed to enrich uranium for nuclear bombs. 
 Spy satellites tracked the shipment as it wended its way to Dubai, where it was relabeled ''used machinery'' and transferred to a German-owned ship, the BBC China. When it headed through the Suez Canal, bound for Libya, the order went out from Washington to have it seized, according to accounts from American officials. 
 That seizure led to the unraveling of a trading network that sent bomb-making designs and equipment to at least three countries -- Iran, North Korea and Libya -- and has laid bare the limits of international controls on nuclear proliferation. 
 Yesterday, President Bush proposed to enhance that system by restricting the production of nuclear fuel to a few nations. [Page A18.] 
 The scope and audacity of the illicit network are still not fully known. Nor is it known whether the Pakistani military or government, which had supported Dr. Khan's research, were complicit in his activities. 
 But what has become clear in recent days is that Dr. Khan, a Pakistani national hero who began his rise 30 years ago by importing nuclear equipment to secretly build his country's atom bomb, gradually transformed himself into the largest and most sophisticated exporter in the nuclear black market. 
 ''It was an astounding transformation when you think about it, something we've never seen before,'' said a senior American official who has reviewed the intelligence. ''First, he exploits a fragmented market and develops a quite advanced nuclear arsenal. Then he throws the switch, reverses the flow and figures out how to sell the whole kit, right down to the bomb designs, to some of the world's worst governments.''
 The story of that transformation emerges from recent interviews on three continents -- from Islamabad, Pakistan's capital, to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; from the streets of Dubai, where many of the deals were cut, to Washington and Vienna, where intelligence agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency struggled to understand and defuse the threat. 
 Taken together, they show how Dr. Khan assembled a far-reaching organization of scientists, engineers and business executives who operated on murky boundaries between the legal and the illegal, sometimes underground but often in plain view, unencumbered by international agreements that prohibit trafficking in nuclear technology. 
 Dr. Khan started in the mid-1980's, according to nuclear proliferation experts, by ordering twice the number of parts the Pakistani nuclear program needed, and then selling the excess to other countries, notably Iran. 
 Later, his network acquired another customer: North Korea, which was desperate for a more surreptitious way to build nuclear weapons after the United States had frozen the North's huge plutonium-production facilities in Yongbyon.
 And in the end he moved on to Libya, his ultimate undoing, selling entire kits, from centrifuges to enrich uranium, to crude weapons designs. Investigators found the weapons blueprints wrapped in bags from an Islamabad dry cleaner.
 In his speech yesterday, Mr. Bush said the network even sold raw uranium to be processed into bomb fuel. He also identified Dr. Khan's deputy -- ''the network's chief financial officer and money-launderer,'' he called him -- as Bukhari Sayed Abu Tahir, a businessman in Dubai, who, investigators say, placed the order for the Libyan equipment. 
 One longtime trading partner of Dr. Khan's was Peter Griffin, a British engineer who said in an interview that he had been a supplier to Pakistan for two decades, in the period when Dr. Khan was building nuclear weapons. 
 ''Anything that could be sent to Pakistan, I sent to Pakistan,'' he said. But he said that all his sales had been approved by British trade authorities. 
 Mr. Griffin is also the partner in a Dubai company that investigators said placed the order for materials that wound up on the ship headed for Libya, although he denies knowing anything about that shipment. 
 For years hints of Dr. Khan's operation circulated widely among intelligence officers and officials in Pakistan, the United States and elsewhere. But Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, confronted Dr. Khan only after the BBC China was seized on its way to Libya and evidence of the network tumbled out. Last week Dr. Khan issued a public confession and then was pardoned by General Musharraf.
 The deference shown Dr. Khan at the end began decades before, when he was working secretly and successfully to make his country a nuclear power. 
 ''Khan had a complete blank check,'' said one aide close to General Musharraf. ''He could do anything. He could go anywhere. He could buy anything at any price.''

Research Roots in Holland
 Dr. Khan's start came with India's first atomic test in 1974, an event that so traumatized Pakistan that developing its own weapon became the country's most pressing goal. ''We will eat grass or leaves, even go hungry, but we will get one of our own,'' said Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, then the prime minister.
 Dr. Khan, a bright young Pakistani metallurgist working in the Netherlands, lent his aid. From his perch at Urenco, a European consortium, he possessed blueprints of the world's best centrifuges -- the hollow metal tubes that spin very fast to enrich natural uranium into bomb fuel. 
 A set of thousands of centrifuges, called a cascade, concentrates the rare U-235 isotope to make a potent fuel.
 ''I saw top-secret technical drawings in his house,'' recalled Frits Veerman, a Dutch colleague who shared an office with Dr. Khan.
 Dr. Khan stole the designs, Dutch investigators found, and he fled back to Pakistan in 1976. He used the blueprints and his knowledge to set up an enrichment project in Kahuta, near Islamabad, that reported directly to the prime minister. He drew heavily on Dutch lists of nearly 100 companies that supplied centrifuge parts and materials.
 ''They literally begged us to buy their equipment,'' Dr. Khan boasted in 2001 in a publication celebrating the 25th anniversary of his Pakistani laboratory. ''My long stay in Europe and intimate knowledge of various countries and their manufacturing firms was an asset.''
 Business executives and merchants, including German, Dutch and French middlemen, flocked to Pakistan to offer price lists for high-technology goods and learn what Pakistan needed. The multilingual Dr. Khan led the acquisition effort. His shopping spree spanned the world.
 ''Africa was important because of the materials needed,'' said a senior Pakistani official involved in the investigation of Dr. Khan. ''Europe was crucial for bringing in high-tech machines and components. Dubai was the place for shipments and for payments.
 ''We were not the first beneficiaries of this network. But the intensity of Pakistan's nuclear acquisition effort did enlarge the market. Everybody knew that there is a buyer out there, loaded with money and hellbent on getting this ultimate weapon.''
 Even in the early days, the trade was no secret. Washington sent Germany dozens of complaints about their leaky export-control system that let ''dual use'' technology leave even though some was clearly intended for Pakistan's nuclear program, said Mark Hibbs, a Germany-based editor of a technical journal, Nucleonics Week. But many of those warnings were ignored, he said.
 Mr. Veerman said Dutch companies continued to work with Dr. Khan after it was clear he was developing centrifuges for a weapon. Dr. Khan even sent scientists to the Netherlands in the late 1970's for centrifuge-related training.
 Eventually the flow of technology reversed, two senior Pakistani military officials involved in the probe of Dr. Khan said. ''These contacts and channels were later used for sending technology out of Pakistan by certain individuals,'' a military official said, ''including Dr. A. Q. Khan.''

From Buyer to Seller
 Dr. Khan had three motives, investigators say. He was eager to defy the West and pierce ''clouds of the so-called secrecy,'' as he once put it. He was equally eager to transfer technology to other Muslim nations, according to a senior Pakistani politician. ''He also said that giving technology to a Muslim country was not a crime,'' the politician said. 
 But another motive appears to have been money. As Dr. Khan's nuclear successes grew, so did his wealth. He acquired homes and properties, including a tourist hotel in Africa.
 A family friend said Dr. Khan spoke of the centrifuge designs he perfected as if the technology belonged to him personally, not to Pakistan. A senior politician said that in meetings with Chaudry Shujat Hussain, leader of a pro-Musharraf political party, Dr. Khan never spoke of selling the technology, only of ''sharing'' it.
 He started slowly. He simply ordered more parts in the black market than he needed for Pakistan. 
 At first, Western intelligence agencies tracking Dr. Khan were perplexed.
 ''In the 1980's, I remember being told by officials that Khan was over-ordering centrifuge parts and they couldn't understand why,'' recalled Simon Henderson, a London-based author who has written extensively about Dr. Khan. It eventually became clear that the extras went to clients outside Pakistan.
 Around 1987, Dr. Khan struck a deal with Iran, which wanted to build 50,000 centrifuges of a type known as P-1, for Pakistan-1, an entry-level model, Western investigators found. If ever completed, a plant that size would let Tehran make fuel for about 30 atom bombs each year.
 As Pakistan's own technology became more sophisticated, Dr. Khan sold old Pakistani centrifuges and parts, Western investigators found, some contaminated with highly enriched uranium. 
 Iran appears to have acquired such second-hand gear. ''They were not happy to discover they overpaid for old wares,'' said one American intelligence official. But for Iran, it was a start.
 A Pakistani military official involved in the investigation of Dr. Khan said foreign requests for technology ''came on paper, in person, through third parties, in meetings with Khan himself.'' 
 The scientist then used the vast logistic system available to him, which included government cargo planes, to ship the components to middlemen, who cloaked the source.
 ''The same network, the same routes, the same people who brought the technology in were also sending it out,'' said the military official. 
 In the final stages of his export career, Dr. Khan simply used his middlemen to order large shipments of parts for foreigners, even if Pakistan had no apparent role in the transaction and appeared to receive no direct benefits, American investigators said.

A Made-to-Order Customer
 When Libya embarked on a two-step effort to become a nuclear-weapons nation, Dr. Khan's network was presented with an opportunity to sell a particularly sophisticated system. The network was moving to a new level of ambition.
 Libya's initial focus was the aging P-1 design, American and European investigators said. But eventually the Libyans sought a more efficient technology, the P-2, made of maraging steel, a superhard alloy. That design has steel rotors that could spin nearly twice as fast as earlier aluminum ones, doubling the rate of enrichment.
 The central figure in the Libyan P-2 effort, American officials said, was Mr. Tahir, a Sri Lankan native who had moved to Dubai as a child. Dr. Khan had attended Mr. Tahir's wedding in 1998, Malaysian officials said. 
 In his speech yesterday, Mr. Bush said Mr. Tahir used a company in Dubai, SMB Computers, ''as a front for the proliferation activities of the A. Q. Khan network.'' Corporate records list him as an owner. 
 Another associate whose name surfaced in the Libyan deal was Mr. Griffin, the British engineer who long procured gear for Dr. Khan, according to investigators in several countries, corporate records and company officials.
 Interviewed by telephone from France, Mr. Griffin, 68, declined to discuss details of his early relationship with Dr. Khan but said he had known him for decades. ''We met ages ago,'' he said.
 Mr. Griffin said that all the items he sent to Pakistan were approved by the British Department of Trade and Industry and that he had done nothing illegal. He said the British authorities had seized his computer in June from his home in France. That had given rise to false ''suspicions that Gulf Technical Industries and myself were doing things for Libya,'' Mr. Griffin said. ''There's no such truth in it.''
 In June 2000, according to investigators and public records, Mr. Griffin set up a trading company in Dubai, Gulf Technical Industries. The following year, it contracted with a Malaysian manufacturing conglomerate to make sophisticated parts. 
 The manufacturer, Scomi Group Berhad, said it signed a contract with Gulf Technical in December 2001 to supply the components. Mr. Griffin and Mr. Tahir had met with company officials months earlier, in February 2001, to discuss the possible deal, said Rohaida Ali Badaruddin, a Scomi spokeswoman. After the contract was signed, Scomi set up Scomi Precision Engineering, hired some 40 workers, bought costly machine tools and began work, she said. 
 Dr. Khan provided the blueprints for the machines and parts, said a close aide to General Musharraf who is familiar with the Pakistani investigation. ''He had given most of the designs,'' the aide said. At one point Dr. Khan suggested that two of his senior aides join the Malaysian enterprise, the aide said. 
 Scomi Precision made its first shipment to Gulf Technical in December 2002 and the last in August 2003. Investigators said the shipments were largely P-2 centrifuge parts.
 Throughout the work at Scomi Precision, the man known as Tinner, an engineer sent from Dubai by Mr. Tahir, was on site overseeing the work, a Scomi official said.
 In a statement, Scomi said the shipments had consisted only of ''14 semifinished components.'' Company officials said they never knew of the intended use of the parts.
 A senior Bush administration official disputed the company's account, saying it would be highly unlikely that someone there did not know what they were producing. American and European weapons experts also said that the shipment headed for Libya contained thousands of centrifuge parts. 
 ''Their goal was far reaching,'' a top European nuclear expert said of the Libyans. ''They had ordered this very large amount.''
 Mr. Griffin acknowledged that he had been to Malaysia and that he and Mr. Tahir had met with Scomi officials. But he said the discussion had to do with exports of tank trucks, a deal he said never materialized. Mr. Griffin said that if Mr. Tahir had continued to meet with Scomi officials, or struck any deals, he had not authorized it.
 But a Scomi official insisted the meeting was to discuss Scomi's contract for finely tooled parts.
 Malaysian officials said Mr. Tahir was under investigation in Malaysia, but was not under arrest. His younger brother, Sayed Ibrahim Bukhari, said in a telephone interview this week that Mr. Tahir does not hold any ownership position in SMB Computers. 
 Mr. Bush said the Malaysian authorities had assured Washington that the Scomi factory was no longer producing centrifuge parts.
 An American expert said the Libyans planned on making at least 10,000 of the machines. Such a complex would make enough highly enriched uranium each year for about 10 nuclear weapons.
 But the advanced centrifuges never reached Libya. They were seized on the BBC China. 
 When investigators went to Libya, they found that Dr. Khan's network had also provided blueprints for a nuclear weapon. For investigators, it was a startling revelation of how audacious and dangerous the black market had become. And it made them recognize that they did not know who else out there was buying and selling.
 Mohamed ElBaradei, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said, ''We haven't really seen the full picture.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The headquarters of the A. Q. Khan Research Laboratories in Kahuta, Pakistan, where Dr. Khan developed Pakistan's nuclear weapons, became the center of a global nuclear trading network, beginning in the 1980's. (Photo by A. Q. Khan Research Laboratories)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A18)Chart: ''The Nuclear Network and Pakistan's Atomic Hero''A founder of Pakistan's nuclear weapons program, Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan (right), is the leading figure behind a global nuclear black market that continued to operate until last fall, American, European and Pakistani officials say. Dr. Khans network sent nuclear weapons technology to Iran, North Korea and Libya.DESIGNSThe NetherlandsDr. Khan stole centrifuge designs from a European consortium for manufacturing nuclear equipment in the 1970's.MIDDLEMENDubai, United Arab EmiratesDr. Khans network made shipments of nuclear hardware through Dubai, investigators say. Additionally, centrifuge parts were shipped here from a factory in Malaysia en route to Libya.MalaysiaA factory was set up here to fulfill an order from one of Dr. Khan's middlemen. Based on Pakistani designs, the factory made centrifuge components that were shipped to Dubai and from there to Libya.NUCLEAR IMPORTSLibyaCentrifuge components made in Malaysia were intercepted en route to Libya last October. Also, warhead designs believed to have been sold to Libya by the network linked to Dr. Khan were recently recovered by American officials.IranDr. Khan's network sent nuclear weapons-related designs, drawings and components to Iran starting in the late 1980's.North KoreaDr. Khan visited North Korea more than a dozen times in the 1990's, investigators say, helping it set up a centrifuge program to make fuel for nuclear arms. (pg. A18)Map of Europe and Asia highlighting above mentioned countries. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); CENTRIFUGES (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (55%) Atomic Weapons; Black Markets; Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) William J Broad; David E Sanger; Raymond Bonner; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); MALAYSIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%) Pakistan; Germany; Islamabad (Pakistan); Pakistan; Iran; North Korea; Libya; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



284 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; SMALL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Only the Giants With Franchises Abroad

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
Cynthia McKay was in business for more than a decade before her food basket company received a dreaded Better Business Bureau complaint in 2003. She assigned the blame, in part, to her sometimes overzealous plan to go global.
 Le Gourmet Gift Basket Inc., which has 510 franchises, including 25 outside the United States, expanded into Hong Kong in 2002. The initial experience was no picnic for Ms. McKay, the chief executive. Last year, a customer ordered a basket to be sent to an American worker who had been transferred to China. So, Ms. McKay had her Hong Kong franchise make up a basket and send it to the homesick expatriate -- but she underestimated the cultural divide. The client had ordered an American-themed basket but the basket delivered contained pickled octopus and rice cakes instead of smoked salmon and potato chips.
 ''The client came back to me, threatened a lawsuit and went to the Better Business Bureau,'' said Ms. McKay, whose company is based in Castle Rock, Colo. ''Even though my contract with the franchisee says they are responsible for their own behavior, good will was involved.'' Ms. McKay mailed another basket overnight at a cost of $160 and sent a letter of apology to the customer. The complaint, the company's only one so far, was subsequently resolved. 
 For all the cultural misunderstandings and challenges ranging from currency fluctuations to language barriers that she has encountered since expanding abroad, Ms. McKay says she has no regrets. After moving first into New Zealand in 1999 and then into Australia, Canada and Hong Kong, her company is projecting $90,000 in international revenue this year. Her company has its sights on South Africa, the Philippines, Thailand and eventually Saudi Arabia, as well as Europe.
 Big franchise players like McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts have long seen the world as a business opportunity, but an increasing number of smaller franchise companies are now sharing this vision. Last year, 56 percent of franchise operators were in markets outside the United States, up from 46 percent in 2000, according to a survey of its 810 members by the International Franchise Association. ''Much of that growth is attributed to the small and mid-sized firms,'' said Marcel Portman, the group's vice president for global development.
 Experts say the main factors driving the trend are the Internet, the improved technology that allows a company to do satellite conferencing and produce low-cost training videos for foreign franchisees, a saturated domestic franchise market, growing international acceptance of franchising and a surge in international franchise shows.
 ''Two years ago we asked, 'Where is our future?' and we realized it was international,'' said Bill Powers, vice president and chief operating officer of Realty Executives International, a residential real estate franchise company based in Phoenix. It has franchises in Thailand, South Africa, Australia, Israel, Canada and Mexico. The company, he said, is close to running out of regions at home.
 Smaller franchise companies should tread warily, however. Mr. Portman recites a catalog of pitfalls involving cultural hurdles, economic uncertainty (including the core question of whether local consumers will pay for the product), foreign-exchange instability, the difficulty of checking the financial backgrounds of potential franchisees and obstacles to securing intellectual property rights in countries with weak trademark laws. ''Or maybe someone already trademarked your name or concept and is waiting for you to come down and pay for it,'' he said. ''This is known as trademark piracy.''
 But large or small, American companies can find it tough to sell their franchise concepts abroad, especially in countries where English is not spoken and in those with unfamiliar laws and customs. In such places, recruiting competent local franchisees is crucial. ''I tell my clients, especially those that have never gone overseas, to make more than one visit if you want to develop a market,'' said William Le Sante, the managing director of franchising consultancy for Le Sante International, a consulting firm in Miami. ''You might get off a plane and say, 'Oh my gosh, this is not our market.' ''
 Mr. Le Sante offered an example of a fast-food company based in the United States that ran into trouble in Latin America by giving its international partner a free hand in the selection of locations, products and a distributor for its outlets. The partner signed leases the operation could not afford, resulting in a big financial loss to the company and damage to its image in its new market.
 Gary Salomon, chief executive of Fastsigns International Inc., a company based in Carrollton, Tex., that makes signs and graphics for businesses, says he made the mistake more than once of expanding abroad without sending in an advance team to investigate conditions. In Colombia, for example, the company ''had problems with security, political stability and a motivated working class that was reasonably well educated.'' The company left Colombia in 1996.
 And while he has remained in other Latin American countries, both Mexico and Argentina have been plagued by currency devaluations and economic turmoil, he said. And Brazil, though it has a large middle class and a strong work ethic, is saddled with ''tremendous inflationary problems and currency stability issues,'' he said.
 Even Europe can throw a curveball at entrepreneurs in the United States. Initially, Fastsigns had difficulty with some British franchisees who balked at making aggressive sales pitches, Mr. Salomon said. ''It's not the personality of a Brit,'' he said. But the company sent an operations team and continues to hold training sessions in Britain to make sure the local owners stay on track. 
 Fastsigns has 65 international franchises and aims to have 120 within three years, with most of the growth coming in Britain, Australia and Canada.
 For all the perils of venturing into unknown territory, there can be pleasant surprises. When Partyland Inc. of Plymouth Meeting, Pa., went into Saudi Arabia in 1998, the company worried that consumers in that conservative Islamic society would not be receptive to its Barbie-theme party goods, said Kevin Pike, the company's assistant vice president franchise services. But the Barbie products sold well, as did whoopee cushions. Balloons are a staple; a Saudi prince recently ordered 4,000 of them at a Partyland store for his daughter's birthday. The company now has two stores in Saudi Arabia and two in Kuwait.
 Partyland, which has 350 units in 20 countries, has had to tweak its format to take account of local circumstances. To beat the exorbitant rents in Singapore, the company created boutique-style shops rather than use the usual warehouse design. In tropical St. Lucia, the company permitted tile floors as well as the standard carpeting. 
 Many companies, including Fastsigns and Partyland, use what they call master developers or master franchisers when they enter a country. These entities, which act as middlemen between the company and the franchisees, are invaluable for their understanding of the local customs, but they do not come cheap.
 Ms. McKay, a former lawyer, decided to do it all on her own, figuring any mistakes she made early on would cost her less than a master developer's fees. And she has learned from those mistakes. A prospective franchisee in the Philippines wanted to include a local meat pastry called siopao in the company's gift baskets. With the memory of the pickled-octopus fiasco in Hong Kong fresh in her mind, Ms. McKay knew the last thing she needed was a newspaper story about food poisoning linked to her company. 
 ''I was trying to explain to them that we don't transport meat or anything perishable,'' she said. ''I could just see it: 'We killed three people with tainted meat.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cynthia McKay's food basket business has established franchises around the world. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Chart: ''Getting It Right''Seven questions to ask before franchising overseas.1. Will local consumers buy the product?2. How tough is the local competition?3. Does the government respect trademark and franchiser rights?4. Can profits be easily repatriated?5. Can needed supplies be purchased locally?6. Is commercial space available and are rents affordable?7. Are local partners financially sound, possessing a basic understanding of franchising?(Source by William Le Sante, managing director of franchising consultancy for Le Sante International, Miami) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (90%); FRANCHISING (90%); FRANCHISEES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TRENDS (75%); BAKED GOODS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); TELECONFERENCING (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (61%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%) Small Business; International Trade and World Market; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: BASKET CO (91%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (65%); REALTY EXECUTIVES INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%) Le Gourmet Gift Basket

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (91%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (65%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (50%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (50%)

PERSON: Cynthia Mckay; Eve Tahmincioglu

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (77%); AUSTRALIA (69%); THAILAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



285 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Wolfe Is Leaving Public Theater

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
George C. Wolfe will step down as producer of the Public Theater next season, he said yesterday. Mr. Wolfe has spent nearly a decade trying to build on the fierce commitment of the theater's founder, Joseph Papp, to new playwrights. 
 With his charismatic presence and creative success, Mr. Wolfe has also established something of a cult of personality at the Public, in the tradition of the legendary Papp. And as the leading black stage director in the country and an openly gay man, he embodied the Public's determination to reach diverse artists and audiences. 
 His is the third high-level cultural post to open in New York in the last two weeks. Robert J. Harth, artistic and executive director of Carnegie Hall, died Jan. 30 at 47, and Joseph Volpe announced his retirement as general manager of the Metropolitan Opera on Monday. 
 Mr. Wolfe, 49, said in an interview that he was seeking a more purely creative life, having had to balance his artistic interests with running the Public's five stages on Lafayette Street, its Joe's Pub cabaret and its summer productions in Central Park. 
 He said he wanted more time to write plays, screenplays and novels. ''I actually missed being a full-time artist and having the chance to write,'' he said. ''I was curious as to what would come out of me.''
 Since he took the job in August 1993, he said, ''the one thing I haven't been able to figure out is how to be a writer and a producer.''
 ''The Public Theater requires one to be very public, and writing requires one to be very private,'' he continued. ''You have to be available to the invisible voices that are swirling around you.''
 Mr. Wolfe informed the Public's board and its staff of his decision yesterday, he said, and plans to leave in the fall. A committee of the board will start a national search for Mr. Wolfe's replacement within the month, said Kenneth B. Lerer, the board chairman.
 ''I'm totally sure we'll be able to attract a world-class person to do this, and it will be a thorough, good search,'' Mr. Lerer said.
 There is no list of successors, he said, and the board plans to hire a search firm. 
 Mr. Wolfe will remain a theater trustee and continue to direct there, Mr. Lerer said. Mr. Wolfe is scheduled to direct the Public's park production of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' in honor of the theater's 50th anniversary in summer 2005. 
 The Public Theater has had several years of financial problems, in part from losing $11 million on two Broadway productions, ''The Wild Party'' and ''On the Town,'' and the economic downturn that followed the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. There has been turmoil over staff changes and board defections.
 But Mr. Wolfe said he was leaving a Public Theater that was on the mend. ''The institution has fully recovered, as much as any institution can in this climate,'' he said.
 The theater's past three seasons have included critical hits like ''Topdog/Underdog,'' directed by Mr. Wolfe and written by Suzan-Lori Parks, whom he discovered and nurtured. The play won the Pulitzer Prize for drama in 2002 and moved to Broadway. ''Elaine Stritch at Liberty,'' a revue Mr. Wolfe directed, moved to Broadway and won a Tony Award. Richard Greenberg's ''Take Me Out'' also won a Tony, and the Tony Kushner musical ''Caroline, or Change,'' which Mr. Wolfe directed, is moving to Broadway May 2.
 The theater, with an operating budget of $12 million, is back on more solid footing financially. As of Aug. 31 the endowment was up to nearly $16.7 million from $14.4 million in 2002, according to the most recent audited statement, released to the board last week. The theater has $5 million in cash available for operations, up from $3.3 million the previous year. The company has no debt, said Mara Manus, the executive director. The theater ended the fiscal year in August with a deficit of $200,000, down from $570,000. ''It's a very healthy picture,'' Mr. Lerer said.
 The board credits Ms. Manus, who came from the Ford Foundation in 2002, with much of the economic rebound. As part of a new strategic plan, Ms. Manus shelved plans for $50 million building renovation, which included a 499-seat theater.
 Mr. Wolfe is known for running the theater with a strong hand, dooming earlier efforts to collaborate with someone of comparable authority on the business side. Ms. Manus's predecessor, Fran Reiter, lasted less than a year. But Mr. Wolfe said he and Ms. Manus had a good relationship. ''We've had to learn each other's language,'' he said. ''But I never felt that there was a power dynamic going on or that I had to protect the fundamental vision of the institution against someone who thought it should be different.''
 Ms. Manus was equally complimentary. ''When we've had to have the hard conversations, we've gone there,'' she said. ''And we've had fun.''
 Mr. Wolfe ''has been wanting to write and to do projects in the commercial arena,'' Mr. Lerer said. ''It's just not possible to do that and also be producer of the Public.'' At the end of February, for example, Mr. Wolfe is going to Los Angeles for a month to direct an HBO version of ''Lackawanna Blues,'' a play by Ruben Santiago-Hudson produced at the Public in 2001.
 Mr. Wolfe's accomplishments include ''The Colored Museum,'' a satire he wrote about black stereotypes, and ''Jelly's Last Jam,'' which he wrote and directed. He directed ''Angels in America,'' Mr. Kushner's drama, and ''Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk,'' created with Savion Glover.
 The job, Mr. Wolfe said, requires someone who feels strongly about bringing mainstream attention to artists in the margins. ''There is a strange kind of parental pride when 'Topdog' ends up on Broadway, or 'Elaine Stritch,' '' he said. 
 ''It takes a profound passion that what you're doing is important,'' he added. ''If anybody has that, they can do the job.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: George C. Wolfe (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Above, ''Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk'' won four Tony Awards, and, below, ''Take Me Out'' received three Tonys. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E5)Chart: ''SUCCESS ON BROADWAY''Dark comedy, political drama, one-woman shows and big musical ensemble pieces: George C. Wolfe has produced each on Broadway while running the Public Theater. Here is a look at some of his theatrical accomplishments:ANGELS IN AMERICA: MILLENNIUM APPROACHESApril 4, 1993-Dec. 4, 1994, at the Walter Kerr Theater
directed by Mr. Wolfe
written by Tony Kushner. Winner of four Tony Awards, including best play and best director of a play
winner of the 1993 Pulitzer Prize for drama.ANGELS IN AMERICA: PERESTROIKANov. 23, 1993-Dec. 4, 1994, at the Walter Kerr
directed by Mr. Wolfe
written by Mr. Kushner. Winner of three Tony Awards, including best play.BRING IN DA NOISE, BRING IN DA FUNKApril 25, 1996-Jan. 10, 1999, at the Ambassador Theater
directed by Mr. Wolfe, lyrics by Reg E. Gaines, Mr. Wolfe and Ann Duquesnay
based on an idea by Mr. Wolfe and Savion Glover. Winner of four Tony Awards, including best choreography (Mr. Glover) and best direction of a musical.ELAINE STRITCH AT LIBERTYFeb. 21-May 27, 2002, at the Neil Simon Theater
directed by Mr. Wolfe, created by John Lahr and Ms. Stritch, performed by Ms. Stritch. Winner of the Tony Award for best theatrical event.TOPDOG/UNDERDOGApril 7-Aug. 11, 2002, at the Ambassador
directed by Mr. Wolfe
written by Suzan-Lori Parks. Winner of 2002 Pulitzer Prize for drama.TAKE ME OUTFeb. 27, 2003-Jan. 4, 2004, at the Walter Kerr Theater
produced by the Public Theater
 written by Richard Greenberg. Winner of three Tony Awards, including best play.(Source by Internet Broadway Database [www.ibdb.com])(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); OPERA (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Theater; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Papp, Joseph, Public Theater/new York Shakespeare Festival

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: George C Wolfe; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



286 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Is Granted Observer Status At the W.T.O.

BYLINE: By FIONA FLECK

DATELINE: GENEVA, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Trade ministers and ambassadors granted Iraq observer status at the World Trade Organization on Wednesday and, in a trade-off to avert a new dispute, gave Iran a glimmer of hope that its membership would be considered in May. 
 Earlier, trade diplomats feared that countries resenting the United States-led occupation of Iraq, many of them developing nations, might block Iraq's request for observer status -- the first step to becoming a member -- as long as Washington and Israel continued to bar Iran's longstanding bid for accession. 
 That standoff did not take place. 
 Iraq's request for observer status was accepted at Wednesday's meeting of the General Council, the W.T.O.'s main decision-making body, and Iran -- whose membership bid is backed by the European Union and many developing countries -- won more vocal support than ever before. Some of the nations hoped that at the next meeting of the W.T.O. in May Iran would be allowed to begin talks to join the trade group.
 ''It's our hope that there is now overwhelming support to Iran's accession,'' Mohammad Reza Alborzi, Iran's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, said after the meeting, adding that he expected a decision at the next General Council gathering May 17 and 18. 
 For Iran to enter the W.T.O., other member nations would have to approve -- or at least not oppose -- its admittance. 
 ''We must wait and see, but I'm cautiously optimistic,'' the ambassador said.
 Washington's envoy to the talks, Peter Allgeier, the deputy United States trade representative, said that Iraq's confirmed observer status and efforts to become a member of the W.T.O. were vital to helping rebuild the Iraqi economy after decades of isolation. 
 But Mr. Allgeier declined to comment on whether Washington would indeed drop its opposition to Iran's joining the organization, telling journalists the matter was still ''under review.''
 The position effectively blocked consideration of Iran's bid for entry. Israel's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, Yaakov Levy, declined to comment.
 Iran first tried to join the W.T.O. in 1996, a year after the trade body was founded. Over the last three years, Washington has blocked Iran's membership, accusing Tehran of supporting Hezbollah militants and building nuclear weapons.
 Some countries in turn accused Washington and Israel of hypocrisy, arguing that it was unreasonable to bar Iran while welcoming Iraq and insisting that W.T.O. membership should not be decided on political grounds, but on business and trade issues. 
 Trade diplomats and ministers meeting at the W.T.O. headquarters in Geneva on Wednesday also appointed leading negotiators to resume stalled global trade talks that ground to an acrimonious halt last September.
 Still, the trade diplomats said that it was unlikely that the talks would be concluded by the Jan. 1, 2005, deadline, given five months of inactivity and approaching elections in the United States in November.
 In a parallel effort to revive the talks, Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, has been on a two-week tour of major cities in Asia, Africa and Europe. 
 In January, Mr. Zoellick sent a letter to other W.T.O. member states urging them to put the failure in the Mexican city of Cancun behind them and come together ''to focus on the basics, especially the core market- access topics of agriculture, goods and services.''
 At issue are the large subsidies paid to farmers in rich developed countries like the European Union and the United States, which poorer, less-developed countries say distort free market forces that would otherwise make their products highly competitive on world markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); HEZBOLLAH (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Fiona Fleck

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (93%); SWITZERLAND (90%); IRAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



287 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Infant Mortality Rate Rises Slightly

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
For the first time in more than 40 years, infant mortality rates in the United States increased in 2002. Experts said the use of new technology and drugs improved the chances of high-risk pregnancies but had yet to keep some premature babies alive much longer than their first month.
 In releasing the death statistics for 2002, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention noted the increase, from 6.8 deaths per 1,000 births in 2001 to 7.0 deaths in 2002. 
 It listed several conditions that have caused high-risk pregnancies and births; fertility treatments that have led to higher rates of multiple births; complications, including low-birth-weight babies; and premature infants. 
 One statistician said that the increase appeared to be an anomaly, a matter of the infant mortality rate reflecting the mounting complications from high-tech and high-risk pregnancies that have become more prevalent in the last 10 to 15 years.
 The statistical breakdown released yesterday also included an increase in life expectancy, from 77.2 years in 2001 to 77.4 years in 2002. That rate has been climbing steadily for decades, and the latest jump accompanied a dip in some of the leading causes of death, including heart disease, stroke and cancer.
 Life expectancy grew for all racial and ethnic groups with the exception of American Indians and non-Hispanic whites. It also rose among both sexes, though the divide between men and women has narrowed, with women now averaging 5.2 years over men.
 ''The life expectancy rate did pretty much what we expected it to do,'' said Ken Kochanek, a statistician with the disease control centers and an author of the report. ''It sounds like a small increase, but it's actually fairly large. This was good news, with the exception of infant mortality.''
 With better prenatal and newborn care, infant mortality rates have gradually -- and at times rapidly -- dwindled over much of the last century. From the late 1960's to the early 1980's, the decline averaged almost 5 percent a year, before slowing down to about 2 or 3 percent in the last two decades.
 Scientists were not expecting 2002 to be any different. But predicting the direction of the trend has become trickier as women have been putting off motherhood until later in life and are now more reliant on assisted-reproduction techniques like in-vitro fertilization, two factors that have resulted in riskier pregnancies.
 In-vitro methods mean a greater likelihood of having multiple babies, which are more likely to be premature or underweight.
 At the same time, better drugs and improved care may have helped women give birth to babies who might not have survived pregnancy in previous years.
 Joyce A. Martin, another disease-control centers statistician and also an author of the new report, pointed to one class of drugs in particular, surfactants, which are now widely used to treat premature babies with respiratory problems.
 But while better drugs are keeping some infants alive longer, they are not always saving them. The latest surge in infant deaths is largely the result of more and more babies dying in the first month of life -- and particularly in the first week, Ms. Martin said.
 ''It's very clear that these appear to be all pregnancy-related, as opposed to later deaths caused by external causes, like sudden infant death syndrome,'' she said. ''It's always a matter of concern when you see an increase in some indicator of public health like this.''
 About four million babies are born in the United States each year. In 2002, 27,977 of them died, up from 27,568 deaths the year before.
 But scientists at the disease centers are cautioning that the jump may be just a blip instead of the beginning of a trend.
 According to early data for 2003, the infant mortality rate is expected to go back down.
 Dr. Dennis P. Andrulis, a research professor at SUNY Downstate, has studied rates of low birth weight across the country and found that they climbed three times as fast in suburbs as they did in cities in the 1990's. The latest figures, Dr. Andrulis said, might be tied to an economic downturn that ''took root in 2000 or 2001 but only manifested itself in 2002.''
 He added, ''As people in the cities with limited access to health care start facing higher rates of unemployment and poverty, they worry more about putting food on the table and less about going to see the doctor.'' 
 That, combined with the birth complications among women taking fertility drugs, might have spurred the rise in premature and underweight babies, and ultimately mortality rates, he said.
 The findings were based on data culled from annual birth records and from 96 percent of state death certificates in 2002. 


GRAPHIC: Graph ''U.S. Infant Mortality'' tracks Deaths per 1,000 live births since 1950. (Source by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & DEATH RATES (94%); INFANT MORTALITY (93%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); CANCER (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (77%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (76%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); STROKES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (65%) Medicine and Health; Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Infertility; Women; Men; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

PERSON: Anahad O'Connor

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



288 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: The Khan Artist

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
I think President Bush has cleared up everything now.
 The U.S. invaded Iraq, which turned out not to have what our pals in Pakistan did have and were giving out willy-nilly to all the bad guys except Iraq, which wouldn't take it.
 Bush officials thought they knew what was going on inside our enemy's country: that Iraq had W.M.D. and might sell them on the black market. But they were wrong. 
 Bush officials thought they knew what was going on inside our friend's country: that Pakistanis were trying to sell W.M.D. on the black market. But they couldn't prove it -- until about the time we were invading Iraq.
 ''The grave and gathering threat'' turned out to be not Saddam's mushroom cloud but the president's mushrooming deficits.
 The president is having just as hard a time finding his National Guard records as Iraqi W.M.D. -- and those pay stubs look as murky as those satellite photos of trucks in Iraq.
 Mr. Bush said yesterday that smaller developing countries must stop developing nuclear fuel, even as the U.S. develops a whole new arsenal of smaller nuclear weapons to use against smaller developing countries that might be thinking about developing nuclear fuel.
 After he weakened the U.N. for telling the truth about Iraq's nonexistent W.M.D., Mr. Bush now calls on the U.N. to be strong going after W.M.D.
 Gen. Pervez Musharraf pardoned the Pakistani hero and nuclear huckster Abdul Qadeer Khan after an embarrassing debacle, praising the scientist's service to his country. Mr. Bush pardoned George Tenet after an embarrassing debacle, praising the spook's service to his country. (So much for Mr. Bush's preachy odes to responsibility and accountability.)
 The president warned yesterday that ''the greatest threat before humanity'' is the possibility of a sudden W.M.D. attack. Not wanting nuclear technology to go to North Korea, Iran or Libya, the White House demanded tighter controls on black-market sales of W.M.D., even while praising its good buddy Pakistan, whose scientists were running a black market like a Sam's Club for nukes, peddling to North Korea, Iran and Libya.
 Mr. Bush likes to present the world in black and white, as good and evil, even as he's made a Faustian deal with General Musharraf, perhaps hoping that one day -- maybe even on an October day -- the cagey general will decide to cough up Osama.
 The president is spending $1.5 billion to persuade more Americans to have happy married lives, but plans to keep gay Americans from having happy married lives.
 Mr. Bush said he wouldn't try to overturn abortion rights. But John Ashcroft is intimidating women who had certain abortions by subpoenaing records in six hospitals in New York, Philadelphia and elsewhere.
 The president set up the intelligence commission (with few intelligence experts) because, he said, the best intelligence is needed to win the war on terror. Yet he doesn't want us to get the panel's crucial report until after he's won the war on Kerry.
 Mr. Bush said he had balked at giving the 9/11 commission the records of his daily briefings from the C.I.A. until faced with a subpoena threat because it might deter the C.I.A. from giving the president ''good, honest information.'' Wasn't it such ''good, honest information'' that caused him to miss 9/11 and mobilize the greatest war machine in history against Saddam's empty cupboard?
 Mr. Bush says he's working hard to create new jobs in America, while his top economist says it's healthy for jobs to be shipped overseas.
 The president told Tim Russert that if you order a country to disarm and it doesn't and you don't act, you lose face. But how does a country that goes to war to disarm a country without arms get back its face?
 Mr. Bush said he was troubled that the Vietnam War was ''a political war,'' because civilian politicians didn't let the generals decide how to fight it. But when Gen. Eric Shinseki presciently told Congress in February 2003 that postwar Iraq would need several hundred thousand U.S. soldiers to keep it secure and supplied, he was swatted down by the Bush administration's civilian politicians.
 Yes, it all makes perfect sense, through the Bush looking glass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (71%); ABORTION (50%) United States Politics and Government; United States International Relations

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



289 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Hints Rate Policy Will Be Steady

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, gave an upbeat outlook for the economy on Wednesday and signaled that the central bank would keep interest rates low for at least the next few months.
 Presenting his semiannual report on monetary policy to a House committee, Mr. Greenspan said that economic growth could reach 5 percent this year, that unemployment would decline slightly and that inflation appeared set to remain very low.
 But he also warned about the rapidly rising federal budget deficit, saying that the prospect of big shortfalls for the foreseeable future could lead to higher interest rates in the near future and bigger fiscal problems as the baby boom generation begins to reach retirement age in the next decade. 
 For investors, Mr. Greenspan offered hints that the Fed was not yet ready to start raising short-term interest rates from their current level of 1 percent.
 Taken together, the Fed chairman's relaxed views about inflation and his caution about lingering risks to the economic recovery suggested that the central bank was not about to start raising interest rates in the next few months.
 That was good news for President Bush, because it increased the likelihood that the Fed would continue to fuel economic growth with cheap money up through the elections in November.
 Financial markets reacted buoyantly. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 1.2 percent and prices for Treasury notes and bonds surged as investors decided that interest rates would remain low for longer than they had expected. That notion also pushed the dollar down sharply because low rates make yields on United States investments less attractive than those in other countries. The dollar hit a four-week low against the euro and declined against many other currencies. 
 Though he noted that monetary policy is ''highly accommodative'' and that interest rates will ''eventually need to rise,'' Mr. Greenspan said he saw no threat from inflation, predicting that it would decline this year to about 1.25 percent from 1.4 percent. He reiterated his concerns about the sluggish pace of job creation and about lingering risks to the current economic expansion.
 ''When the future surprises, history tells us, it often surprises us all,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''We must, as a consequence, remain alert to risks that could threaten the sustainability of the expansion.''
 Mr. Greenspan's testimony came two weeks after the Fed rattled investors by retreating from its previous pledge to keep interest rates low for ''a considerable period.'' Investors interpreted that subtle change in wording as a warning that the Fed might raise rates as early as this summer. But the central bank has been steering for months between its growing confidence about rising economic growth and its continued concern about what Mr. Greenspan calls slack in the economy -- stubbornly high unemployment and a low rate of factory use.
 Mr. Greenspan repeated his concern that ''progress on creating jobs has been limited'' and said the economy should be able to have an unemployment rate well below the current level of 5.6 percent without generating inflation.
 The Fed chairman also played down other developments that have in the past prompted the central bank to worry about the inflation. He said he was not yet concerned about the steep drop in the value of the dollar against other currencies, saying that the drop had caused only mild increases in the prices of imported goods and even less effect on the overall rise in consumer prices.
 He was also sanguine about the rising level of household debt, which has been fueled in part by the lowest interest rates in 46 years. Though household debt has climbed, he said, home equity has increased and low interest rates have kept monthly debt-service requirements at reasonable levels.
 ''The Federal Reserve can be patient in removing its currency policy accommodation,'' Mr. Greenspan said. And even though the Fed jolted financial markets last month by retreating from its pledge to keep interest rates low for ''a considerable period,'' Mr. Greenspan's remarks on Wednesday suggested that rates were not going to rise soon.
 Mr. Greenspan warned about the potential consequences of running big federal budget deficits for the foreseeable future. The Bush administration has predicted that the budget shortfall will hit $521 billion this year and has promised to reduce that number by half within five years.
 To the relief of the administration, though, Mr. Greenspan did not criticize the president's plans to make his tax cuts permanent. That would increase the projected deficit by more than $1 trillion over the next 10 years, even if the government virtually freezes discretionary domestic spending.
 Mr. Greenspan did not criticize Mr. Bush's budget plan. And because neither Republicans nor Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee asked his opinion about making the tax cuts permanent, he did not volunteer one.
 Instead, he repeated his call for Congress to reinstate what are known as pay-go rules that were in force during much of the 1990's and required Congress to offset increases in spending or new tax cuts with either spending cuts elsewhere or tax increases.
 In contrast to many officials in the Bush administration, Mr. Greenspan warned that the projected deficits over the next decade could lead to higher interest rates and could also deepen the nation's indebtedness to the rest of the world.
 ''The imbalances in the federal budgetary situation, unless addressed soon, will pose serious longer-term fiscal difficulties,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''The longer we wait before addressing these imbalances, the more wrenching the fiscal adjustment ultimately will be.''
 Mr. Greenspan warned that the budget deficit was linked to the nation's overall global indebtedness because the United States increasingly depends on foreign investors to finance its borrowing.
 The United States' current account deficit -- the broadest measure of the nation's trade deficit and financial transactions with the rest of the world -- is about $500 billion a year.
 ''To date, the U.S. current-account deficit has been financed with little difficulty,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''Nonetheless, given the already substantial accumulation of dollar-denominated debt, foreign investors, both private and official, may become less willing to absorb ever growing claims on U.S. residents.''
 Many Democrats on the committee, and elsewhere in Congress, accused the Bush administration on Wednesday of encouraging American companies to export jobs overseas through outsourcing.
 Democratic lawmakers denounced remarks on Monday by N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, who said that outsourcing was ultimately good for the American economy even if it was disruptive in the short term.
 Mr. Greenspan defended Mr. Mankiw, saying he essentially agreed that free trade was good for all countries that participate. 
 But he was considerably bleaker than the White House about prospects for job creation this year. Mr. Bush predicted earlier this week that the nation would add 2.6 million jobs by the end of the year. Mr. Greenspan said that kind of job growth could occur only if productivity climbed much more slowly than it has for the last year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, gave an upbeat economic outlook to the House Financial Services Committee yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EURO (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (65%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Labor; Unemployment; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



290 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Upbeat Fed Chairman Hints At Continued Low Rates
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress that growth could reach 5 percent this year, that unemployment would decline and that inflation appeared set to remain low. He signaled that the Fed would keep interest rates low for the next few months. PAGE C1

Splintered Opposition
The Democratic candidates now trailing Senator John Kerry appear to be hurting each other's campaigns more than his. PAGE A34

Fight Over Same-Sex Ruling
The Massachusetts legislature defeated two efforts to override a ruling that favors same-sex marriage, but the battle continues. PAGE A26

Era Ends at Public Theater
George C. Wolfe, below, producer of the Public Theater in the tradition of Joseph Papp, is stepping down next season. THE ARTS, PAGE E1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (68%); MARRIAGE (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



291 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Reassurances Send Shares and Bonds Higher

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed to its highest close in more than two and a half years yesterday after Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, gave a positive outlook for the economy. 
 Bond prices also rose, sending yields lower, but the dollar fell.
 Stocks have not suffered a big reversal since last April, which has led some analysts to worry that the market is a little top-heavy. But the market rally stalled after all three main gauges reached post-March highs and Fed policy makers changed their language on the interest rate outlook near the end of January. 
 In the Fed's report to Congress yesterday, Mr. Greenspan said that the economic outlook for the year included strong growth and very low inflation and that policy makers could be patient in deciding when to begin raising interest rates.
 These comments seemed to ease fears of a sooner-than-expected rate increase that were created by the statement Fed officials released after their meeting on Jan. 28. As a result, stocks and bonds rose yesterday. 
 In addition, the Fed's prediction this year for economic growth of around 5 percent, strong productivity and restraint on interest rates were all positive for stocks, because they can translate to good corporate earnings.
 But the restraint on interest rates did not help the dollar, which has dropped 11.8 percent against major currencies in the last 12 months and, because interest rates in the United States are so low, remains a relatively unattractive investment. 
 The Dow climbed 123.85 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,737.70 yesterday, its best close since June 2001, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.22 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,157.76, its highest close since March 2002. The Nasdaq composite index rose 14.33, or 0.7 percent, to 2,089.66. It is still below its Jan. 26 close, which was the highest since June 2001. Since last year's rally began, the Dow has risen 42.7 percent, the Nasdaq 64.3 percent and the S.&P. 44.6 percent.
 In the bond market, the price on the Treasury's 10-year note rose 21/32, to 101 24/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.03 percent, from 4.11 percent Tuesday. In the foreign exchange market, the dollar fell 0.8 percent, to 1.2809 euros, from 1.2710 Tuesday. 
 In the statement after the Jan. 28 meeting, the Fed dropped language that said interest could be kept low for a ''considerable period.'' 
 It was replaced with ''the committee believes that it can be patient in removing its policy accommodation,'' a reference to raising interest rates. This change seemed to indicate that a rate increase would be coming sooner than had been expected.
 But yesterday, ''Mr. Greenspan fleshed out what patient means,'' said Joseph Liro, an economist and market analyst at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. 
 ''It is not as long as 'considerable period,''' Mr. Liro said, ''but a lot longer than people thought after Jan. 28.'' 
 While Mr. Greenspan was optimistic, he warned that failure to reduce the federal budget deficit, which the Bush administration forecasts at $521 billion this year, could lead to ''an appreciable backup'' in longer-term interest rates ''in the relatively near term.''
 But he said it would not be a significant problem for the Treasury market if foreign central banks began selling the large amount of Treasury securities they now own.
 Many central banks, including those in Japan and South Korea, own billions in Treasury securities. This is because they have sold their home currencies to buy dollars in an effort to keep their currencies from rising against the dollar and hurting their countries' export business.
 David J. Greenlaw, chief United State fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, called this comment a ''stretch.'' Because foreign central banks own more than 25 percent of outstanding Treasuries, he said, ''it would be very hard to find a Treasury trader who would buy into Greenspan's notion that heavy foreign central bank selling would not have a material impact on yields.'' 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.862
High Yield: 3.030
Low Yield: 2.970
Median Yield: 3.000
Total applied for: $46,887,097
Accepted: $17,429,939
Noncompetitive: $217,204
Interest set at: 3
The five-year notes mature February 15, 2009.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BOND MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



292 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Greenspan Weighs In

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan has cleared up any questions about whether a half-trillion-dollar deficit is a danger to the American economy, and whether the huge Bush tax cuts are part of the problem. Testifying before Congress yesterday in that polite, jargon-riddled way of his, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board contradicted the Bush administration and its allies, who have been dismissing the significance of deficits. Mr. Greenspan also complained about ''diminished restraint'' on discretionary spending -- perhaps an indication that he has lost some faith in the conservative credo that cutting revenue is the best way to control spending. 
 Mr. Greenspan's warning that the ''outsized federal demands on national saving'' will appreciably raise long-term interest rates is the stuff of Econ 101 orthodoxy: if the government gobbles up too much credit, it drives up the cost of capital for the rest of us. But apologists for the Bush administration's reckless fiscal policies like to write off such thinking.
 Mr. Greenspan's overall outlook on the economy is quite bullish, but the most striking thing about his testimony was that he did not confine his warnings about federal deficits to the long term. He said they threatened his short-term rosy scenario.
 Listening to Mr. Greenspan testify is more interesting in the context of what we now know about the early Bush administration. According to a recent account by the former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, Mr. Greenspan backed the tax cuts because of a mistaken belief that he and Mr. O'Neill would be powerful enough to convince the White House and Congress that the reductions should be temporary. The notion was to include a trigger mechanism that would revoke the cuts in the event of budgetary conditions like the ones the nation is now facing. We know now, and presumably Mr. Greenspan understands as well, that this is an administration whose commitment to cutting taxes for the wealthy is not subject to any respect for sound financial management.
 Given the relatively meager slice of federal spending that can be substantially cut and the alarmingly meager federal receipts, as a percentage of the economy, there is only one responsible way for Congress to heed Mr. Greenspan's warnings about those spiraling deficits. Instead of debating whether some of the Bush tax cuts should be extended, it's time to consider rolling some of them back. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (54%) Editorials; Taxation

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



293 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-22

Secret Interrogations Log Reveals Iraqi Perspective
A study of the prewar perspective in Iraq describes a government disconnected from reality, where members of Saddam Hussein's inner circle routinely lied to him and each other about Iraq's military abilities. Interrogations of captured members of the Iraqi leadership also revealed flaws in the Pentagon's operations. A1

Suicide bombings over the last two days in Iraq killed more than 100 people and seemed aimed at dissuading a United Nations team from recommending early elections. A16

Nuclear Black Market Plan
President Bush proposed a plan to impede the sale of nuclear equipment on the black market. A18

Israeli Raids in Gaza Strip
Twin Israeli raids in the Gaza Strip ignited some of the fiercest fighting in months, leaving 15 Palestinians dead and about 50 injured. One prominent Palestinian fatality was Hani Abu Skhaila, a senior figure in the terror group Hamas. A3

Hints for Haitian President
The Bush administration, nearly 10 years after the United States restored Haiti's first elected president to power, is hinting openly that it may be time for Jean-Bertrand Aristide to step down. A22

New Anti-Crime Law in France
The National Assembly adopted a sweeping anti-crime law, giving the police and prosecutors new powers to fight organized crime, and introducing American-style plea bargaining for the first time. A11

China Pressed on Taiwan
A senior Pentagon official pressed Chinese officials to consider withdrawing missiles aimed at Taiwan, stressing that the burden of reducing tensions falls heavily on Beijing. A12

NATIONAL A26-35; B12

Justice Department Seeks Abortion Patient Records
The Justice Department is demanding that at least six hospitals in New York City, Philadelphia and elsewhere turn over hundreds of patient medical records on certain abortions performed there. A1

Budget Trim Is Weighed
House Republican leaders, under pressure to rein in spending, said they would consider trimming President Bush's $2.4 trillion budget, including his requests for the military and domestic security. A32

Complaint About Bush Records
A retired officer in the Texas National Guard told a member of the Texas Senate in 1998 that aides to then-Gov. George W. Bush had screened his files in search of information that could prove embarrassing. A33

Plan for Power Violations
The industry group that sets the rules for the North American power grid said it would begin collecting information on rule violations and releasing the names of violators. A26

Prisoner Called bin Laden Driver
A military defense lawyer assigned to defend one of the prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay said his client was a driver for Osama bin Laden but was not guilty of any crime. A32

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Embryos Cloned for Cells
Scientists in South Korea report that they have created human embryos through cloning and extracted embryonic stem cells, the universal cells that hold great promise for medical research. A1

Infant Mortality Rises
Infant mortality rates in the United States increased in 2002 for the first time in 40 years. A30

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Officer Goes Before Grand Jury
The police officer who shot and killed an unarmed 19-year-old man on a Brooklyn housing project rooftop last month told a grand jury that he did not remember raising his weapon and pulling the trigger, according to two people familiar with his testimony. B1

Trial Reveals Terror Inquiry
The trial of a prominent Yemeni sheik is peeling back the secrecy surrounding a wide-ranging investigation of what prosecutors have described as a network with shadowy roots in Brooklyn that raises and transfers money for terrorists. B1

Midlife Crisis for Suburbia
Long Island, where post-World War II suburbia was born, is battling some disturbing social and economic trends, according to an ambitious
15-month study. B1

FASHION B12-13

ARTS E1-12

Jackson Is Nearly Insolvent
Michael Jackson continues to pile up debt, sapping his last credit reserves, several close financial advisers say. He has no money to repay a $70 million loan due on Tuesday, the advisers said. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Comcast Bids for Disney; Takeover Fight Is Expected
The Comcast Corporation surprised the Walt Disney Company with an unsolicited $54.1 billion takeover offer which, if successful, would create the largest media company in the world. The bid is expected to ignite a takeover fight, and could inspire other suitors to emerge. A1

Fed to Keep Rates Low
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, gave an upbeat outlook for the economy and signaled that the central bank would keep interest rates low. He also warned about the rapidly rising federal budget deficit. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

OBITUARIES B11

SPORTS D1-7

EDITORIAL A36-37

Editorials: The mouse besieged; Mr. Greenspan weighs in; Russia's lopsided politics; a police shooting revisited.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E9
TV Listings E11
Crossword E9
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); CLONING (83%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); HAMAS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MEDICAL RECORDS (68%); ABORTION (68%); LAWYERS (67%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (65%); HUMAN CLONING (60%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) IRAQ (98%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (72%); CUBA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



294 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Vodafone Said to Be Preparing a Bid for AT&T Wireless

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
The Vodafone Group, the world's largest cellular telephone operator, is preparing to make an offer worth as much as $35 billion for AT&T Wireless, executives close to Vodafone said last night.
 While Vodafone has not made a final decision on whether to proceed with a bid, its preparations come as the company is near an agreement on how it would unravel its stake in Verizon Wireless should it prove successful in acquiring AT&T Wireless. While Vodafone and Verizon Communications, the largest regional phone company in the United States, have yet to reach a final deal on the joint venture, executives close to the talks said the two sides were near an agreement on a price that Verizon would pay for Vodafone's stake. Vodafone's 45 percent share of Verizon Wireless is estimated to be worth $20 billion to $26 billion. 
 Vodafone's chief executive, Arun Sarin, is planning to present the company's offer for AT&T Wireless to board members in a conference call before the deadline for bids tomorrow. 
 Vodafone's decision to prepare a bid signals that the British company is now betting its American future on AT&T Wireless, reversing a long relationship with Verizon that Vodafone has in the past praised. If Vodafone loses out in the bidding for AT&T Wireless, the company's pact with Verizon would remain. But that would damage Vodafone's credibility with investors since it has argued over the years that Verizon Wireless was the best bet in the American market. 
 Still, the executives cautioned that a final decision to bid had yet to be made, and that the offer could be abandoned. The company could also postpone an offer, they said, and jump into the auction later. 
 As part of the negotiations between Vodafone and Verizon, the two companies are discussing the possibility of making the taxes on the transaction less onerous by swapping Verizon's stake in Omintel, Vodafone's Italian wireless unit. 
 AT&T Wireless, the nation's third- largest mobile phone company, has set a deadline of tomorrow for bids. If Vodafone goes ahead with its plan, there will be at least two bids, with Cingular having said publicly it intends to place an offer.
 Cingular has already made a nonbinding bid of about $30 billion, or $11 a share. Executives close to Cingular suggested that they would make a ''significantly'' higher offer tomorrow. Vodafone is considering making an offer of at least $12 a share, and possibly more than $12.50 a share, executives close to the company said. Shares of AT&T Wireless, which have risen 44 percent this year, closed yesterday at $11.50, up 25 cents. 
 AT&T Wireless's board is preparing to meet Saturday to review the bids. 
 The decision by Vodafone to at least ready a bid comes amid a raging debate within the company over whether to participate in the auction. Investors have registered their displeasure in recent weeks, sending shares of Vodafone lower in trading in London and New York. 
 Vodafone does not have operational control of Verizon Wireless, and analysts have said that Vodafone may want greater control of an asset based in the United States.
 In addition, the networks operated by Vodafone and AT&T Wireless are based on the same underlying technology, setting up possible economies of scale.
 On the other hand, Vodafone's returns could be greatly diluted in the short term if it spends tens of billions of dollars in an acquisition. 
 Phil Cusick, an analyst with Bear Stearns, said Vodafone is evidently banking on the fact that owning a wireless company in the growing United States market will pay dividends in the long run. ''If you look five years out, it's a good decision,'' he said. 
 Cingular Wireless, which is owned jointly by Bell South and SBC, has made a slightly different case to shareholders as to why it ought to acquire AT&T Wireless. Executives close to the auction have said Cingular expects to save $10 billion to $15 billion in the coming years by merging operations with AT&T Wireless.
 The savings would come from merging operations and redundant back-office functions, like billing and marketing.
 Cingular officials have said they are extremely determined to win the auction, suggesting a potential bidding war between it and Vodafone.
 Little could be more welcome to AT&T Wireless, which has been overshadowed by Verizon, and by its own problems. Last year, AT&T Wireless suffered from technical and customer-care problems, including difficulty logging new customers on to its network. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); AUCTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (98%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Vodafone Group Plc; At&t Wireless

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%)

PERSON: ARUN SARIN (73%) Arun Sarin; Andrew Ross Sorkin; Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



295 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; BOLDFACE NAMES

LENGTH: 687 words

BYLINE: By Joyce Wadler

 BODY:

'It's a Living,' A Play in One Act
 Scene I. A passageway between 55th and 56th Streets near City Center. MICHAEL NOURI -- a handsome, graying actor in his 50's who is about to open in the Encores! production of ''Can-Can'' with PATTI LUPONE -- is walking with Reporter. 
 Reporter: So what's your big number?
 Michael: ''I Am in Love.''
 Reporter: That's bigger than ''C'est Magnifique''?
 Michael: (Big voice echoing off the ceiling, singing as he walks) ''I am dejected, I am depressed, yet resurrected and sailing the crest.'' 
 Reporter: Wow! What a voice! And I know you aren't miked.
 Michael: (Even bigger voice, now dancing) ''What's this elation? Mixed with deflation?'' (Michael, waving his hands like AL JOLSON, dances through the revolving doors and onto the sidewalk, belting ''WHAT EXPLANATION? I AM IN LOOOOVE!''
 Scene II. French restaurant, a few minutes later. Michael and Reporter are seated in a corner booth. Michael is having an omelet; Reporter is having a sandwich and fries. Michael is leaning in, very charmingly.
 Reporter: I read you're supposed to be in this musical ''CAMILLE CLAUDEL'' coming to Broadway this spring.
 Michael: That's what I heard when we were in Connecticut. We had all these excited people, important people -- and then this mysterious silence fell on the production. 
 FADE OUT, FADE IN
 Reporter: You seem to play lots of bad guys. There was ''Dirty Dancing.''
 Michael: ''Flashdance.'' I'm not -- what's his name? 
 Reporter: PATRICK SWAYZE.
 Michael: I don't have his wonderful body. I have my own wonderful body. Thank you very much. 
 Reporter: I'm sorry. It's not as bad as the time I confused AMY TAN with MAXINE HONG KINGSTON and said we were sorry her house had burned down. 
 Michael: Can I have a piece of your bacon?
 Reporter: Take it.
 Michael: It goes well with my omelet.
 Reporter: So ''Flashdance,'' not ''Dirty Dancing.'' I have a feeling that if you were to drop dead, your obit would lead with that.
 Michael: I don't have to drop dead for that to happen. It's the way it is. ''Flashdance'' is Michael Nouri. (His cellphone rings.) This might be a job. This might be ''Camille Claudel.''
 FADE OUT, FADE IN
 Reporter: What were you saying?
 Michael: I'm identified with ''Dirty Dancing.''
 Reporter: Why is that?
 Michael: Because I wasn't in ''Dirty Dancing.'' You're not paying attention.
 Reporter (laughing): Once I was talking to GEORGE BURNS, he was in his late 80's, and I asked him, automatically, about what his sister did. He said, ''She's 86. What do you think, she dances a jig?''
 Michael: One of my favorite lines is George Burns when he was asked, ''How's your sex life?'' And he said, ''It's like shooting pool with a rope.''
 Reporter: How's your love life?
 Michael: My love life? It's fine. It's quiet. 
 Reporter: Because I read you broke up with somebody you'd had a long-term thing with.
 Michael: That was over a year ago. ROMA DOWNEY. She was on ''Touched by an Angel.''
 Reporter: And now?
 Michael: Work. I've done ''The Practice,'' ''The West Wing.''
 Reporter: Wasn't there something else with a ''The''?
 Michael: ''The Lyon's Den,'' ROB LOWE's new show. (Michael eats Reporter's fries.)
 Reporter: There's really nothing going on with your love life?
 Michael: Spit it out, baby. Spit it out. This is as close as we get to tabloid gossip, the G word. (Beat) Ask me the most provocative question you can and I'll dodge it.
 Reporter: It's 20 years after ''Dirty Dancing'' and you're still known as that guy from that movie? Why is that? What kind of an actor do you call yourself?
 Michael: (Laughing) 'Cause it was ''Flashdance,'' not ''Dirty Dancing.'' (Beat) I'm going to kill you. (Beat) The answer is this. The impact (Beat) of that movie was so huge. It was one of the biggest hits of the 1980's. And when you're in a movie that's that big -- 
 FADE OUT, FADE IN
 Michael: I knew I had a passion for music when I was 9, 10 years old.
 FADE OUT, FADE IN
 Michael: Just before this, I was playing Senator Turner on ''The West Wing.''
 Reporter: Is that a recurring role?
 Michael: I hope so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DANCE (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); DEFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Theater; Encores! Great American Musicals in Concert (Series)

PERSON: PATRICK SWAYZE (58%) Michael Nouri; Joyce Wadler; Patti Lupone

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



296 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Hopes for Tax Relief From 2 Sources

BYLINE: By DEBRA WEST

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Last year, Westchester County property taxes increased by 14.8 percent. This year they will increase by 18.8 percent. And next year, well, there is always wishful thinking.
 ''If you look at the big picture, the economy is picking up, and that could cause a big increase in sales tax revenue,'' said Michael B. Kaplowitz, chairman of the County Legislature's budget committee. ''And we are hoping to get structural relief from Albany on unfunded mandates, like Medicaid and pensions.'' 
 On Tuesday, the Legislature amended the $1.4 billion budget for 2004 by raising the county's share of property taxes by 18.8 percent and increasing mortgage taxes, automobile taxes and sales taxes in some areas, all to close a $28.5 million budget gap. Unlike last year's budget, this year's avoided layoffs and cuts in programs and services. 
 ''If we closed all county parks, and eliminated our bus transportation system, and closed the departments of public safety and emergency services, we would still have to raise the county property tax because of the ever-increasing costs to our residents of state mandated programs,'' County Executive Andrew J. Spano said in a statement released on Wednesday.
 Counties across the state are struggling with tremendous increases in the costs of state-mandated programs like Medicaid, health benefits and pensions, said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute. But rather than just increasing taxes, they must start looking at ways to cut things they can control, he said.
 ''They may be back in the same boat next year,'' Mr. McMahon said. ''They have to look at the way they conduct business: will they ask for givebacks in collective bargaining agreements, do they get competitive bids for things like bus contracts?''
 Kelly Jones of Hartsdale, the president of a citizens' group, the Coalition Against Unfair Taxes and Spending, said the county should have considered other measures. ''We do not have a revenue problem in Westchester County,'' he said. ''We have a spending problem.'' 
 Mr. Jones, a senior vice president of the Empire State Development Corporation, said there should be a full audit of all county departments to find excessive spending.
 George Oros, a Republican legislator, voted against the tax increases on Tuesday. He said there were plenty of county government programs and services that could be cut.
 ''You have to seriously question why a county that just socked taxpayers for a 19 percent increase is running an amusement park at a loss of $3 million a year,'' Mr. Oros said, referring to Playland in Rye. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); MEDICAID (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (62%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

PERSON: Andrew J (County Exec) Spano; Debra West

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



297 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: He Braked for Cupid

BYLINE: By HUGO LINDGREN

DATELINE: LANGLEY, Wash. 

 BODY:
ONE morning last fall, Steve Badanes woke up at his fiancee's house here, on Whidbey Island, and started his chores. He had already finished building a trellis out of sections of television transmission towers, and he had put a new floor in an Airstream trailer they use as guest quarters. But there were still tables to be built, and lights to be strung up. And it all had to be done before 3 p.m., because that's when he and Linda Beaumont were going to be married.
 Mr. Badanes removed his tool belt with a half hour to spare, he said. His hair was still damp from the shower when the two of them slipped into the woods to exchange vows before a judge. Then they joined their 200 guests. That wedding was a triumph, not least because he is 60 and she is 53 and it was the first marriage for both. More significantly, they were getting married at the end of a process that can tear couples apart -- the designing and building of a house. The immaculate metal-clad structure is the happy ending to a long and rambling love story. 
 For more than two decades, Mr. Badanes lived as a nomad. Half designer, half construction worker, he crisscrossed the country as part of Jersey Devil, a small group of architects who embraced the concept of design-build in the late 1960's and never let go. Living on job sites, sleeping in trailers and tents, they built a dozen houses, and became cult figures in the architecture world, known for their unbowed countercultural idealism and funky, ecologically oriented structures.
 Michael Sorkin, the New York architect and critic, said: ''They kept the faith. They showed that practicing architecture is not just a matter of the mind, but something you do with your own hands.'' The Hill House, an earth-covered building sculptured into the top of a hill near San Francisco, earned them their first major attention. It was completed in 1979, after two hard years of construction. The Hoagie House, which they finished in 1987 in northern Virginia, took three years. In the early 1990's, Jersey Devil built an elegant stairway at Seaside, the architectural-trophy town in Florida.
 ''Their work has a wonderful sense of site, lapidary craftsmanship and just enough whimsy,'' said Mr. Sorkin, who wrote the introduction to ''Devil's Workshop: 25 Years of Jersey Devil Architecture'' (Princeton Architectural Press, 1997).
 Mr. Badanes was not all about work. ''His stated position was that, as the single guy, his responsibility was to have the fun for all of us,'' said John Ringel, a partner in Jersey Devil. ''Getting married was never something we saw as a possibility for him.''
 After Seaside, though, Mr. Badanes, who was about to turn 50, began taking an active interest in health insurance -- he had never had any. So he was on his way to a teaching job in San Diego when his truck filled with smoke. He jackknifed his trailer and the whole thing went up in flames. To make matters worse, the job fell through. ''I had to rethink my place on the planet,'' Mr. Badanes said. ''Since I no longer had one.'' 
 Hundreds of miles away, Ms. Beaumont was also rethinking her place on the planet. She was a Seattle painter who also supported herself by doing ornate, bejeweled tile work. If you ever find yourself in the singer Belinda Carlisle's kitchen, look for the broken plates built into the floor, as if there had just been a fight. 
 After spending most of her life in Seattle, Ms. Beaumont felt squeezed by the city's booming economy. ''In the 1980's, I'd had these incredible lofts,'' Ms. Beaumont said. ''By the 1990's, I was in a shoe box.'' 
 With modest savings, she was considering buying a slender five-acre lot on Whidbey Island, 30 miles north of Seattle, where her mother had a cottage. The cedar-filled island had qualities Seattle once had in abundance. It was quiet, affordable and unpretentious. But she had concerns about packing up permanently for the country. 
 In 1994, Mr. Badanes, fleeing the San Diego fiasco, had moved to Seattle to teach design-build at the University of Washington. He wanted to share the Jersey Devil philosophy. Students, he believed, should go out and build in public spaces. 
 One of Mr. Badanes's friends thought he and Ms. Beaumont should meet. It took months, but eventually they went on a date, and hit it off enough that skinny-dipping in Lake Washington seemed like a good idea. Which it was, until a Seattle police officer arrived with his flashlight and requested that they put their clothes on. 
 On a subsequent outing, Mr. Badanes took Ms. Beaumont to see the Fremont Troll, a Seattle project he helped build in 1990. It was a comic public-art piece, a giant concrete beast crushing a Volkswagen Beetle. 
 They started camping on the Whidbey land Ms. Beaumont had bought for a little over $70,000 and dreaming of what they could build. ''Part of me wanted it to stay untouched,'' Ms. Beaumont said. ''At the time, that was all I could afford anyway.'' 
 They cleared brush; they planted a garden; they put in a septic tank. By 1997, Mr. Badanes was drawing up plans for a studio near the road for Ms. Beaumont.
 Even stripped to the bone though, the studio was going to be expensive. As long as she was spending money she did not have, she might as well spend more money she did not have and build a genuine house, something at the top of the property. Her mother guaranteed a bank loan, for what Ms. Beaumont hoped would be a $130,000 house, and the deal was done. 
 ''Except for one thing,'' Ms. Beaumont said. ''I fired Steve.'' Well, not exactly fired, because that would mean that she had hired him. ''I knew what I wanted, so I didn't need him to design it for me,'' she said. 
 Ms. Beaumont was, Mr. Badanes said, ''what you might call a difficult client.'' He counseled a southern exposure for ''maximum solar heat gain,'' he said. She preferred something slightly off the north-south axis. He relented. ''You get to my age, it gets pretty easy to give in,'' Mr. Badanes said. ''I'm not sure I was always like that.'' 
 A local professional was hired to draft plans. Mr. Badanes recruited a former student from the University of Washington to build it, and Ms. Beaumont was general contractor.
 Construction began in 1999, and Ms. Beaumont moved in about two years later, although the final cost ran close to $200,000, Ms. Beaumont moved in about two years later. Mr. Badanes still keeps a small house of his own in the city. 
 The 2,200-square-foot house is essentially a box on top of a box, with wings. The downstairs serves as kitchen and living area, flanked by a covered patio on one side and a carport on the other. The second level is Ms. Beaumont's art studio, which has ample windows looking into the trees. There is a small bedroom in one wing and an office in the other; both have porches. 
 Defying conventional wisdom, Ms. Beaumont put the bathroom on the first floor, downstairs from the bedroom. ''When I lived in lofts, the toilet wasn't even in the apartment, it was down the hall,'' she said.
 The entire structure is covered in Zincalume, a recycled steel that sells for about a dollar a square foot, and Mr. Badanes said, is ''made mostly from ground-up cars.'' This not only gives the house an elegant, silvery glow, it is a cinch to clean. Before the wedding, the couple paid $100 to have the whole house pressure-washed. 
 The house does bear the Steve Badanes influence. ''On my own, I would have gone for something wilder,'' she said.
 Mr. Badanes, who occasionally (and lovingly) refers to his wife as ''a space pig,'' argued that the huge upstairs studio would be hard to heat. To keep costs low and options open, he also advised postponing expensive features like the skylight and the tall windows. She dug her heels in. ''Linda had a precise vision,'' he said, ''and she was impatient about making it be that way.'' 
 The metal cladding matches the aluminum shells of the two Airstream trailers Mr. Badanes keeps on the property. (He also has a 1950's Holiday House trailer parked there.) Mr. Badanes, who loves his trailers the way a former ballplayer treasures his old mitt, wanted to fit them under the overhangs on each side. ''Like a hen with her two eggs,'' he said. ''We could hook up the plumbing and everything.'' 
 But Ms. Beaumont would not go for it. She did like the idea of the trailers as guest quarters -- at a distance from the house. 
 Mr. Badanes has left lots of unadorned cement board inside the house for Ms. Beaumont to fill in with tiles -- if her art career ever slows down. In recent years, she has become a sought-after public artist. For the Safeco Field ball park, she collaborated on a huge chandelier of baseball bats, and she is just now completing an elaborate glass installation at the Seattle-Tacoma Airport. 
 Mr. Badanes has finished playgrounds and community gardens with his students. And any money he makes for speaking on the lecture circuit, he said, is going toward improvements on the house. He wants their collaborative process to go on indefinitely.
 ''We've able to confront each other's phobias and weaknesses, and that is the best thing you can do for a relationship,'' he said. ''Plus we get a really nice house out of it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOVE STORY -- Steve Badanes lived as a nomad, moving job to job, for more than 20 years before meeting Linda Beaumont, with him above. They wed outside the house she built with his help, above left. (Photographs by Robbie McLaran for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
HONEYMOON HOUSE -- The 2,200-square-foot house was a collaboration of sorts between the designer Steve Badanes and the artist Linda Beaumont. Ms. Beaumont designed the house, which is clad in steel recycled from cars, and Mr. Badanes contributed features like the trellis, above right, made from the tops of transmission towers. (Photos by above, above right and bottom far right, Robbie McLaran for The New York Times)
WEDDING DAY -- Steve Badanes and Linda Beaumont, with Yoko, left, and Hana Federenko-Morishita. Above, the Rolling Blackouts play. Right, a feast. (Photo by John Badanes)
(Photo by Mary Beaumont)
(Photo by Linda Beaumont)
PROJECTS -- A stairway for Seaside, Fla., by the Jersey Devil collective, left. Above, the Fremont Troll, in Seattle, which Mr. Badanes helped make. Right, Ms. Beaumont's shower tile work. (Photo by Bill Sanders)
 (Photo by Nance Carter)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); JUDGES (54%) Housing

PERSON: Hugo Lindgren; Steve Badanes; Linda Beaumont

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%) Whidbey Island (Pugent Sound, Wash)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



298 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Investigators Ask if Stock Is Linked to Rowland Friend

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Federal investigators have requested information about a penny stock called Edulink Inc. that Gov. John G. Rowland reported owning in 2000, on the theory that his friend Robert V. Matthews may be linked to the company, documents show.
 But company officials said in interviews that they had no idea what that link might be.
 Federal investigators have taken a keen interest in Mr. Matthews's relationship with Mr. Rowland as part of a sweeping investigation into political corruption at the state level. The two men developed a friendship long before Mr. Rowland became governor, and though some of Mr. Matthews's good fortune predates Mr. Rowland's ascent to the state's top job in 1995, he has benefited from millions of dollars in state aid to his companies and a lucrative lease from the state on one of his buildings during the Rowland years. 
 Two weeks ago, the Connecticut Development Authority, a quasi-public agency that fosters economic development, was ordered to produce all records concerning Mr. Matthews and companies associated with him. Earlier this week, the state's auditor's office disclosed that it, too, had been asked for records concerning ''contracts, grants, loans or financial transactions'' between state entities and Mr. Matthews and his entities, The Hartford Courant reported.
 What has not been reported, however, is that one of the companies on the list supplied to the state auditors by the Federal Bureau of Investigation is Edulink, a company based in Beverly Hills, Calif., that has no visible ties to Connecticut. In the letter that accompanies the list, an agent of the F.B.I. notes that these are all entities in which Mr. Matthews ''may have a financial interest.''
 Neither Mr. Matthews nor his lawyer returned phone calls seeking comment yesterday. Edulink describes itself in public filings as a ''development stage company engaged in the design and development of a seamless integrated Internet educational service called the Smart Schoolhouse system for schools and homes.''
 It became a publicly traded company in 1999, adopting the ticker symbol MYIQ, and its best year was 2000, the same year Mr. Rowland reporting owning it in the reports he makes to the State Ethics Commission.
 The stock hit a high in early 2000 of $1 a share, but ended the year at about 5 cents. It currently trades at fractions of a penny.
 Mr. Rowland is obliged to report any shareholdings worth at least $5,000, but he is not required to disclose how much money he made on the transactions or when he bought or sold the stock, assuming it was not a gift. Ross Garber, the governor's in-house counsel, said he would have no comment on the governor's investment in Edulink.
 Edulink officials say they have never tapped the Connecticut market, and Tom Murphy, a spokesman for the state's Department of Education, said he had never heard of the company or its products. ''We don't have a relationship with Edulink that we know of,'' he said.
 Edulink officials said that if the governor had invested in their company, he might have lost money, as did many shareholders. ''It hasn't traded over .08 cents since I've been involved with the company,'' said Charles Guy, its chief executive. He has been involved since November 2001, and he called the stock ''very, very speculative.''
 Michael Rosenfeld, a co-founder of the company, said he had no idea how the governor came to invest in his stock. ''I doubt this guy had any concept of what he was buying or what the company was doing,'' he said of the governor.
 As for Mr. Matthews, Mr. Rosenfeld said he had never heard of the man, but said, ''I promise you if this is a very wealthy guy from Connecticut,'' who had some interest in Edulink, ''I would know. In fact, I should probably call him.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (79%); CORRUPTION (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); SECURITIES TRADING (61%); LAWYERS (50%) Ethics; Governors (US)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: Robert V Matthews; John G (Gov) Rowland; Alison Leigh Cowan

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



299 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: In Middle Age, L.I. Suburbs Show Wear

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Long Island, where post-World War II suburbia was born, is in a midlife crisis and battling some disturbing social and economic trends that provide a window into issues that suburbs around the nation may face, according to a 15-month study sponsored by a nonprofit group.
 Average pay from Long Island employers has dropped in recent years, little land is left to develop, taxes are high, cars are multiplying faster than people, commuting times are longer and people are being priced out of the housing market, the report said. And an increasing minority population is coinciding with persistent segregation.
 Perhaps most striking is that a region long synonymous with families and children is losing part of its younger generation, and the median age of residents is steadily rising. In the 1990's, the number of people age 18 to 34 shrank by 143,184, or 20 percent, in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, the census showed. 
 That age group also declined nationwide, reflecting the ''baby bust'' that followed the baby boom. But the island's drop was five times the national decrease of 4 percent.
 The report, titled Long Island Index 2004: Coming Together for Long Island's Future, analyzes the region's strengths and problems and sets goals for improvement. The Rauch Foundation of Garden City sponsored the study in a joint project with an array of government, civic, business and labor groups. Similar efforts are under way in Boston, Chicago and Silicon Valley.
 Long Island, where Levittown sprang from potato fields as an instant community, is now ''the nation's first mature suburb,'' the report said. ''Long Island is a case study in how do we reinvent the suburbs,'' said the study's director, Carrie Meek Gallagher. ''Anecdotally, similar dynamics are happening in housing, the economy and transportation around Boston. It's almost post-suburbia. What do we do now?'' 
 The foundation's president, Dr. Nancy Rauch Douzinas, said, ''We're hoping this will be a real tool for action.'' County Executives Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau and Steve Levy of Suffolk are to speak at the report's presentation today.
 With 2.8 million people -- more than the populations in 19 states -- 1 million jobs and a $112 billion annual economy, Long Island remains a premier suburb. Its assets include highly rated schools, health care, parks, beaches and shopping and an educated work force, high employment, low crime and access to New York City.
 But the report found ''a growing disparity by income, race and ethnicity that is clear in current housing, educational and health indicators.''
 The study called the ''brain drain'' on the island alarming. ''The region is exporting its most valuable product -- its talented young people,'' the report said.
 A survey of young adults found that 53 percent were considering moving out, citing the high cost of living, especially soaring housing prices and burdensome taxes.
 As the young have left and Levittown-era pioneers have lingered into retirement, the island's median age has steadily risen. Now 29 percent of the population is older than 50.
 The sizzling real estate market may be a bonanza for sellers, but a third of Long Islanders spend more than 30 percent of their income on housing, the report said. 
 In 1999 the median home price was about 2.5 times the median annual income. By last year, the median price had jumped to four times the median income in Suffolk and nearly 4.5 in Nassau.
 While the median home price, at $363,700, is comparable to those in other New York suburbs, the report said the scarcity of apartments resulted in ''some of the highest rents in the metropolitan region.''
 As for new housing, government and developers will have to be inventive because ''there is very little undeveloped land left on Long Island that is not protected parkland,'' the report said. About 70 percent of the island is developed -- nearly 90 percent in Nassau. By contrast, the report said that suburbs north of the city and in northern New Jersey are about 40 percent developed.
 Despite the fabled luxury of the Gold Coast and the elite Hamptons, the report said that 154,000 Long Islanders, or 5.5 percent, live below the poverty line, and many others are coping with dwindling income.
 From 1990 to 2003, the island lost 29,000 technology manufacturing jobs as most of the remaining aerospace industry -- once the local economic engine -- vanished. Still, there was a net gain of 80,500 jobs, led by an expansion of 34,000 jobs in health care.
 The catch was that the new jobs generally paid less. Average pay on Long Island peaked in 2000 at $42,875, and during the recession, it gradually slipped 6 percent to $40,329 last year.
 The Long Island paycheck premium is also shrinking, the report said. In 1993 Long Island workers earned an average of $39,385 a year, compared with the national average of $34,272, a difference of $5,113, or about 15 percent. Last year the local average was $40,329, while the national average was $38,636, a difference of only about 5 percent.
 Demographics are taking on new hues. The number of nonwhite residents increased from 16 percent of the population in 1990 to 24 percent in 2000. Hispanics are now the largest minority, making up 10 percent of the population, up from 6 percent in 1990. Next are blacks at 8 percent.
 But the races mostly remain in separate neighborhoods. ''Long Island is one of the most racially segregated suburban regions in the nation,'' the report said. 
 Immigrants are changing the island, where 196,255 of them moved between 1995 and 2002, the study said. Domestic migration in those years was led by 122,000 people from Queens and Brooklyn. 
 Mass transportation is limited, and, as any local resident can attest, traffic is fierce. Ninety-four percent of households have at least one car; two-thirds have two or more. ''From 1980 to 2000, the number of motor vehicles grew by 19 percent, more than three times the rate of population growth,'' the report said.
 Commutes are longer, too. In the 1990's, the number of workers commuting less than 30 minutes to work declined by nearly 50,000, the census showed. The number of people with longer commutes increased, especially those whose commutes took more than 90 minutes.
 The government that oversees Long Island is large, cumbersome and costly, the report found. ''Jurisdictional fragmentation'' characterizes the hodgepodge of two counties, 13 towns, two cities, 95 villages, 128 school systems and hundreds of other special districts for libraries, fire departments and other services, the report said.
 Together those governments employ 195,000 workers, more than any industry. Their workers' average pay is a fifth higher than the national average for government workers, a cost born by local taxpayers.
 ''Long Island is at a tipping point, facing serious challenges,'' Dr. Douzinas said, adding that she was optimistic that solutions would be found.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A portrait of Levittown, N.Y., from the 1950's, above, and today, below. Long Island is now ''the nation's first mature suburb,'' a study says. (Photo by Levittown Historical Society)
 A region long synonymous with families and children is losing part of its younger generation, and the median age of residents is steadily rising. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. B10)Chart/Map: ''Less Land for Development''Land available for development has dwindled on Long Island. Dark shading shows urban areas in 1962 and 1995.Map of Long Island highlighting urban areas in 1962 and 1995.(Source by Regional Plan Association)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); COUNTIES (89%); CHILDREN (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); CASE STUDIES (72%); CITY LIFE (70%) Geographic Profiles; Suburbs; Urban Areas; Age, Chronological; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Life Styles; Children and Youth; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal; Minorities (US); Taxation

ORGANIZATION: Rauch Foundation

PERSON: Bruce Lambert

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY); Levittown (NY); Long Island (NY); Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



300 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 34; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: For Now, More to Gain In Leading Than Winning

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
At least once a week since Jan. 19, John Kerry has gone to bed to the sound of cheering crowds and television anchors declaring him the one thing politicians want above all else to be: the winner. But every winner needs a loser or two to give his victories meaning, and Mr. Kerry's splintered opposition has so far probably helped him more than it has hurt.
 Conventional wisdom might hold that now is the time for Democrats to rally around Mr. Kerry, and thousands are. Yet so long as Mr. Kerry faces even nominal intramural opposition, President Bush's advisers worry that they will have a harder time getting equal attention for their political message, and Mr. Kerry's rivals seem to keep undercutting each other, not him.
 In Tennessee on Tuesday, for example, the combined vote for Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and retired Gen. Wesley K. Clark exceeded Mr. Kerry's own winning 42 percent by 8 points, suggesting that he might have been more vulnerable there to a single son of the South than a pair. 
 So the prospect of continued combat with Mr. Edwards and former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont -- while potentially annoying and distracting in terms of time, money and message -- may be far from Mr. Kerry's worst nightmare. ''Hopefully, we can do this every Tuesday,'' one senior Kerry adviser said with a chuckle on Wednesday.
 ''I think, frankly, it's good for Kerry,'' said Doug Schoen, a Democratic pollster not allied with any camp this year. ''It keeps him in the news, it keeps him dominant, and as long as there's the appearance of a contest, it gives him a victory each week, and even if it's simulated drama, the focus is on him. I think that creates momentum for him, and I don't think either Edwards or Dean appears to have any chance of blunting his surge. I don't see any downside.''
 Mr. Schoen added: ''If this all went away, I think people would start focusing to a much greater degree on 'Who's John Kerry,' which is by definition a more difficult question to handle.''
 Dr. Dean's attacks on Mr. Kerry -- on Wednesday he accused him of supporting ''politically corrupt fund-raising mechanisms'' and described him as being ''so much like a Republican'' -- now sound so harsh as to risk backfiring. 
 Mr. Edwards, whether by virtue of his vice-presidential ambitions or the dogged optimism he believes has worked for him all year, has refrained from sharp criticism of his own. Mr. Kerry can, and does, now look beyond both his rivals to President Bush in November, while Mr. Bush cannot quite yet look only to him.
 Presumably, one well-placed phone call from Mr. Kerry's intermediaries, with the right mix of threat and promise, could help persuade Mr. Edwards it was time to fold his tent, but there have been no signs of such overtures. 
 ''There may be an effort like that, but not at our behest,'' one Kerry adviser said. At this point, Dr. Dean seems inclined to pursue his candidacy as long as possible, so Mr. Kerry may have to keep taking whatever the doctor dishes out.
 Mr. Kerry's advisers acknowledge that, so far, the combination of the cluttered Democratic field and his own serial success has worked to his advantage. He has won 12 of 14 primary and caucus contests, something like one-quarter of the convention delegates needed for the nomination, and seems all but unstoppable by historical standards. But now, the aides say, the risks of a continued contest have the potential to begin outweighing the benefits.
 ''This isn't a 100 percenter one way or the other,'' one adviser said. ''There are some real benefits that come from the kind of night we had last night, a strong victory and the fact that we're doing it, thus far, across all voter groups and now in the South. But the longer we continue the process of picking a nominee, it's taking money, resources and time, and I think we're in a stronger position if we're able to focus, going forward, on the future.''
 Another Kerry strategist said: ''I think everybody's of two minds. Both arguments are there. The truth is at the end of the day, we have nothing to do with it, so it doesn't pay a lot for us to keep speculating on what's best. We just have to win as many primaries and delegates as we can.''
 Even as Mr. Kerry remains focused on that task, his aides are beginning to look ahead. While he will not be able to match Mr. Bush's expected spending, he has started new fund-raising efforts. Those include a concert by Carole King in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Thursday, at which some former backers of Mr. Edwards and Representative Richard A. Gephardt will now be writing checks for Mr. Kerry. And because Mr. Kerry chose not to accept public financing, there is no legal limit on what he can raise and spend.
 As of Dec. 31, the Democratic National Committee had more than $10 million on hand that it can begin spending to support the party's eventual nominee, and other independent groups are raising tens of millions of dollars that can be spent to criticize Mr. Bush and the Republicans.
 The endorsements keep rolling in as well. On Wednesday, the Alliance for Economic Justice, which has 19 member unions that advocate universal health care, job creation and other matters, voted to back Mr. Kerry.
 Jenny Backus, a Democratic strategist not aligned with any candidate, said that ''prolonged competition keeps the calendar relevant and on the front page, so it will help the candidate who wins these primaries generate media and front-page coverage'' in what would otherwise be a political dead-zone, and in turn ''look strong and victorious.''
 Mr. Kerry might also benefit from the competition in another way. He has been at his best this political season when battling back from being far behind Dr. Dean in the polls, and he still lacks some of the strengths that come through adversity: an ample airing of his weaknesses as a candidate, a testing of his temperament when under sharp attack, a thorough examination of a political personality that has sometimes left even his ideological allies cold in the past. To the degree that he still has to fight, even slightly, for the prize he has sought so long, he may be sharper and better, and inoculated against future attacks.
 And as long as Mr. Kerry is able to stand up and claim victory over somebody somewhere every seven days, it delays Mr. Bush's ability to start getting his own message out, either through the pulpit of the presidency, or the still-coiled spring of his own campaign, one of the president's political advisers said the other day. That has not stopped Mr. Bush's surrogates from beginning to outline the kind of attacks they would make on Mr. Kerry, but it has the effect of keeping the president himself somewhat in check.
 ''First of all, he's not the nominee,'' Mr. Bush said of Mr. Kerry on ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, when the moderator, Tim Russert, asked about the prospect of a contest between two Yale men. 
 For Mr. Kerry, a dragged-out contest, however superficial, is not without risks. It could become psychologically and physically wearing; it could cut into his fund-raising for a general election; he might yet stumble in some unforeseen and unforeseeable way. And even by the end of the huge bicoastal primaries in New York and California and Ohio on March 2 -- by which time more than half of all convention delegates will have been allocated -- Mr. Kerry will still almost certainly not have ironclad commitments from the 2,161 delegates needed to nominate.
 It is that reality that keeps Mr. Edwards, who finished behind Representative Dennis J. Kucinich in Washington and Maine, and Dr. Dean, who has yet to win any contest, in the race against all the odds. It must also keep Mr. Kerry and his aides awake a bit on even the best election nights this winter.
 ''As long as we have races, we have work to do to try and win them,'' one Kerry adviser said. ''And that's what we're going to do.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Delegate Tally''Current presidential preference of delegates to the Democratic National Convention, as compiled by The New York Times:TOTAL DELEGATES: 4,321ALLOCATED SO FAR: 556Not including unpledged superdelegates.NEEDED FOR NOMINATION: 2,161KerryPLEDGED DELEGATES
After Feb. 3 -- 175PLEDGED DELEGATES
TOTAL -- 323SUPERDELEGATES -- 119EdwardsPLEDGED DELEGATES
After Feb. 3 -- 55PLEDGED DELEGATES
TOTAL -- 122SUPERDELEGATES -- 39Clark*PLEDGED DELEGATES
After Feb. 3 -- 18PLEDGED DELEGATES
TOTAL -- 63SUPERDELEGATES -- 42DeanPLEDGED DELEGATES
After Feb. 3 -- 24PLEDGED DELEGATES
TOTAL -- 40SUPERDELEGATES -- 120SharptonPLEDGED DELEGATES
After Feb. 3 -- 7PLEDGED DELEGATES
TOTAL -- 8SUPERDELEGATES -- 3KucinichPLEDGED DELEGATES
After Feb. 3 -- 0PLEDGED DELEGATES
 TOTAL -- 0SUPERDELEGATES -- 2*Formally withdrew from the race on Wednesday.Delegate allocations are subject to change pending certification of final votes. Delegates for Iowa, North Dakota, Washington and Maine will be chosen at conventions later this year.The superdelegate count represents 643 of 801 votes. The figures above do not include 5 votes for other candidates and 313 undecided votes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERDELEGATES (95%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Todd S Purdum; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004



301 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Failed Basic Checks As Boys Starved, a Report Finds

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
A state investigation has concluded that four New Jersey boys who were found severely malnourished last fall had been systematically starved by their adoptive parents, while state child welfare workers, in a bewildering series of errors, failed to make the most basic checks on the children over a dozen years.
 In a case that prompted national headlines and outrage from Trenton to Capitol Hill, the investigation into the parents, Raymond and Vanessa Jackson, found that state workers did not follow their agency's own guidelines when visiting the Jacksons' Camden County home, when obtaining routine medical records for the boys and when checking the family's unsteady finances, according to a report released Thursday by the state's independent child advocate, Kevin Ryan.
 In fact, the report said, the state's child welfare policy in general is so poorly understood or ignored by workers that it is ''almost meaningless.''
 The Jacksons, who are free on bail while they face charges of neglect, have claimed that the boys' scrawny bodies and brittle health stemmed from birth defects and eating disorders. But the state found that the children were unmistakably starved. 
 Detailed medical examinations showed no evidence of disease or disorders, Mr. Ryan said at a news conference here Thursday, and all four boys have made remarkable gains in both weight and height since their discovery on Oct. 10, when a neighbor of the Jacksons in Collingswood, near Philadelphia, noticed the oldest boy, 19, rooting through the trash for food.
 The report amounts to the latest and perhaps most damning portrait of a child welfare system that Gov. James E. McGreevey and others -- including the agency itself, the Division of Youth and Family Services -- conceded last year was broken almost beyond comprehension. The death of Faheem Williams, a 7-year-old foster child whose body was found hidden in a Newark basement in January 2003, spurred widespread calls for change and led Mr. McGreevey to create the post of child advocate. 
 Although the state eventually agreed last June to a complete overhaul of the agency to settle a federal lawsuit condemning its foster care system, the new report raises serious questions about a key component of that effort: the agency's claim, days before the Jackson boys were discovered, that it had visited all 14,000 children in its care, one of the terms of the settlement.
 ''Our investigation has concluded that in a substantial number of cases, including the Jackson case,'' Mr. Ryan said, ''DYFS simply did not require or conduct face-to-face safety assessments for hundreds, if not thousands, of children.'' He noted that those instances involved children being supervised by the state's nine Adoption Resource Centers, regional offices that had monitored the Jacksons at various times.
 Taken in sum, Mr. Ryan said, the report raises questions about the effectiveness of policy reform at the agency, and leads to ''the very unsettling conclusion that policies designed to protect children are not strictly adhered to at DYFS and have not been for many years.''
 ''They're not even fully understood in the DYFS offices,'' he continued, ''and this raises inevitable questions that concern whether this system is too debilitated to support its own policies.''
 Marcia Robinson Lowry, the leader of the group that sued the state over its foster care system, said her organization was so troubled by the revelation about visits never made that it would step up its oversight. 
 ''I am really shocked,'' said Ms. Lowry, executive director of Children's Rights Inc., an advocacy group based in Manhattan. ''Either people were purposely flouting a federal court order or the depths of their incompetence was so profound that people didn't know what they were supposed to do.''
 The leader of the union representing many of New Jersey's social workers, Hetty Rosenstein, said Thursday that workers in the Adoption Resource Centers were told that they did not have to conduct face-to-face visits with children in their adoptive homes, but could base safety reviews on previous visits. She said the agency was overburdened and needed more staff members, training and technology to do a proper job. 
 James M. Davy, the acting commissioner of the State Department of Human Services, which includes the child welfare agency, said he planned to meet with Mr. Ryan to discuss the report and had ordered an immediate review of the visits questioned in the report. Any child whom workers had failed to check up on will be visited, he said.
 ''I am satisfied that the safety assessments we are currently doing are being done in person and are being done correctly,'' Mr. Davy said in a statement. 
 The report spells out in disturbing detail how caseworkers failed to recognize the severity of the Jackson boys' condition.
 Although child welfare policies called for the boys to receive annual medical checkups, Mr. Ryan said, workers had not enforced those guidelines since 1991 and none of the Jackson children had visited a doctor since 1997.
 Mr. Ryan said that there had been previous reports of malnourishment in the Jackson home and that each boy began losing weight soon after he was placed there. One boy, Mr. Ryan said, lost almost 10 pounds within a year of being placed with the Jacksons. Another child, 9-year-old Tyrone, weighed the same when he was found last October -- 28 pounds -- as he did when he was first placed in the Jackson home as a 17-month-old toddler. 
 Despite those signs, Mr. Ryan said, child welfare officials took no action. 
 ''In every case, these signs were all dismissed, ignored or overlooked by the State Department of Human Services and the State Division of Youth and Family Services,'' he said.
 Many friends of the Jacksons and members of their church rallied around the couple after their arrest. Some said that when asked about the slight stature and low weights of their children, the Jacksons said they suffered from fetal-alcohol syndrome and eating disorders.
 Citing those same ailments, the couple locked the refrigerator door -- for fear, they said, that the children would eat the food and regurgitate it -- and fed the boys a diet of uncooked pancake batter, peanut butter and cereal, the authorities said. Shortly after the police discovered the Jackson children, investigators found evidence that someone had been gnawing on the windowsills and walls of the family's home. 
 Mr. Ryan said doctors consulted in the investigation had conducted tests down to the genetic level, and had found no evidence of any ailments that could account for the children's condition. Indeed, he noted, since the boys were discovered and placed in various foster homes around the state, each has made significant gains in weight and height without the use of steroids or other means, but simply with a regular diet and vitamins.
 The results have been remarkable, he said. Bruce Jackson, the 19-year-old found rooting through the garbage, weighed 45 pounds and was 48 inches tall in October. He now weighs 82 pounds and stands 54.5 inches. Keith, 14, who was 40 pounds and 48 inches when found, is now 73 pounds and 49.75 inches. Michael, 9, who was 22 pounds and 37.5 inches tall, is now 43 pounds and 39 inches. Tyrone, 10, who is Keith's biological brother, was 28 pounds and 38 inches, and is now 43 pounds and 41 inches tall.
 Mr. Ryan's investigation, which involved a review of more than 20,000 pages of documents as well as interviews and sworn depositions by senior child welfare officials, also found that the agency had failed to verify the family's income when the Jacksons sought to renew the $28,000 adoption subsidy they received annually to help care for the boys and two girls they had also adopted. The household also included the Jacksons' two adult children and a foster child. None of the other children were malnourished, officials have said.
 Although one caseworker reported that the family earned $80,000 in 2002, investigators discovered that the Jacksons reported about $11,000 in income on their tax returns the year before. In the months before the Jackson boys were found, some utilities had been shut off for nonpayment and, the authorities said, Mr. Jackson was unemployed.
 The Jacksons are free on $100,000 bail each. Mrs. Jackson's lawyer, Alan D. Bowman, declined to comment on Mr. Ryan's report, as did Mr. Jackson's lawyer, Richard M. Josselson. 
 The Camden County prosecutor, Vincent P. Sarubbi, said he would not comment on the report while he waited for the Jacksons' case to be presented to a grand jury. In a statement, he said his office was still investigating whether any state workers acted criminally. Nine Division of Youth and Family Services workers connected to the case have been suspended, one has been reinstated and the agency is seeking to dismiss the others. 
 In his report, Mr. Ryan recommended that child welfare officials revise their safety assessment program, set up medical centers in their offices and keep better track of children's medical histories. He also urged the state to set up a quality assurance division to audit the agency's performance.
 Such reviews are intended to close what Mr. Ryan said were troubling gaps between the child welfare agency's policies and its performance. 
 ''The gaps call into serious question DYFS's past ability to ensure that its self-imposed regulatory requirements are properly interpreted and applied by the workers and supervisors responsible for enforcement,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''And those questions remain today.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Raymond and Vanessa Jackson and their children. Above, Kevin Ryan, the state child advocate. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); ADOPTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STARVATION (90%); FOSTER CARE (89%); FAMILY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); MEDICAL RECORDS (70%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (67%); EATING DISORDERS (66%); LITIGATION (60%); BAIL (53%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) Child Abuse and Neglect; Adoptions; Foster Care; Child Abuse and Neglect; Child Abuse and Neglect

PERSON: Richard Lezin Jones; Raymond Jackson; Vanessa Jackson; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey; Collingwood (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



302 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Low-Cost Airline Seeks Niche in Europe

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
With Hungary and Poland poised to enter the European Union, it makes sense that they should have what other highly developed countries have: a no-frills airline with a goofy name.
 Wizz Air, a low-fare carrier, will make its initial flight in May from Katowice, in southern Poland, to one of 10 destinations around Europe. It aspires to be the No.1 airline in central Europe by 2005.
 If that sounds a bit optimistic, consider that Wizz has signed leases for nine 180-seat Airbus planes -- a fleet that would daunt most start-up airlines, at least until they had demonstrated they could fill a single plane. 
 Supporters of Wizz, however, are convinced that the eastward expansion of Europe will create a vast new market for air travel. On May 1, the European Union will phase out aviation treaties intended to protect national carriers -- throwing the market open to any European upstart.
 ''Seventy million people will join the European Union in a couple of months,'' said Jozsef Varadi, chairman of Wizz Air, who runs the airline from a suite of freshly painted offices in a Budapest suburb. ''It's a huge market, with very little to serve these people right now.''
 Never mind that many of the potential customers for Wizz Air have never flown, let alone had to choose between carriers. Or that the Internet, which 90 percent of the passengers of budget airlines use to book their flights, has only half the presence in central Europe that it does in the West.
 Mr. Varadi cited as likely passengers for Wizz the thousands of Polish immigrants who work in Paris and London. Today, they have to endure 24-hour train trips back to Poland to visit their families. Soon, he said, they will be able to fly home on Wizz for nearly the same cost.
 ''Families were broken apart decades ago because of the underdevelopment of Eastern Europe,'' Mr. Varadi said. ''They're now trying to reunite, and we are providing the infrastructure for that.''
 That is as close as Mr. Varadi comes to a social rationale for Wizz. A former chief executive of the Hungarian state carrier, Malev, Mr. Varadi, 38, is a no-nonsense businessman who studied for this venture by visiting successful budget carriers, including Ryanair and EasyJet in Europe; JetBlue in the United States; and Virgin Blue in Australia.
 His conclusion was that no-frills airlines survive only if they grow large enough, quickly enough to make their operations efficient. The competition in the low-cost market, he said, is so cutthroat that a new entrant does not have the luxury of several years to build a franchise.
 ''We think that in Europe, there will be a consolidation that will leave no more than three, four, maybe five big successful players,'' Mr. Varadi said. ''We want to be a player in that premier league.''
 Even the well-established players have taken their lumps, however. Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost carrier, warned of lower profits recently, and was ordered by the European Commission to pay back at least 4 million euros ($5.1 million) in illegal subsidies it had received from Charleroi, the Belgian city south of Brussels, where Ryanair offers service.
 Wizz signed an agreement earlier this week with Charleroi's airport, but Mr. Varadi said it does not include subsidies. Like Ryanair, Wizz will generally fly to secondary airports outside major cities. It hopes, however, to establish a base at the international airport in Budapest.
 The popularity of cheap flights in Europe has crowded the skies with nearly 30 low-cost carriers. Even the east has other rivals: Air Polonia, which flies from Warsaw to London, and SkyEurope, which is based in the Slovakian capital of Bratislava and flies to London, Paris and Milan.
 ''Most of them are two planes and a press release,'' said Damien Horth, an airline analyst with UBS in London. ''Some of them are just a press release.''
 Mr. Horth said he was skeptical that central Europe would be a bonanza, given the region's relatively low per capita income and the lack of airline traffic. While EasyJet offers service from London to Prague, the planes tend to be full of Londoners on weekend trips.
 Other experts, however, said Wizz could carve out a niche in southern Poland, which is populous and not heavily served by airlines. ''In our studies, Poland comes up as the single most attractive market in central Europe,'' said Heiko Schulz, a consultant in the Munich office of the Monitor Group.
 Wizz has not yet published its fares, but Mr. Varadi said it would try to persuade people that flying was as economical as driving, or taking a train or bus. He said he expected three-quarters of his passengers to come from within the region. In addition to big cities, he plans to offer holiday destinations, like southern Europe in the summer and the Alps in winter.
 The comparatively low level of Internet users in central Europe could pose a hurdle, Mr. Varadi acknowledged. He said the airline would compensate by setting up call centers and working with travel agents.
 Fashioning an image to lift Wizz out of the crowd will be another challenge. Mr. Varadi said he chose the name because it was dynamic, easy to pronounce, and carried no cultural connotations -- no small matter in this part of Europe. He has settled on a purple and pink color scheme for the planes.
 Within weeks, Wizz hopes to announce that it has raised $40 million to $60 million in venture capital. Mr. Varadi, who was ousted from Malev in 2003 after clashing with the Hungarian government, said he believed that people here would respond as enthusiastically to no-frills flying as their western neighbors.
 ''The hype about low-cost airlines did not stop at the borders of the E.U.,'' he said. ''People have been waiting for this.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jozsef Varadi, chairman of Wizz Air, which is based in Hungary. (Photo by Szabolcs Dudas/Spectrum Pictures, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); AIR FARES (89%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AIR SERVICE (75%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Treaties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); AIRBUS SAS (57%); EASYJET PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) Wizz Air; European Union

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); EZJ (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Jozsef Varadi

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); POLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HUNGARY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); AUSTRALIA (51%) Hungary; Poland; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



303 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 9; DRIVING

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Altering Your Engine With New Chips

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
WHEN Scott Farrell, a Coast Guard instructor in Newport News, Va., wanted a big power boost for his 1998 Volkswagen Jetta TDI, he didn't lower the suspension, install a hot camshaft or add a free-flow exhaust. Instead, he had a business-card size electronic part installed -- a so-called ''performance chip'' designed to reprogram the car's engine control module to provide more horsepower. ''It was a night-and-day difference,'' he said.
 Mr. Farrell is just one of an increasing number of car owners using computer chips or software downloads to get better performance from their cars. E-mechanics are reprogramming systems to overwrite factory settings and take advantage of higher-octane gasoline. That allows advanced timing, increased power, sometimes even better mileage. Steve Dinan, founder of Dinan Engineering, a maker of high-performance parts for BMW's, said he now sells more than $1 million worth of chips annually -- a significant share of what he estimates is a $20 million market. 
 But hacking your car's electronic brain isn't always as easy as it sounds. Installing a new chip can be a daunting job for the owner who tries to do it himself. Garage operators across the country say they are seeing more cars with burned-out engines, partly because reprogrammed chips sometimes supply too much fuel and allow turbo pressure to exceed recommended limits. And even if the engine seems to be running better, it could be running dirtier and might not pass some states' emissions tests.
 Spencer Cox, the owner of Speedsport Tuning in Norwalk, Conn., said that he had recently towed in a Porsche 944 Turbo with $7,000 in engine damage. The owner had ''bought a chip and other performance goodies online and installed them himself,'' Mr. Cox said. ''For a week he had a big smile on his face because he gained 40 horsepower. But then it all blew up. It happens all the time.'' And in many cases, hacking the engine can void the warranty, leaving owners to pay for expensive repairs on their own. 
 Until the late 1970's, a car's fuel-and-air mixture was regulated by the carburetor, a relatively simple device as old as the automobile itself. But today's fuel injection systems are controlled by increasingly powerful onboard computers that regulate combustion efficiency, govern fuel economy and regulate emissions to federal and state standards. In most cases, when setting up a vehicle's computer, carmakers choose conservative settings that will allow the greatest gas mileage and cut down on maintenance problems, but will not always deliver the to-the-limits performance that owners want.
 That makes the chips easy prey to laptop-equipped hackers and Internet entrepreneurs who promise to ''put horsepower and torque increases at your fingertips,'' as the DiabloSport Predator describes it. Ranging from $200 to $500, these devices include install-it-yourself chips, hand-held gadgets that let owners dial in their preferred specs and computer downloads of performance-enhancing software. (Perhaps inevitably, the hacker culture has also produced automotive pirates who buy legitimate chips from makers then copy the programming onto blank chips, selling the results at sharp discounts.)
 Playing e-mechanic is not necessarily for the novice. To get better performance out of his 1992 BMW 325i, Chris Cagnolatti of Long Beach, Calif., paid $125 for an Active Autowerke chip, then spent ''two stressful days and nights of blood, sweat and tears working on a $1,000 computer module'' before he had it installed. The result: excellent ''bang for the buck,'' he said, though he doesn't know the actual amount of his power gain. Still not satisfied, Mr. Cagnolatti is now on his third software package, and is eyeing a device for BMW's that plugs into the car's diagnostic port ''and uploads the new software in less than a minute,'' he said.
 Partly to combat hackers, many carmakers are using encrypted chips in new models or, like Toyota, have done away with removable memory chips altogether. That has the e-mechanics shifting strategies, either by downloading new software directly into the computer's hard drive or attaching separate electronic devices that piggyback on the factory-installed control module and override it. Some of these devices alter the ''rev limiter'' that prevents engine speed from zooming beyond the red line or remove the speed governor that limits top-end performance.
 Don Jolley, a production manager at Bully Dog Technologies in Aberdeen, Idaho, which makes performance parts for trucks (and sells more than 1,000 chips a month), compares some overenthusiastic e-mechanics to the rock musicians in the movie ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' who buy custom-made amplifiers because they go up to ''11'' instead of the usual ''10.'' ''They think if a little power is good, than a lot must be great,'' Mr. Jolley said. 
THEN there is the warranty issue. ''We don't advocate the use of third-party components like performance chips because it means we lose control of the process,'' says Kevin McCormick, the manager of sales and service communications for DaimlerChrysler. ''We don't know the standards to which other manufacturers are building their products.''
 Indeed, some performance buffs adopt a ''don't ask, don't tell'' attitude regarding their warranties and reinstall stock equipment before every dealer visit. Others wait until the warranty is about to run out before changing the chips.
 ''It definitely creates a concern with new cars,'' said Shaun Blanco, high-performance manager at Newins Bayshore Ford in Bay Shore, N.Y. ''Do you really want to pay $25,000 for a new Mustang, which comes with a three-year, 36,000-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty, and run the risk of having Ford drop you like a bad habit?'' (Some chip makers, like Dinan, offer their own warranties.)
 Peter Cheuk of Daly City, Calif., is a computer technician, so installing his Upsolute chip wasn't a big deal. And he gained 18 horsepower and 70 foot pounds of torque in his modestly powered turbodiesel 1998 Volkswagen Jetta TDI. Still, he plans to return to the stock chip. He said that the problem was that, because he now drives faster, he lost 10 miles a gallon in fuel economy and, even worse, is now trailed by clouds of black smoke. ''But if it wasn't for the smoke, I'd be happy with it,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: MORE VROOM -- Scott Farrell, an electronics instructor in the Coast Guard at Newport News, Va., increased the power of his turbodiesel 1998 Volkswagon Jetta TDI with a performance chip in the engine control module. (Photographs by Yoon S. Byun for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); AUTOMOTIVE AFTERMARKET (76%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); GASOLINE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (63%) Automobiles; Engines; Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips

PERSON: Jim Motavalli

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



304 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; BIDDING FOR DISNEY: THE OVERVIEW

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Valuing Disney: What Is a Mouse Worth?

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Laura M. Holson reported from Orlando, Fla., for this article and Andrew Ross Sorkin from London.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Feb. 12 

 BODY:
As top executives and advisers for the Walt Disney Company scrambled Thursday to deal with the Comcast Corporation's unsolicited bid for the company, their most pressing task was determining how much Disney was truly worth and at what price, if any, the company would be sold, people close to the company said. 
 Disney's bankers -- Goldman, Sachs and Bear, Stearns -- have begun working up valuation models that are expected to show that Comcast's $54 billion bid fails to appreciate Disney's value as a business and a cultural institution, an executive close to Disney said. It is unclear how quickly Disney's board will be presented with this material and how long it will take the directors to evaluate it. Some independent board members, meanwhile, have talked about retaining an outside lawyer to advise them as they navigate the repercussions of the Comcast bid.
 Already here for a previously scheduled two-day conference for analysts, Michael D. Eisner, Disney's chief executive, declined to discuss any discussions among bankers, management and board members. But in an interview on Thursday, he said that the review process would include ''a whole panoply of things'' and that the board would consider every aspect of the proposal. 
 According to analysts and investment bankers, Disney's options range from hoping restive Comcast shareholders force the company to stand down to searching for a white knight. Some analysts also suggested that Disney could seek to make an acquisition of its own as a way to make itself a less attractive takeover target. But most of those options pose problems. 
 Many analysts and investors say Disney's priority will be to use price to deflect Comcast's overture. It is not unexpected that Disney's bankers would find the bid undervalued, and investors and analysts say the company could be worth $35 to $38 a share. On Wednesday, Comcast's stock offer was valued at $26.47 a share. 
 Mario Gabelli, a Disney shareholder who owns an asset management firm, said he thought Disney was worth $35 a share. And unless a higher offer comes along, Disney could have another year before it needs to do anything at all to appease investors. But, he added, ''Disney still has to continue to drive economic value.'' That could be achieved several ways. Disney could choose to merge with another company. Tom Wolzien, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said Disney could make a defensive acquisition to bulk up, like buying the satellite company EchoStar or a radio company like Clear Channel Communications. Mr. Wolzien even suggested a real estate concern. 
 Other analysts suggested a movie studio like Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which has been looking for a buyer for its library. 
 But any acquisition could create an even deeper perception of weakness, perhaps prompting other suitors to emerge. And buying a satellite company like EchoStar would take Disney away from its corporate strategy of focusing solely on creating entertainment programming rather than investing in cable or satellite operations, moves that would only validate Comcast's strategy. 
 In a question-and-answer period with analysts on Thursday, Mr. Eisner said any acquisitions Disney would consider would be content-related.
 The emergence of a white knight also seems increasingly unlikely. Few other giant media conglomerates, like Time Warner, could afford Disney's price tag. And recent political reactions against media consolidation could give any large deal difficulty with federal regulators. Another candidate mentioned over the years is Microsoft, which is an investor in Comcast but is expected to stay on the sidelines in the battle.
 One old-fashioned way Disney could show shareholders it is creating economic value is to do it the way its executives proposed during nearly two days of meetings with analysts: double-digit earnings growth. As many on Wall Street expected, earnings rose sharply in the first quarter of 2004, in part because operating income in all divisions increased. Revenue for the quarter was $8.5 billion, compared with $7.1 billion in the quarter last year. The biggest gainers were the studio division and the media networks division, home to ABC and ESPN.
 But almost every analyst interviewed here said that despite Disney's recent good earnings, they would have liked more financial analysis in the presentations to help them estimate how well Disney would perform. One analyst, who asked not to be identified, said most presentations were ''high on concept, trim on financials.'' Mr. Wolzien, for his part, said ''we've all been burned going after a movie or two,'' referring to the cyclical nature of the movie business.
 ''Their pitch is we are getting this fixed,'' he said.
 While those may be options, any pronouncements would be premature. Mr. Mitchell said that the entire board had met for an hour by telephone on Wednesday morning and that it had not met since. 
 Several analysts suggested that the board was likely to reject the Comcast bid because it was too low. With Disney's March 3 annual meeting looming, a decision could come before then. Any offer Disney weighs will not be based solely on a dollar amount, they said, but also whether that amount is made up of stock, cash or both.
 That is because media companies learned a lesson after the merger of AOL and Time Warner, when AOL used its inflated stock price to buy Time Warner. When AOL's earnings faltered, the stock price plummeted, despite Time Warner's rich assets in magazines, television and movies. Many media companies are now looking for stable value, Mr. Gabelli, the analyst, said.
 One person involved in the deal said that Comcast was not likely to raise its bid. But even if it did raise its bid, several analysts said, it was questionable whether Disney would accept the offer if it was solely in Comcast stock. Disney executives are already talking about what effect the news of a merger could have on the company.
 On Wednesday, several executives in Disney's finance team met in the bar of the California Grill on the 15th floor of the Contemporary Resort, where the investor conference was held. One person who attended said that two executives there expressed concern that Standard & Poor's had placed both Disney's long-term and short-term debt on a credit watch that morning, saying that the rating could be lowered if a stock deal with Comcast was made at the proposed price.
 For the most part, company executives seem hunkered down for what many people think will be a protracted fight. On Wednesday night, the heads of Disney's divisions met for dinner, one person who was there said, and were told not to discuss corporate goings-on, fearing investor lawsuits. Several people expressed disappointment then that the encouraging news from the conference had been usurped by the Comcast bid. And company executives debated how public they should be in their own defense, another person said. 
 Independent directors, meanwhile, weighed whether to bring in a lawyer from outside the company. Such a move would be unusual, though not unheard-of, because most boards do so only when other board members have an inherent conflict of interest, and in this case, Mr. Eisner does not. Indeed, the executives suggested that the board might decide against such an action because it might be seen as divisive and could also be seen as undermining Mr. Eisner's authority. 
 When asked if the independent directors were talking about a lawyer, the company said it was not true.
 Alan Schwartz, a top media banker from Bear, Stearns in New York, was at Thursday's conference and was seen slipping in and out of meetings and huddling with George J. Mitchell, the presiding director of Disney's board and a former senator. Disney has retained not only Mr. Schwartz, but Gene Sykes, a media investment banker at Goldman, Sachs who has a long relationship with Disney. 
 But by then, the mood at the conference, held at the Contemporary Resort in Walt Disney World here, had changed. On Wednesday morning, Mr. Eisner was somber when he entered the Fantasia Ballroom only four hours after hearing about the Comcast bid, quickly walking past photographers. 
 He was trailed around the hotel by a group of journalists. At one point on Wednesday, two photographers staked out a restroom Mr. Eisner had entered, but they were shooed away by a guard.
 But by Thursday afternoon the chief executive's humor and composure had returned. When an analyst asked him if Disney was considering acquisitions, he joked, ''We're buying Comcast.'' The crowd chuckled. He waved his arms at a bank of eight cameras and several more photographers and yelled, ''Turn off the cameras.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Feb. 13 with an article about Comcast's offer for the Walt Disney Company misidentified the location shown. It was the entrance to the Disney studio lot on Alameda Avenue in Burbank, Calif., not the animation division.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The animation division of the Disney studio complex in Burbank, Calif. Comcast has made an unsolicited takeover bid of $54 billion in shares. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (65%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); COMCAST CORP (93%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (80%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Comcast Corp; Goldman Sachs Group; Bear Stearns & Co; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: Michael D Eisner; Laura M Holson; Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



305 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Mixed; Jobs Weak

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
A report from the Commerce Department on Thursday provided a mixed picture of the strength of retail sales in January, showing a drop in car and truck sales but gains over all.
 In another report, the Labor Department said initial claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose last week by 6,000, to 363,000. The figure confounded analysts, who had predicted an improving job market and a dip to 345,000 new claims. 
 Over all, the number of Americans collecting jobless benefits continues to decline after the expiration of a program to extend benefits to the long-term unemployed.
 Total retail sales, a major part of consumer spending, fell 0.3 percent, to $322.87 billion in January, from December levels -- the first decline since September. But excluding figures for cars and trucks, which are often volatile, sales rose by a larger-than-expected 0.9 percent.
 The report generally was ''a favorable one for consumer activity,'' Mike Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America, said in a research note. ''The drop in vehicle sales was disappointing, but such volatility is common for this area. Sales elsewhere were generally strong.'' 
 Financial markets seemed less than impressed by the data, pushing down stock and bond prices moderately on Thursday. Investors also considered a second day of Congressional testimony from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who said Wednesday that he expected the economy to grow at a brisk pace in 2004 and interest rates to remain low.
 Wall Street analysts had forecast a flat reading on overall sales and a weaker 0.5 percent increase for sales excluding motor vehicles.
 Clothing sales, buoyed by the cold weather, were up 2.9 percent, the biggest increase since October 2002. Grocers' revenue rose 1.8 percent.
 Last week, Wal-Mart reported surprisingly strong January sales, spurred by the demand for warm winter apparel. Sales at stores open at least a year were up 5.7 percent, surpassing its forecast of a gain in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent.
 The Commerce Department also reported on Thursday that business inventories increased 0.3 percent in December, the fourth consecutive monthly gain. The stock-to-sales ratio, a measure of how long it would take to deplete current supplies, fell to a record low of 1.34 months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BONDS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); TESTIMONY (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%) United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (65%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (65%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



306 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Southwest's $29 Fares Jolt US Airways in Philadelphia

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Beginning a heated competition for passengers in Philadelphia, Southwest Airlines said yesterday that fares would cost as little as $29 for a one-way ticket when it begins service there on May 9.
 US Airways, the leading carrier out of Philadelphia, which is one of its three hubs, is countering Southwest's entry by starting a ''buy three, get one free'' promotion for customers who purchase tickets on its Web site. 
 Southwest, the nation's biggest low-fare carrier, announced plans to fly from Philadelphia last October, with 14 daily flights to Providence, R.I.; Chicago; Phoenix; Las Vegas; and Orlando and Tampa, Fla. Southwest will serve another 31 cities through connecting flights at those airports. Southwest said its cheapest fares from Philadelphia, purchased 14 days in advance, would range from $29 one-way to Providence, to $99 one-way to Midway Airport in Chicago. Tickets went on sale yesterday. 
 The move by Southwest jolted US Airways, which is the dominant carrier on five of the six routes that Southwest plans to fly. US Airways, which emerged from bankruptcy protection last year, is revising its restructuring plan, in part to reflect the challenge it is facing from low-fare airlines. 
 US Airways hired Morgan Stanley to find bidders for a series of assets, including one of its hubs. Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Charlotte, N.C., are its hubs.
 Last week, senior management met with union leaders to begin discussions on a third set of wage and benefit cuts, which unions are resisting. 
 Full-fare tickets on Southwest, purchased at the last minute with no discount, will start at $49 one-way to Providence, ranging up to $299 one-way to Las Vegas and Phoenix, the maximum fare that it charges nationwide between any two cities. The prices do not include federal or local fees or taxes.
 US Airways did not return a phone call seeking comment on its fares, but its Web site yesterday said the cheapest fare available to Providence on May 9 was $341 for a round trip, the equivalent of $170.50 each way, more than five times as much as Southwest. The Web site said the cheapest fare to Chicago on that day was $218 for a round trip, the equivalent of $109 each way, 10 percent more than its new rival.
 Southwest released a chart in which it said its competitors charged up to $497 one-way, or 10 times as much for a last-minute ticket from Philadelphia to Providence, and $1,270 one-way to Phoenix, or four times as much as Southwest.
 It did not name US Airways, but a spokeswoman for Southwest said the comparisons were drawn against US Airways' fares and did not represent an average from Philadelphia. A variety of airlines, including American and AirTran, compete with US Airways from Philadelphia, though it has two-thirds of the flights from there.
 Last week, B. Ben Baldanza, the US Airways executive vice president for marketing, said he did not think fares from Philadelphia would fall significantly when Southwest arrived, since other low-fare carriers already operate there. But James C. Wimberly, Southwest's executive vice president and chief of operations, disagreed. 
 ''I think you can see from the percentages that we do expect a dramatic decrease'' in ticket prices, he said. 
 With Southwest showing its hand, US Airways may be forced to match its fares on the routes where the two airlines compete, said Darin Lee, senior managing economist with LECG, an industry consulting group based in Cambridge, Mass.
 ''They clearly have to respond. Keeping their current fare structure in place would be suicidal,'' Dr. Lee said. 
 Mr. Wimberly also said Southwest would add new routes from Philadelphia once it begins service there. ''We would anticipate quicker expansion than otherwise would be expected,'' he said. 
 US Airways said it would provide a free ticket anywhere in the United States and Canada to customers who bought three tickets over the Internet for travel on US Airways, US Airways Express or the US Airways shuttle. Customers will pay applicable taxes and fees on the free ticket.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR SERVICE (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); WEB SITES (76%); SALES PROMOTIONS (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Southwest Airlines; US Airways

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



307 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 22; CLONING AND STEM CELLS: THE LABORATORY

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: South Korea, With Renowned Scientists, Jolts Field and Revives Debate

BYLINE: By SAMUEL LEN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Using high-powered microscopes and ultrathin glass filaments, workers dressed in space suits and white caps gently squeeze out the contents of a tiny cell and fill it with material from another.
 This is no ordinary laboratory. It was there, in Building 85 at Seoul National University, that Drs. Woo Suk Hwang and Shin Yong Moon created human embryos through cloning and extracted embryonic stem cells from one of them. 
 Their work, to be published on Friday in the journal Science, has shaken the scientific world and reignited debates over the ethics of human cloning. 
 Dr. Hwang, 50, an expert in animal cloning, has a knack for choosing high-profile projects. In December, he gained notice abroad after reporting that he had cloned cattle resistant to mad cow disease. In 1999, he began a project to save endangered tigers through cloning. He works virtually nonstop most of the week, catching sleep when assistants drive him to slaughterhouses and ranches, his workers say.
 ''If we were an army and Dr. Hwang was a general, he can be described as a leader who sets examples by actions rather than words,'' said Dr. Lee Byeong Chun, an associate professor at the university who works under Dr. Hwang. ''He's always delivering lectures to farmers, as well as officials in high positions, about the latest technology.''
 Dr. Moon, 56, an expert on female infertility, heads the South Korean Stem Cell Research Center that the government formed in 2002 to apply stem cell research to treat diabetes, heart disease and other diseases. Among its goals are developing technology to raise human embryonic stem cells and to form a genetic database based on the findings. The center is also developing a set of ethics for stem cell research.
 As in the United States, human cloning is a focus of heated debate here. When scientists at Kyung Hee University announced in 2001 that they had begun research on human cloning, Korean religious and civic groups mobilized to stop such research.
 Late last year, the government adopted a law barring cloning for reproduction. Experiments that use embryonic stem cells have to receive reviews and authorizations from a government ethics panel. Further regulations are to take effect next year.
 Seo Jae Chul of Green Korea, an environmental group that has joined with others to oppose human cloning, said the new findings caught opponents by surprise. ''Dr. Hwang's research had not been scrutinized by social groups, since he had been involved in animal research,'' Mr. Seo said. 
 Mr. Seo added that sensitivity to human medical experimentation seemed less acute in South Korea than in the West. 
 ''The Western world, especially Europe, experienced the atrocities of the Nazis,'' he said. ''Here, there is no such experience.''
 Drs. Hwang and Moon have emphasized that their aim is not to create carbon copies of humans, but to advance research into the nature and treatment of diseases. 
 The government, which provides $7.8 million a year for stem cell research, financed their work. Research organizations at universities like Seoul National also receive money from large companies and other private donors.
 Mr. Seo says the country needs to temper the speed of research and development arising from the rapid industrialization that has enabled the country to emerge from the ruins of the Korean War to become the 12th largest economy in the world.
 ''The fact remains the same,'' Mr. Seo said. ''They've opened a Pandora's box. Who can say for sure that this technology will never be abused? One thing for sure now is that we will call for deep scrutiny on this matter.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); CLONING (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); ANIMAL CLONING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (89%); ETHICS (89%); HUMAN CLONING (89%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); MAMMALOGY (75%); ANIMALS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (74%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (74%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); WILD CATS (70%); HEART DISEASE (69%); DIABETES (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (55%); RELIGION (50%) Reproduction (Biological); Research; Cloning; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Reproduction (Biological); Ethics

ORGANIZATION: Seoul National University

PERSON: Samuel Len; Woo Suk (Dr) Hwang; Shin Yong (Dr) Moon

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



308 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Shares Decline On Forecasts Of Earnings

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Shares fell yesterday as disappointing jobless claims data and lackluster earnings news led investors to lock in gains from the previous session. The Hewlett-Packard Company dragged down the Dow Jones industrial average after saying that first-quarter profit would not beat Wall Street's forecast. Shares of the Computer Sciences Corporation fell after a disappointing profit forecast. 
 Blue-chip stocks closed at a 32-month high on Wednesday, but the upbeat mood was punctured early Thursday after a government report said the number of Americans lining up for first-time jobless claims rose unexpectedly for the second consecutive week. A second surprise came in a report of declining United States retail sales in January, a result of weakness in auto sales. 
 The Dow fell 43.63 points, or 0.41 percent, to 10,694.07 yesterday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 5.65 points, or 0.49 percent, at 1,152.11. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was down 16.05 points, or 0.77 percent, at 2,073.61.
 Hewlett-Packard was the Dow's biggest loser, falling 93 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $22.91. Computer Sciences shares fell $3.75, or 8 percent, to $42.87. 
 In the bond market, prices on Treasuries slipped as the final leg of the government's quarterly debt auction was not as strong as hoped and the Treasury reported the budget deficit for January. In yesterday's Treasury auction, the $16 billion in new 10-year notes were sold at a price of 99.511 to yield 4.06 percent. The yield of the old 10-year note rose to 4.05 percent from 4.03 percent on Wednesday, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 5/32 to 101 19/32. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.511
High Yield: 4.060
Low Yield: 3.980
Median Yield: 4.019
Total applied for: $33,053,276
Accepted: $17,072,480
Noncompetitive: $133,629
Interest set at: 4

The 10-year notes mature Feb. 15, 2014.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); DEBT NOTES (86%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (84%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (92%); CSC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



309 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Opens Phone Lines To Plug-Ins Over the Net

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Homes could start being connected to the Internet through electrical outlets, and consumers and business may find it easier to make cheaper telephone calls online under new rules that the Federal Communications Commission began preparing on Thursday.
 Taken together, the new rules could profoundly affect the architecture of the Internet and the services it provides. They also have enormous implications for consumers, the telephone and energy industries, and equipment manufacturers.
 Michael K. Powell, the F.C.C. chairman, and his two Republican colleagues on the five-member commission said the twin moves, and a separate 4-to-1 vote Thursday to allow a small company providing computer-to-computer phone connections to operate under different rules from ordinary phone companies, would ultimately transform the telecommunications industry and the Internet. 
 ''This is a reflection of the commission's commitment to bring tomorrow's technology to consumers today,'' Mr. Powell said. He added that the rules governing the new phone services sought to make them as widely available as e-mail, and possibly much less expensive than traditional phones, given their lower regulatory costs.
 At the same time, once the rules allowing delivery of the Internet through power lines are completed, companies could provide consumers with the ability to plug their modems directly into wall sockets just as they do with a toaster, desk lamp or refrigerator.
 Under the new rules, expected to be completed in coming months, electric utilities could offer an alternative to the cable and phone companies and provide an enormous possible benefit to rural communities which are served by the power grid but not by broadband providers. A number of utility companies have been running trials offering high-speed Internet service through their transmission lines. 
 While the technology has been developed, it is not clear if such a service would be profitable or able to compete in markets dominated by cable and telephone companies. But F.C.C. officials noted that the vast majority of the nation's households did not yet have high-speed Internet service, leaving the market wide open to rivals.
 In the phone proceedings on Thursday, a majority of the commissioners suggested that new Internet phone services should have significantly fewer regulatory burdens than traditional telephone carriers.
 The commissioners also voted 4 to 1 to approve the application of a small Internet company, Pulver.com, ruling that its service of providing computer-to-computer phone service, called Free World Dialup, should not make it subject to the same regulations and access charges as the phone carriers.
 Industry experts say that neither the phone service nor the broadband delivery systems offered by electric utilities would make sizable inroads for at least the next two years. But in moving forward with the new regulations, they said the F.C.C. was reducing regulatory uncertainty and encouraging major companies and investors to put lots of money into the new technologies to enable them to move to market more quickly.
 A number of companies, including giants like Time Warner and AT&T, have recently announced plans to get into the business of delivering ''voice over Internet'' telephone services through cable television and phone connections.
 Kathleen Q. Abernathy, a Republican commissioner, said the nation ''stands at the threshold of a profound transformation of the telecommunications marketplace'' as more companies move from traditional circuit-switching phone technology to Internet-based delivery systems. 
 But a Democratic appointee, Michael J. Copps, raised objections to the Pulver petition and questioned the underlying themes of deregulation in the two rule-making proceedings. He said they had set the agency on a course that could effectively rewrite the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and make it easier for the leading phone companies to escape needed regulation.
 Mr. Copps also criticized the majority of the commission for rejecting a request by law enforcement agencies that the F.C.C. first work out the legal and technical problems in monitoring phone calls over the Internet before moving ahead. 
 ''I believe it is reckless to proceed and I cannot support this decision at this time,'' he said of the Pulver application. ''The majority apparently prefers to act now and fix law enforcement issues later -- along with universal service, public safety, disability access and a host of other policies we are only beginning to address.''
 Mr. Powell replied pointedly to Mr. Copps's criticism, arguing that it was time for the commission to offer a new deregulatory climate that the old phone companies may seek to take advantage of along with their competitors. ''The Telecommunications Act is nine years old,'' he said, ''and it is being rewritten by technology.''
 The decision to begin writing rules for Internet-based phone services was hailed by major manufacturers of Internet and telephone equipment and by some of the largest phone carriers, which are preparing to offer Internet-based phone services of their own.
 ''Verizon strongly agrees that the F.C.C. should move forward quickly to apply a light touch in regulating true voice-over-the-Internet services and should not burden this new technology with the same economic regulations that apply to the traditional phone network,'' the company, which is based in New York, said in a statement on Thursday afternoon.
 Another big regional Bell company, SBC Communications of San Antonio, said it was ''excited about the opportunities this will give us to deliver new services to customers in this dynamic, swift-moving industry.''
 Still, thorny regulatory issues remain. Foremost among them is the web of fees that the new service providers will have to pay to traditional phone carriers for making the connection between their customers and the Internet telephone customers. Interconnection and access charges in the telephone industry have long been the source of fierce adversarial lobbying by the local and long-distance carriers; the new technology raises complex and arcane issues that will ultimately have a vast role in the profitability of the new services.
 In recent months, lawyers representing both the large and small phone companies have been holding unpublicized meetings and negotiations in an effort to come up with a new fee system. The effort, if successful, could relieve the commission of the burden of developing a new way of paying to support the essential features of the telephone system. 
 The F.C.C. has heard complaints from officials at law enforcement agencies who say they have encountered technical and legal difficulties monitoring terrorist and criminal suspects who make use of the new services.
 Commission officials said they planned to begin considering rules soon that would preserve the ability of the law enforcement agencies both to carry out surveillance orders and to have the companies pay the often expensive costs of making their systems available to monitoring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); BROADBAND (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (86%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); APPROVALS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) Federal Communications Commission; Pulver.com

PERSON: Michael K Powell; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



310 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 11; FILM REVIEW

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Soulful Androids Who Endure Those Cold Humans

BYLINE: By ELVIS MITCHELL

 BODY:
Opening today in Manhattan, the writer-director Greg Pak's ''Robot Stories'' -- a fantasy anthology that details the ways robots have complicated human lives -- has a dexterous sense of wonder that nonetheless leaves the film feeling a bit detached. Perhaps it's because the film's four stories, well told, have the gentle lull of whimsy. But Mr. Pak's fascination with the material goes a long way; many of the loveliest moments seem to owe to touches from Isaac Asimov's sweeping ''Robot Chronicles.''
 ''Robot'' had its debut at last year's Slamdance Film Festival in Park City, Utah, and its ambition in fashioning intrigues also reveals the director's generosity of spirit. (As a director, Mr. Pak is good at maintaining a poker face. His 2000 effort ''Asian Pride Porn'' is a hilarious almost-documentary featuring the playwright David Henry Hwang hustling the virtues of, well, the title, as if he were comparing the vitamin content of bowls of Total to other leading cereal brands.) 
 Mr. Pak's stylized stoicism is discernible in ''Machine Love,'' the segment in which he can be seen as Archie, an android office worker who gamely endures the ridicule of the other drones around him because of his single-mindedness. With a clever economy of means, ''Machine Love'' conveys the blooming of feelings inside the android, who is slowly developing an attachment to a woman who works nearby. The director is using the material to joke about the coldness of humanity and the intimidating power of loneliness. (Humanoid cognoscenti may note an intersection between Asimov and George Lucas's directorial debut, ''THX 1138.'')
 ''Machine Love'' could have been the title of the four pieces that make up ''Stories.'' In ''My Robot Baby'' the intensity of a driven would-be mother (Tamlyn Tomita), desperate to pick up parenting skills by caring for a robot baby so she can qualify for adoption, is easily the most compelling element in the vignettes. Mr. Pak's feel for melodrama adds a piercing and thoughtful end note similar to the emotional gravity found in Stephen King novellas like ''The Body'' and ''Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,'' both in Mr. King's collection ''Different Seasons.''
 But it's the director's respect for the actors he's selected that seems to be his strong suit, a duty and a focus that work hand-in-exoskeleton with the thematic mission of the protagonists in each of the chapters of ''Stories.'' This aspect links the film's segments closely to ''Different Seasons.'' The films ''The Shawshank Redemption'' and ''Stand by Me'' grew out of tales in ''Seasons'' of similarly intelligently observed moments of everyday life poised on the brink of horror. 
 The influence of others is most glaringly apparent in ''The Robot Fixer,'' another story of motherhood and determination. Bernice (Wai Ching Ho), who refuses to be struck down by grief -- though its damage to her is visible -- slaves to restore robot toys belonging to her comatose son. Her hope is that her efforts will restore him to consciousness. Mr. Pak's restraint and taste keep this particular part mild, and his attentiveness to his star is gracious and sure. She responds by providing Bernice with a visibly disintegrating purposefulness, trying to keep her pain from rattling her psyche into smithereens.
 The most nakedly striving of the stories seems to be ''Clay,'' which jumps to a future a few years away in which the infirm will download their memories -- their conscious minds -- from their failing bodies, so that a part of them is left behind. ''Clay'' tries to deal with the philosophical ramifications of such an act; John Lee (Sab Shimono), an elderly artist, is reluctant to submit to the process.
 ''Clay'' is also the piece that could have used more consideration: it's a notion in search of a story, but captivating enough to make us want to see it more fully realized than the available resources allow. (Another of Mr. Pak's scripts, ''MVP,'' a Detroit-set urban melodrama combining a noirish gang war and politics, directed by Harry Davis, was shown at this year's Sundance festival. In both cases you can feel the projects running out of cash.)
 The most startling aspect of ''Robot Stories'' is not the mix that the director built from spare parts left on the curb but the evolving dramatic acumen of its maker; he's a talent with a future.

ROBOT STORIES

Four related short films written and directed by Greg Pak; director of photography, Peter Olsen; edited by Stephanie Sterner; music by Rich Knutsen; production designer, Shane P. Klein; produced by Mr. Pak and Kim Ima; released by Pak Film Inc. At the Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated.

MY ROBOT BABY
WITH: Tamlyn Tomita (Marcia), Vin Knight (Doug) and James Saito (Assistant).

THE ROBOT FIXER
WITH: Wai Ching Ho (Bernice), Louis Ozawa Changchien (Wilson) and Cindy Cheung (Grace).

MACHINE LOVE
WITH: Greg Pak (Archie), Julienne Hanzelka Kim (Lydia), Bill Coelius (Bob) and Julie Atlas Muz (Janet).

CLAY
WITH: Sab Shimono (John Lee) and Eisa Davis (Helen).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Coelius, left, and Greg Pak in ''Machine Love,'' from Mr. Pak's ''Robot Stories.''
 James Saito and Tamlyn Tomita, who tries to learn to be a mother, in ''My Robot Baby.'' (Photographs from Robot Stories Productions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); PARENTING (69%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures ; Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (58%); STEPHEN KING (58%) Elvis Mitchell; Greg Pak

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); UTAH, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



311 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25; FILM IN REVIEW

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: 'La Mentale the Code'

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:

Directed by Manuel Boursinhac
In French, with English subtitles
R, 116 minutes
 A fumbling tribute to the philosophical French gangster films of the 1950's, like Jean-Pierre Melville's ''Bob le Flambeur'' and Jacques Becker's ''Touchez-Pas au Grisbi,'' Manuel Boursinhac's film ''La Mentale the Code'' shifts the underworld action from its traditional location in the Pigalle neighborhood of Paris to the new loci of criminal activity, the so-called citis. Vast concrete-block structures, the citis were built on the fringes of urban areas to contain the poor in an environment removed from actual economic and historical centers.
 This warehousing of the poor (the residents are mainly of North African descent, lured to France in search of work) was meant to remove minorities from the old urban slums but succeeded mainly in cutting them off from all political and economic life. There are few jobs around the citis and, with little or no public transportation, few ways of escaping them to find legitimate employment.
 The film, which opens today in New York and Los Angeles, features two stars of the new French action cinema, Samuel Le Bihan (''Brotherhood of the Wolf'') and Samy Naceri (the resourceful cab driver in the ''Taxi'' series, produced by Luc Besson, now in its third successful installment). Though ''Brotherhood'' had a brief American run, these films are usually not exported, for the very good reason that American audiences are generally not interested in European imitations of their own genre cinema.
 ''La Mentale the Code'' (the awkward title is a result of the distributor's melding of the French original title and its English translation) probably should have stayed on a shelf back in Paris as well. The story is yawningly familiar: Mr. Le Bihan plays Dris, a former gangster who has emerged from four years in prison determined to make a new life with the squeaky-clean, blue-eyed Lise (Marie Guillard). But his best friend from childhood, the successful gangster Yanis (Mr. Naceri), wants Dris in on a big armored-car heist he is planning. He assigns the Gypsy prostitute Nina (Clotilde Courau, a burgeoning Jennifer Jones type), to rekindle her old romance with Dris and pull him back into the fold.
 There is a lot of talk about ''la mentale'' (a mental state more than a code) that unites the suburban gangsters: no snitching, no betrayals, no invasion of other gangs' territory. Of course, the Napoleonic Yanis, like boatloads of Scarfaces before him, sees no reason that these petty rules should apply to him.
 A gang war inevitably ensues, pitting Yanis's men against the armies of an older mob chieftain, an equally unscrupulous type who does not hesitate to kidnap Yanis's callow younger brother. The violence is convulsive but not cathartic, and the philosophizing hardly has the world-weary authority of Jean Gabin in ''Grisbi.'' It remains to be seen what the New York art-house audience will make of this bloody, low-brow Euro-programmer, grandly inflated in prestige by the mere fact of being imported.
 ''La Mentale the Code'' has been rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has gunplay, some salty subtitled language and occasional eroticism.
 DAVE KEHR

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); GANGS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Dave Kehr; Manuel Bourinhac; Samuel Le Bihan; Samy Naceri

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



312 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Asian-Americans Note Issues Central to Them for Elections

BYLINE: By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Contending that the growing influence of Asian-Americans, as well as issues that concern them, are being overlooked in an election year, a coalition of organizations that represent Asian-Americans announced on Thursday a unified platform intended to increase politicians' involvement with the ethnic group.
 The platform, dealing with issues like poverty, hate crimes and immigration changes, is intended to educate the parties and help Asian-Americans judge candidates. 
 ''Our issues are being ignored because the candidates are not focused on our communities as voters,'' Karen K. Narasaki, executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium in Washington, said. ''Our population has grown so rapidly that a lot of politicians don't have a sense that there are sizable Asian-American communities outside of California and New York.'' 
 The Asian-American population grew 72 percent from 1990 to 2000, to nearly 12 million, the Census Bureau says. Although the number is 4.2 percent of the total population, the concentrations in pivotal states like California and the rapid growth of the population in battleground states like Nevada and Florida signal growing power, organizers said.
 Some Asian-American leaders have lamented the attention paid to other groups, saying the diversity among Asian-Americans -- a mix that includes an array of languages, religions, cultures and partisan leanings -- might make them harder to focus on than other groups. The unified platform, organizers said, should help bridge that gap.
 ''We don't care if the candidates are politically correct, if they can say hello to a crowd of voters in a dozen Asian languages,'' Christine Chen, executive director of the Organization of Chinese Americans, said. ''That's superficial. We want them to familiarize themselves with our communities and with our issues.''
 The coalition of 18 groups delivered copies of its agenda to the Democratic and Republican National Committees on Wednesday. At a news conference on Thursday, organizers said few presidential campaigns had Asian-Americans in senior positions. The organizers called for party leaders and candidates to meet Asian-American groups, attend voter forums and commit money to register, educate and collect information on Asian-American voters. 
 Neither party nor any presidential hopefuls responded to the requests, the organizers said, although minority-outreach coordinators from each party were at the news conference.
 Some issues in the policy paper counter a longstanding perception of Asian-Americans as a ''model minority'' with little need for social assistance. Though Asian-Americans have high median incomes overall, not all segments are economically secure. In 2000, the report said, the poverty rate among the Hmong ethnic group, primarily from Laos, was 38 percent. The rate among Cambodian-Americans was 29 percent, and it was 16 percent for Vietnamese-Americans.
 The report noted that more than two-thirds of Asian-Americans where born overseas. Limited English proficiency and a lack of bilingual providers, Ms. Narasaki and others said, block a significant segment of the group from equal access to education, health care, housing and other services. 
 Although much of the discussion on immigration has recently focused on Hispanics, Asian-American leaders said comparatively little attention had been paid to the many people in their communities who had been detained, deported or delayed in applying for permanent residency as a result of stricter procedures. New restrictions also have hampered family reunification for immigrants with family members threatened by ethnic, political and religious persecution in Asia.
 Civil rights issues also weighed heavily in the report, which advocated strengthening hate crimes laws and modifying the new antiterrorism law to protect privacy and civil liberties. 
 ''There is a growing realization among Asian Pacific-Americans that equal justice issues affect us all,'' said Preetmohan Singh, national director of Sikh Mediawatch and Resource Task Force.
 The participating organizations said they had planned large-scale voter education and registration programs to improve civic involvement in Asian-American communities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (96%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); POVERTY RATES (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CENSUS (70%); IMMIGRATION (56%); RELIGION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Elections; Asian-Americans; Election Issues; Registration of Voters; Finances

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN AMERICAN JUSTICE CENTER (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

PERSON: Lynette Clemetson

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



313 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Western Magazines Go Global at a Fast Pace

BYLINE: By OTTO POHL

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Squint at the magazine rack here and you could be back in New York. Cosmopolitan, Elle and Marie Claire vie for display space with Forbes, In Style and Esquire, and Harper's Bazaar stands shoulder to shoulder with GQ.
 In South Korea, as around the world, versions of Western titles are appearing with dizzying frequency, driven by global brands in need of advertising vehicles and purchased by the growing legions of globalized consumers. It is a pace that has picked up over the last decade as Eastern European and Asian markets have opened. 
 ''Our mandate is to go forth and multiply,'' said Jim Jacovides, director for licensing and syndication at Time Warner's Time Inc. And the largest magazine groups all have an international division doing just that.
 As Western publishers extend their reach, by publishing the magazines themselves, creating joint ventures with foreign publishers or licensing the name and content, they are influencing consumer tastes, fashion and local advertising. 
 They are also facing unexpected challenges, even in sophisticated markets like South Korea, with its affluent, fashion-conscious consumers. Here, the magazine market is plagued by unaudited circulation figures that limit advertising rates. Competition in the increasingly crowded market has become more intense among the international offerings as well as with the local magazines, which have begun fighting back by adopting Western customs and increasing their promotional efforts to build readership. And experts say the days of easy growth might soon be over.
 Worldwide, ''The low-hanging fruit has been picked,'' said Charles McCullagh, vice president for international magazines at the Magazine Publishers of America.
 Still, he and other experts say, there is room for growth. 
 Cosmopolitan, owned by the Hearst Corporation, is the current record holder of worldwide editions, with 51, including the United States original, Cosmopolitan Korea, Cosmopolitan Kazakhstan and Cosmopolitan Croatia. 
 There are 135 editions of Hearst magazines published outside of the United States, 48 of which were introduced in the last five years. The company says it continues to introduce new ones at a rate of about one every six weeks.
 Hachette Filipacchi, owned by Lagardere and publisher of titles like Elle, Premiere and Popular Photography, has 238 titles worldwide. Advance Publication's Conde Nast unit has 75, up from 30 in the early 1990's, with 4 here in South Korea alone, including Vogue and GQ. And Jonathan Newhouse, head of the company's international division, still sees room for growth.
 ''We're nowhere near the peak in terms of expansion,'' he said, adding that emerging markets account for 20 percent of profits. 
 The United States magazine market remains by far the world's biggest. ZenithOptimedia, a media buying agency based in London, calculated that some $16 billion was spent on advertising in American magazines in 2002, about four times the amount spent in the second-largest market, Germany. 
 But while these markets will always remain the core business of Western magazine companies -- the South Korean magazine ad market is estimated at $263 million -- they are expensive and difficult places to introduce a new title. The combination of a proven concept, existing content and guaranteed base of advertisers makes replicating magazines overseas much less risky. 
 ''It's not quite a photocopy machine,'' said Didier Guerin, president of the Sydney-based magazine consulting firm Media Convergence Asia Pacific, but it is much easier than developing a new magazine in an established market.
 International magazines often have little brand name recognition when they enter a far-flung market. Instead, the high-quality content and the luxury brand advertisers form a symbiosis, each building the brand value of the other, publishers say.
 The lack of initial brand name recognition can confer flexibility. In South Korea, for instance, where 17-year-olds do not have the purchasing power of their American equivalents, Seoul Cultural Publishers, the publisher of the Hearst title Seventeen, aims at women from 20 to 29 and tells readers that title refers to the date the magazine appears: the 17th of each month.
 There have been other creative adjustments in South Korea.
 Elle Girl, Vogue Girl, Cosmo Girl and Figaro Girl all came on the market within months of each other last year, brand extensions of the primary titles all already on the market. With the magazine rack increasingly crowded and the economy limp, South Korean publishers of both international and homegrown titles have been offering a bewildering array of gifts to entice customers to buy their magazines. While the practice is used in other markets around the world -- it is big in Italy, for example -- analysts say its use is most extreme in South Korea.
 One afternoon last month at the Kyobo Bookstore here in Seoul, Vogue Girl was offering each purchaser a book. Kiki, a local magazine for teenage girls, was offering a can of Fanta soda and a bathroom scale. The lure for Queen, a magazine for housewives, was a box of laundry detergent.
 Cosmo Girl seemed to be generating the most attention with its gift bonanza: a shoulder bag, a calendar, a makeup box and a coupon worth 10,000 won ($8.33) -- twice the magazine's cover price -- at an online store.
 Most gifts are made cheaply in China or subsidized by the manufacturer whose brand appears on the item, so that keeps costs down for the publisher. But the freebie arms race has undermined readership loyalty. ''The most important thing is the gift,'' said Woo Hye Yun, a 26-year-old secretary who was browsing the titles at Kyobo. ''There is no special difference to the magazines.''
 Establishing circulation figures here is tough. South Korea has a magazine audit association, but publishers do not reveal verifiable figures to it. Many claim that their circulations top 80,000, though others insist that no title has a circulation over 30,000.
 ''It's kind of a frontier mentality,'' said Adam Smith, head of publications at ZenithOptimedia, about the lack of data on magazine circulations. ''No other developed country conducts itself in this way.''
 Kim Young Chull, chief executive of Kaya Media, which publishes five foreign titles under license, said this lack of transparency had contributed to low ad rates. Kaya's South Korean edition of Esquire, he said, gets around $3,500 a page. The base rate for a page in the United States edition is more than $78,000.
 Ad rates in domestic titles are even lower, around $3,000 a page, and that low price yields magazines crammed with ads and as thick as encyclopedias.
 Growing markets also mean growing sophistication and competition from local magazines.
 These kinds of challenges hardly worry Western publishers. Magazine markets grow with the economy, Mr. Guerin, the consultant, said, and Asian economic growth will continue to outstrip Europe or the United States. 
 Mr. Kim hopes for the day when he can introduce a completely homegrown magazine that can compete with foreign ones. But partly because many readers still think foreign means better, he said, ''For now, I must wear Western clothes to attract readers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker explains the gifts that a customer can receive for buying a magazine in Seoul, South Korea. (Photo by Otto Pohl for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); SALES FIGURES (71%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (71%) Magazines; Magazines; International Trade and World Market; Advertising and Marketing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: TIME INC (91%); HEARST CORP (84%); LAGARDERE SCA (52%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Cosmopolitan (Magazine) ; Hearst Corp

TICKER: MMB (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Otto Pohl

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CROATIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); GERMANY (57%) East Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



314 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan, With a Big 'if,' Backs Bush Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said on Thursday that Congress should make President Bush's tax cuts permanent only if it made up for the lost revenue with cuts in spending or other tax increases.
 Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan provided modest political support for one of Mr. Bush's top priorities but explicitly disagreed with the president's proposals on how to pay for it. 
 Permanently extending the tax cuts that Congress passed in 2001 and 2003 would increase projected deficits by $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
 Mr. Bush's budget proposal does not address that shortfall in detail, but it does call for Congress to adopt new spending rules that would restrict its ability to increase spending on discretionary domestic programs.
 Mr. Greenspan, who expressed increased alarm this week about the prospect of large budget deficits for years to come, called for reinstating Congressional restraints that were in force during much of the 1990's and required lawmakers to offset new tax cuts and spending proposals.
 ''I am in favor, as I have indicated in the past, for continuing the tax cuts that are in dispute at this particular stage,'' he said. ''But I would argue strenuously that it should be taken out on the expenditure side.''
 When asked whether he would apply the restrictions to new tax cuts as well as to new spending, the Fed chairman said he would. ''That's what they're there for, taxes and spending,'' he said.
 Mr. Greenspan expressed similar opinions last year, when he gave tepid support to Mr. Bush's last round of tax-cutting proposals. This year he has escalated his criticism of the deficits, which are expected this year and for the foreseeable future.
 A Republican whose views have enormous influence among lawmakers from both parties, the Fed chairman did not criticize Mr. Bush's fiscal policies directly and made it clear that he preferred to reduce deficits by spending less rather than taxing more.
 But his proposals went much further than those of Mr. Bush, who has promised to reduce the budget deficit primarily by freezing or cutting most federal programs outside of defense and homeland security.
 Mr. Greenspan, by contrast, urged lawmakers to examine cuts in mandatory entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare. The entitlement programs are far more sensitive politically, and Mr. Bush has just enacted a law that will add prescription drug benefits to Medicare at a cost of $540 billion over 10 years.
 Congress adopted what were known as ''pay-go'' rules in the early 1990's, under which new spending programs and new tax cuts had to be financed by either spending cuts or tax increases in other areas. Those rules expired in the last few years, and Congress has not renewed them.
 Conservative Republicans as well as many Democrats, complaining about a budget deficit that is expected to exceed $500 billion this year, have begun calling for a return to budget restraints that would include taxes as well as spending. 
 On Thursday, a bipartisan group of senators sent Mr. Bush a letter pleading for a full reinstatement of the old rules.
 ''The government needs to restore and strengthen the federal budget process by, among other things, enacting statutory pay-as-you-go requirements for both spending and revenues,'' said the letter, which was signed by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, as well as Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.
 A spokesman for the White House budget office, Chad Kolton, tried to put the best light on Mr. Greenspan's comments by noting that the administration shared some of the Fed chairman's views.
 ''The chairman said frequently in his testimony that restraining spending is the preferred method for reducing the deficit, and we agree wholeheartedly with that,'' Mr. Kolton said. ''He also said he agreed with discretionary spending caps, which are also part of the president's proposal.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



315 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE MARKETS

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Money Flowing To Stock Funds At a Fast Pace

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Americans poured a near record amount into stock mutual funds in January, suggesting that last year's rebound from a three-year rout had restored investors' confidence in stocks.
 But the inflow of $40.8 billion last month may not be as positive as it appears. Some analysts consider it a sign that investors may be too bullish, too willing to expect last year's enormous gains to be repeated. The mutual fund data show that many investors are jumping into 2003's best bets, like foreign and smaller company stocks, which have already had big runs. 
 ''The economic fundamentals are good -- no one disputes that,'' said Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Banc of America Securities. ''But expectations are high. People should rein in their expectations after a big year like 2003.''
 The January flows into stock mutual funds, reported yesterday by AMG Data Services and the third best for any month since 1992, show that investors remain strongly connected to funds despite regulatory investigations into trading practices. 
 Part of the stock fund gains appear to be coming from people saving for retirement. Transfers to stock accounts from fixed-income accounts in 401(k) plans last month were at their highest rate since the Hewitt 401(k) index began tracking such changes in 1997. After a long lull, trading has picked up in recent months at brokerage firms as well. At Charles Schwab, investors placed an average of 221,000 stock trades daily for the first 12 days of January, the highest level in three years and nearly double that for the full month of January last year.
 Other gauges of sentiment support the notion that stocks are the place to be. The Market Vane Bullish Consensus, which measures the recommendations of market advisers, stands at 70 percent, a 24-month high and above the 61 percent level it reached in January 2000, before the bull market began unraveling in March of that year. The average of the bullish sentiment index of the American Association of Individual Investors is 61 percent this year, up from 47 percent last year.
 There is reason for the renewed faith. No less than Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said this week that the economy should grow at a brisk pace this year. Mr. Greenspan also said he expected worker productivity to be strong and interest rates to remain low, which should buoy corporate earnings. 
 The three main stock market gauges are up 43 percent or more since the market revival began last March, and neither the Dow Jones industrial average nor the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have suffered a significant sell-off since April. The Dow closed at its highest level in more than two and a half years on Wednesday, fueled by Mr. Greenspan's remarks and the Disney takeover proposal, though it and the market's other main gauges slipped yesterday.
 Despite the stock gains and all the positive indicators of sentiment, many analysts see reasons to be cautious. The last time money poured into stock mutual funds at a pace like this was in the first two months of 2000, with $42.7 billion in January and a record $46 billion in February, according to AMG's data, which goes back to 1992. In March, the stock market bubble burst, sending the S.&P. 500 index down as much as 49.1 percent in the three-year sell-off and the Nasdaq composite index down 77.9 percent.
 Analysts are not predicting a sell-off like 2000 now. But some are more inclined to restrain investors than to say keep on coming. The Market Vane Bullish Consensus ''is in what we consider nosebleed territory,'' said Rich Ishida, senior market analyst at Market Vane, which compiles a broad range of market indicators. ''We are advising anyone who is real bullish to be cautious.''
 Some analysts are predicting that the market is ready for a fall of 5 percent or more because the Dow and the S.&P. 500 have been rising without such a correction for 318 days, the 11th-longest run since 1932, according to Birinyi Associates.
 At the Leuthold Group, which is a money management and research firm in Minneapolis, managers have reduced their allocation of stocks to 60 percent from 70 percent at the beginning of January. ''We are a little bit concerned by the overall bullishness in the market right now,'' said Andrew Engel, senior research analyst at the Leuthold Group. 
 Mr. McManus of Banc of America Securities says many people begin the year putting their money where they wish they had put it the previous year. Nearly 24 percent, or $9.7 billion, of the $40.8 billion that went into stock funds in January flowed into international stock funds, which invest most of their money abroad, according to AMG. 
 The amount is a record, surpassing $8.9 billion in February 2000. It also suggests that investors are betting on a decline in the dollar to help bolster their returns, as the dollar's fall did last year. (When the dollar falls in value, investments made abroad in other currencies are worth more when translated back into dollars.) 
 About $2 billion, or 4.9 percent of the January total, went into global funds, which invest their money both abroad and in the United States.
 ''The numbers are less supportive of the market than you would think,'' said Ken Safian, head of Safian Investment Research. ''If a lot goes into international, that will not have a big impact on our market.''
 The data show that $5.4 billion, or 13.1 percent, went into small-cap funds, which invest in smaller companies. That was the fourth-best month since 1992. Some of these stocks can be found in the Nasdaq composite index but not in the Dow or the S.&P. 500. 
 Mr. McManus said that the money flowing into smaller-company stocks was one reason the Russell 2000 index of these companies was up 6.4 percent this year, more than 1.75 times the rise of the three main market gauges. Last year, the Russell index rose 45.4 percent, almost as much as the Nasdaq and about 20 percentage points more than the Dow and the S.&P. 500.
 ''There is very little value in the small-cap area at these prices,'' Mr. McManus said. ''But people are still chasing what worked last year.''
 Mr. Engel of Leuthold expects stocks to end the year with gains. But he considers the surge in bullishness and the pursuit of last year's hot stocks a sign the market is ready for a fall -- maybe a decline of 7 percent to 10 percent in the S.&P. 500. 
 ''It may be time,'' he said, ''to take some money off the table for a better buying opportunity in the next month or two.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''It's the Sound of The Market Inflating''The money flow into stock funds in January were the highest since early 2000, just before the bubble burst. Much of the money was directed toward small-cap funds and international stock funds.Graphs track monthly figures of all equity funds, small cap funds and international equity funds from 2000 to 2003.(Source by AMG Data Services)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); US 401K PLANS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Foreign Investments; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); AMG DATA SERVICES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Amg Data Services

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (74%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



316 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Budget Woes to the Wind as Schwarzenegger Takes to the Road

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Tom Arnold, the television personality, was philosophizing on the shoulder of the Pacific Coast Highway, sitting on his motorcycle, waiting for his pal Arnold Schwarzenegger, the governor of California, to arrive.
 ''The thing about politics,'' Mr. Arnold offered, ''is that men lose their masculinity and women lose their femininity. But Arnold is holding on to it.'' 
 Mr. Arnold smoothed his leathers and tugged up his gloves, rodeo style. Sufficiently arranged, he said: ''Arnold does like to shop, though. He's probably got an outfit all picked out for today.'' 
 And a few minutes later, at precisely the appointed hour -- 7:30 a.m. -- Mr. Schwarzenegger turned his gleaming Harley-Davidson onto the highway. He sat tall and ramrod-straight, made no movement, gave no expression, holding the handlebars as if they were the reins of a parade chariot and he Ben Hur. He was tailed by two cars with plainclothes California Highway patrolmen, who were earning overtime.
 Tom Arnold was right. The governor was dressed in neat leather pants, polished leather boots and a scratched leather jacket, black gloves, black sunglasses, black helmet. His handshake was firm and his nails were manicured. 
 ''A metrosexual,'' Mr. Arnold said.
 The nation's other governors might have been home at that moment, lingering in bed with their spouses, cocooned in their blankets. Mr. Schwarzenegger was up and out, doing what he does best -- being himself. In allowing a reporter to come along for the ride, on his own Harley, the governor was making sure the public saw him.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger knows that his personality and his legions of fans are the root of his uncommon political successes. Though he holds an office that can require remoteness and restraint, Mr. Schwarzenegger has abandoned neither his old friends nor his old habits, like the Sunday motorcycle ride from the Pacific Palisades here into the Malibu Canyon, something he has done for 20 years. He wears a big blue ring, his language is the stuff of the barracks and he drives a loud bike. 
 And so, Mr. Schwarzenegger the governor is careful to make time for Arnold the swashbuckler. With the state's finances in disarray and a $15 billion bond measure going before the public that could make or break the world's fifth largest economy, and with a debate raging over an execution then scheduled in less than two days (it was later postponed), Mr. Schwarzenegger was busy instructing a newspaper photographer where she might position herself to get the best possible pictures.
 With seven people and four plainclothes men waiting, the governor took time to listen to an old sunbeaten man tell him about the time he was attacked by sharks.
 ''That's a truly fantastic story,'' the governor said in his chunky accent. ''Really.'' He patted the man on the back and mounted his bike.
 Though the men who ride with him are wildly successful in their own rights -- among them were James Cameron, the director; Stan Winston, the special effects wizard who built the Terminator robot; Charlie Temmel, the ice cream king; and Kenny Fleiner, the auto body man -- Mr. Schwarzenegger is their commandant, and they his batmen. He rode lead the entire way.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger is a competent biker. Steady and sure, a model of precision. Through Malibu and into the canyons, he never put a foot on the pavement, never signaled with a hand, never turned his head. He smiled once for the camera.
 As he and his entourage arrived at the Rock Store, a place deep in Malibu Canyon where old men take their new bikes, the crowd lunged before composing itself, going from giddiness to indifferent manliness.
 ''He's my kind of guy,'' one graybeard said over his coffee. The men at the store had seen Mr. Schwarzenegger many times before, and they tried to behave as if having him in their midst was no big deal.
 The governor and his men sat at a table in the back near a window. The rest of the bikers kept a respectable distance, though someone shouted, ''You're doing a great job, Arnold.''
 Mr. Cameron asked him how governing was going. 
 ''They're really shaken up up there,'' he said of Sacramento. ''It's a trip. You should see it.''
 He talked about the art of compromise, popularity polls, special interests, prison investigations and the atrium outside his Sacramento office, where he is able to smoke his Cuban cigars -- 20 feet from the entrance as state law requires. 
 ''A lot of business gets done there,'' he said. ''Who doesn't like a good stogie?''
 The waitress came around. She called him sweetie. She called everybody sweetie. He ordered oatmeal with nuts and fruit and a cup of coffee. Toast, no butter. Most of the men did likewise.
 Some strangers in the dining hall became emboldened. One took a photo. Another tried to hand him a letter. He said he could not reach his son, who was serving in Iraq. The plainclothes men formed a wall around the man with the letter. The governor stood and offered his hand. 
 ''We'll see what we can do,'' he said.
 ''Thank you, governor,'' the man said. ''I voted for you. Glad I did.''
 The larger the audience, the more Arnold Schwarzenegger seems to grow. Without admirers, he is like a Stradivarius without strings. A crowd infuses him with vitality. A crowd defines him.
 Seen now, in this comfortable place, the governor seemed years removed from last October's recall campaign, when he sat in the rear of his bus with a single aide, looking pale and damp, a pinched expression spread across his square face. He was being called a Hitler lover. A lout. A brute. Things were out of his control and confidence seemed to have escaped him.
 ''You know, I really enjoyed that, it was like running through a minefield,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger says now. ''I get off on the excitement. I like being in the center of things. In fact, I thought the job of governor was going to be boring compared to that, but it's not.
 ''You have to remember something. Everybody pities the weak. Jealousy you have to earn.''
 In little more than three months in office, despite no experience in politics, he has proved himself an effective negotiator. He has managed to repeal the car tax increase and have rescinded the law that would allow illegal aliens to hold drivers licenses. A Republican, he persuaded the Democratically controlled Legislature to put the $15 billion bond measure on the March ballot along with a balanced-budget initiative. He will be campaigning hard in the next three weeks to get voters behind the issues.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger promised to be a larger-than-life presence in Sacramento. He is threatening to allow slot machines at race tracks and in card rooms if Indian tribes do not agree to turn over a quarter of every casino dollar to the state. He hired an investigator to look into allegations that he manhandled women in the past -- and then fired him -- almost without protests. He is investigating the prison guards union for mismanagement of prisons. He has given an ultimatum to the energy companies to renegotiate their contracts to supply the state.
 He is as colorful as his predecessor, Gray Davis, was monochromatic. Mr. Davis calls him occasionally, seemingly unable to stay away from politics. ''I don't know why he calls,'' the governor said. ''But he tells me how well I'm doing. Isn't that fantastic? He's coming over for dinner tonight.''
 (Mr. Davis has borrowed a page from Mr. Schwarzenegger's biography, and undertaken something of an acting career. He will make a cameo next month on the CBS sitcom ''Yes, Dear.'' He will play a straight man.)
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, 56, is still broad in the shoulders, narrow in the hips and has no visible paunch. Unlike many retired athletes, he does not disdain exercise. He does not lift heavy weights anymore, preferring 45 minutes of cardiovascular exercise in the morning and 30 minutes of light weightlifting in the evenings.
 ''When you get older you have to worry about the heart,'' he said. ''When you're 50, you have to cut out the dessert.''
 The governor splits time between his Brentwood mansion here and a hotel room at the Sacramento Hyatt. He commutes to Sacramento in a private jet, and when staying in the capital, he works out at a public gym. His wife, Maria Shriver, recently left NBC News to avoid conflicts.
 Ms. Shriver is said to be deeply involved in Sacramento politics, acting as a mediator between the governor's office and the Legislature. She recently said that what rankled her most in the recall campaign was the insinuation that her husband did not allow her to wear pants. ''A reporter asked me if my husband allowed me to wear pants,'' she recalled. ''I said what do you see me wearing now? Pants. As if I need permission.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger said he prefers his wife in skirts but makes no demands. ''I just think she looks better, that's all,'' he said.
 When the breakfast was finished, Mr. Schwarzenegger paid the bill and Mr. Cameron left the tip. 
 With that, Mr. Schwarzenegger jumped back on his bike and rode off into the California sunshine, followed by the plainclothes men.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Becoming governor of California has not stopped Arnold Schwarzenegger from a Sunday motorcycle ride with friends. He led them north last Sunday and had breakfast with them at a diner. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (84%); MEN (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (69%); BITES & STINGS (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (60%) Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Governors (US)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) Charlie Leduff; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



317 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Bush Acts to Ease the Furor Over Jobs Shipped Abroad

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., Feb. 12 

 BODY:
President Bush on Thursday sought to quell a ruckus over remarks by one of his top economic advisers, assuring a crowd that he was concerned about the loss of American jobs to other countries, an increasingly potent issue in the 2004 campaign.
 ''There are people looking for work because jobs have gone overseas,'' Mr. Bush told a gymnasium full of supporters and students at Central Dauphin High School here. ''And we need to act in this country. We need to act to make sure there are more jobs at home, and people are more likely to retain a job.'' 
 On Monday, N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, told reporters that ''outsourcing'' -- companies' practice of taking work done by Americans and moving it to low-wage countries abroad -- was ''probably a plus for the economy in the long run'' because it reflected an expansion of free trade benefiting all nations, including the United States. Mr. Mankiw has since recanted, saying in a letter to the top House Republican, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, that ''my lack of clarity left the wrong impression that I praised the loss of U.S. jobs.''
 In an election year when Democrats are regularly attacking Mr. Bush for the loss of millions of jobs during his presidency, Mr. Mankiw's initial remarks have been criticized by members of both parties as insensitive and politically tone-deaf. 
 Mr. Bush did not mention Mr. Mankiw during his hour-and-a-half visit, his 25th to Pennsylvania, which he lost in the 2000 election and wants to win this year. But here in a state that has lost about 84,000 jobs during his presidency, he pushed his job-training and education programs, and said one solution to jobs' moving overseas was to train Americans for higher-paying work at home.
 ''It used to be, you know, crank somebody out of high school, and if they could run a backhoe, that's going to be fine,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And there's nothing wrong with backhoe drivers -- we're going to need them. But we're also going to need computer programmers, or people working in the health sciences.''
 Mr. Bush has asked Congress for $500 million in the next fiscal year for education and job training programs, including $250 million for partnerships between community colleges and employers and $120 million to improve math education. He has also asked for $28 million more to train teachers to teach Advanced Placement courses, which can qualify students for college credit.
 John Kerry, who is leading in the Democratic presidential primaries, issued a statement on Thursday with Barbara Hafer, the Pennsylvania state treasurer, a Democrat, describing Mr. Bush's call for more money for job training as ''ludicrous'' because all that Pennsylvania had seen was ''continued devastation and double talk.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%) Labor; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Layoffs and Job Reductions

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; N Gregory (Prof) Mankiw

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



318 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Newark Holds Rally to Back New Arena for Devils

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Newark's cheerleader-in-chief, Mayor Sharpe James, donned skates and took to the ice at a recreation center here Thursday to rally support for the city's plan to build an arena for the New Jersey Devils.
 In what was billed as a ''pep rally,'' Mayor James put on hockey gear with the East Side High School hockey team and joined the owners of the Devils, some of the team's stars and local corporate and political leaders in welcoming the team to the city.
 No mention was made of comments by Gov. James E. McGreevey this week supporting the continued operation of the Meadowland's Continental Arena, which some economic studies have indicated would pose crippling competition for the proposed $300 million, 18,000-seat arena in Newark. Nor did Mayor James or the Devils' officials release financial details of the proposal, insisting that those had yet to be worked out. 
 Instead an ebullient Mayor James and a more diffident Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' president and general manager, mugged like new in-laws at a wedding. It was a ceremony in the Ironbound Recreation Center's ice rink, with the singing of the national anthem, balloons and a Zamboni. ''While we will cheer you affectionately as the Devils,'' said Mayor James, wearing skates and a jersey with ''Newark '07'' on the back, ''we will always see you as angels of hope.'' More than 250 people gathered to cheer the mayor and the speakers who portrayed a revived downtown Newark as the home of hockey's Stanley Cup champions. 
 ''Our moving here will give the state the opportunity to get out of a business they should never have been in the first place,'' said Mr. Lamoriello, referring to the operation of the Continental Arena by the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority. 
 Mayor James said that for the Devils to play here in 2007, the team and the city would have to wrap up their deal in time for construction to start before the end of the year. 
 About $200 million of city revenue from the leasing of Newark Liberty Airport and about $100 million from the Devils would pay for the arena. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ICE SKATING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (71%); AIRLINES (60%) Hockey, Ice; Stadiums and Arenas; Continental Airlines Arena (East Rutherford, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: Ronald Smothers; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Sharpe (Mayor) James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Newark (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



319 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Eat and Be Merry; Tomorrow 2 Classics Die

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS and WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Call it the Valentine's Day massacre. 
 Lutece and Gage & Tollner, two historic restaurants that for decades had attained almost the status of civic institutions, will shut their doors on the same day, tomorrow. Another, La Cote Basque, will follow early next month. Hands wring. Diners mourn. The New is cursed. Doom is inferred. Darkness descends. 
 So very not. 
 If longtime customers were surprised and workers crestfallen yesterday, restaurant experts did not liken the closings to a canary, nor New York's restaurant universe to a mineshaft. 
 ''Of course it makes you sad for the employees, but you can't say it's gloom and doom for the business,'' said Clark Wolf, a New York-based restaurant consultant. ''In a sense, it's good news that a couple of dinosaurs are dead. More than ever, New York needs vitality more than it needs monuments.'' 
 Michael Batterberry, the editor and publisher of Food Arts magazine, said that with the opening of a starburst of new high-end restaurants, including the forthcoming creations of the celebrity chefs Thomas Keller, Gray Kunz, Charlie Trotter and Jean-Georges Vongerichten in the recently unveiled atrium at Time Warner Center in Manhattan, ''one wonders about its subliminal influence on the owners of restaurants that have been on life-support without the public knowing it.'' 
 Perhaps the imminent closings underscore the primacy of what Malcolm M. Knapp, a Manhattan-based restaurant consultant, termed ''Gresham's Law in Reverse.'' 
 ''Good restaurants drive out bad ones,'' he said, adding: ''Even if we have a saturated market, another really good restaurant will just knock out a less successful one.'' 
 Certainly those who, like Mr. Batterberry, cherish the city's restaurant history are likely to regret the demise of the gaslit Gage & Tollner, at 372 Fulton Street, first reported in The New York Post yesterday. At age 125, it is a landmark without and within, and miraculously lived long enough to celebrate the turn of a century for its second time four years ago. 
 Michael Whiteman, whose company, Joseph Baum and Michael Whiteman, is an international restaurant consulting firm, said of the Brooklyn restaurant's recent history, ''it was one of those venerable institutions that has been looking for a market, and had never been able to find one.'' 
 Joseph Chirico, Gage & Tollner's owner since 1995, accounted for the closing by saying ''the business was dragging every day.''
 ''I made the decision, best to cut it short,'' he said. Mr. Chirico cited changing demographics and the redevelopment of Fulton Street, which limited automobile access. 
 Yesterday he observed the large lunch crowd, brought in by news of the closing: ''I wish it was like this every day. Where were they all these years?'' 
 The four-story brownstone is to be sold to a group of investors who will put another restaurant there, according to Ezra Saff, president of Retail Zone, a Brooklyn real estate broker who handled the transaction. 
 ''There will be a new restaurant that the community will really like,'' said Mr. Saff. There are rumors of a chain restaurant, but Mr. Saff would not identify the new occupant. He would also not confirm that the reported selling price is in the $2.5 million range. 
 The closing caught many customers by surprise. ''I've been coming here for 40 years,'' said Robert B. Catell, chairman and chief executive of the KeySpan Corporation, which has its offices nearby at 1 MetroTech Center. He pointed to the ornate brass lamps and noted the flames burning inside them. ''We're in the gas business, so that's of interest to us.''
 But after tomorrow, a Gage & Tollner waiter will no longer hold high a glowing wax candle wick and methodically light the 36 gas lamps in the venerable dining room, ending a nearly continuous run stretching back to 1879, when Charles M. Gage opened the original oyster and chop house at 302 Fulton Street. After Eugene Tollner joined the venture in 1880, it began to cater to civic leaders, sports greats and society and literary figures, even before moving to its present location in 1892. Its cut-glass chandeliers, mahogany tables and mirrored walls attracted the likes of Diamond Jim Brady, and the place had not changed all that much by the time it welcomed Jimmy Durante and Mae West half a century later. 
 In the 1980's it was bought by Peter Aschkenasy, a restaurateur, and subsequently underwent something of a revival when Edna Lewis, a Southern-cuisine purist, issued cornbread, catfish and a legendary she-crab soup from the kitchen until she retired at the age of 75.
 But the restaurant's customer base had been eroded by the corporate and retail exodus from downtown Brooklyn, and it was isolated by its envelopment by low-end retail stores in the Fulton Mall. The restaurant was foreclosed by its bank in 1995, and closed for a time.
 Mr. Chirico bought it in 1995, restored much of its interior, reconfigured it for 180 seats on the first and second floors, and reopened it in 1996. But despite the economic revival of surrounding neighborhoods, ''it was at the center of everything but near nothing,'' said Mr. Whiteman, a longtime resident of Park Slope. 
 ''The irony is that now Brooklyn is booming all around it, but it's not close to any of those booming neighborhoods,'' he said. ''It was too far away from the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Cobble Hill, or Dumbo or Williamsburg or Park Slope.'' 
 Also on Valentine's Day, Lutece, the 43-year-old French landmark at 249 East 50th Street, will end its run as the quondam pillar of classical French dining in the city. 
 Its heyday, however, was more than a decade ago, and its owner, Michael Weinstein, president of Ark Restaurants, cited the decline in expense-account business and the restaurant's inability to successfully modernize the cuisine of Andre Soltner, the former chef and owner. 
 Mr. Batterberry said that it had also ''fallen prey to changes in terms of people's wishes for lunch.'' He said this was ''light and fast, with barely any wine.'' 
 Lutece 's closing, and that of La Cote Basque, the 45-year-old former high-society temple of French cuisine at 60 West 55th Street, which will close early next month, might be related to the city's rebounding economy. This resurgence, which is expected to continue, has posed a quandary for the owners of struggling restaurants, Mr. Wolf said. ''Do they hang in there and wait another year and a half, until their boat gets raised with the tide, or do they sell the building?'' 
 He added: ''With the arrival of Thomas Keller and company, it's kind of a classy time to bow out.'' 
 Mr. Knapp said that, according to the strategic principles of a Harvard Business School scholar, Paul R. Lawrence, restaurants have the option of re-adapting themselves incrementally to changing times, or, if that doesn't work, to attempt a giant adaptive change -- such as the reinvention of Le Cirque as Le Cirque 2000 in a new space. 
 ''Neither Lutece nor Gage & Tollner could successfully re-adapt,'' Mr. Knapp said. But La Cote Basque, in transforming to a brasserie with a different name, ''is trying for that big adaptive change,'' he said. 
 Tim Zagat, publisher of the Zagat Survey guides, said that the closings ''don't imply anything negative about the health of restaurants in New York.'' 
 ''This is,'' he said, ''one of the biggest restaurant years in memory.'' 
 For the moment, Lutece diehards can still visit the satellite restaurant in the Venetian Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. And Mr. Chirico insisted he would reopen Gage & Tollner in another location. 
 As is so often the case, many of Gage & Tollner's workers were the last to learn about the closing. ''I was down here yesterday celebrating my birthday and no one said a word to me,'' said Wade Sinclair, 77, who retired as maitre d'hotel in 1991, but still works on big holidays. 
 He explained the restaurant's system of patches worn by venerable waiters. ''A stripe is a year, a star is five years and the eagle is 20 years,'' he said. Then, looking around the room he has known so well for so long, Mr. Sinclair said he'd be working on Valentine's Day.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wade Sinclair, the retired maitre d'hotel at Gage & Tollner, will be there tomorrow. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Joseph Chirico, owner of Gage & Tollner, says he hopes to reopen. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
Jean-Jacques Rachou, the owner of La Cote Basque, which is closing. (Photo by Carol Halebian for The New York Times)
 Lutece, the landmark on East 50th Street, will end its run tomorrow. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); PUBLISHING (67%); CELEBRITIES (52%) Restaurants; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: Lutece (NYC Restaurant); Gage & Tollner (NYC Restaurant); La Cote Basque (NYC Restaurant); Food Arts (Magazine)

PERSON: Glenn Collins; William Yardley; Michael Batterberry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004



320 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11; CONNECTIONS

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Is Fear Itself the Enemy? Or Perhaps the Lack of It?

BYLINE: By Edward Rothstein

 BODY:
''Go ahead please -- take day off!,'' cajoled the vintage cartoon image of the Japanese enemy that loomed over the audience before the opening of a conference about fear at the New School University last week. 
 After Pearl Harbor such were the methods of urging Americans to work hard and support the war effort. In a preliminary slide show another image showed an even more ominous caricature of a Japanese and a Nazi peering over opposing ends of the globe, greedily eyeing the verdant lands of North America. ''Warning! Our homes are in danger now!,'' it read. 
 This used to be called propaganda. And even when crude it had an accepted function: to galvanize, urge, justify, remind and, yes, frighten. More recently, with less calculation, images of the collapsing World Trade Center have had a similar effect. But at a time in which a war on Islamist terror is working itself out in so many incarnations and with so many controversies, what seems noteworthy is that there are now so few examples of graphic American propaganda and none using ethnic or racial caricatures. 
 Yet this conference, called ''Fear: Its Uses and Abuses,'' which extended over three days, paid little attention to that difference. Beginning with former Vice President Al Gore, who delivered the keynote address, speakers asserted again and again that the American government is preoccupied with instilling fear. The conference, organized by the journal Social Text and its editor, Arien Mack, gathered scholars like the poet and critic John Hollander, the political scientists George Kateb and Ira Katznelson, and the law professor Cass R. Sunstein. There were talks on the neuropsychology of fear, the social psychology of fear and fear in literature, and varied analyses of the Bush administration from critics like the Nation columnist Eric Alterman and Aryeh Neier, the president of the Open Society Institute. 
 But the dominant idea was that, as the conference's thematic statement put it, fear was being ''encouraged by our government and exacerbated by our media.'' It was compared with the irrational fear of Communism and the perversions of McCarthyism. It was described as part of a counter-constitutional coup by a radical right. Talks about other aspects of fear -- how, for example, it tends to drive out reflective thought with its stimulus of the ''lateral nucleus of the amygdala'' -- mainly served to frame the theme. Mr. Hollander devoted some time to discussing Roosevelt's classic statement that ''the only thing we have to fear is fear itself,'' but after a while it became evident that ''fear itself'' was what many speakers wanted to inspire, not just to describe. 
 Mr. Gore asserted that a ''powerful clique'' had the run of the White House. We were being ruled, he said, by a president with a ''determined disinterest in the facts,'' who ''abused the trust of the American people by exploiting the fears of the American people,'' and a Republican party that thinks of other Americans as ''agents of treason.'' The ''machinery of fear is right out in the open,'' he said, ''operating at full throttle.''
 This image, which was meant to frighten not a little itself, did indeed galvanize the audience; later in the conference some speakers pushed it in even more radical directions. 
 Mr. Kateb, an emeritus professor of politics at Princeton, saw a conspiracy at work. He compared President Bush to a ''despot.'' In Chomskyesque fashion he argued that the American government is using its war on terror ''to justify the national security state'' and feed its economy, and that terrorism is just a stand-in ''for a much larger enemy, which is made up of Arabs and Muslims everywhere'' who are now being tyrannized in a ''racist'' and ''imperialist'' enterprise. 
 Some speakers were more restrained. Mr. Katznelson argued that the American public was for the most part maturing politically; that there had been no such generalized campaign of hatred; and that America was in the demanding position of having to be a key player in a century-long series of world crises. Mr. Sunstein, also measured, outlined some of the complexities of dealing with civil liberties in times of crisis and made specific proposals for checks and balances. 
 For the most part, though, fear of the administration was strenuously cultivated. 
 But wouldn't this fear also be vulnerable to accusations of manipulation? Or to assertions that it was stymieing rational thought? Or to claims that it distorted context and proportion? Why wasn't this conference, too, an abuse of fear? 
 Presumably because its instigators believed it justified; they believed they were correctly outlining fearsome manipulation and exaggeration. But that shows it is necessary to determine how justified fear is before judging its abuse. And that was the issue least well explored. By narrowly focusing on aspects of the Iraq war, most speakers treated the answer as evident: fear was unjustified. Even if that assessment is granted for the sake of argument, what of the larger context of the war on Islamist terror? Didn't the attacks of 9/11 involve something on a different scale than what the conference statement called a ''small, determined band of fanatics?'' Isn't that a crucial point? What kind of enemy is being faced? 
 There was a reluctance to use the concept of an enemy to refer to anything but domestic political opponents. This is similar to a problem described in Lee Harris's ''Civilization and Its Enemies: The Next Stage of History'' (Free Press, 2004), a new book that in its idiosyncratic brilliance and unrelentingly aggressive vision about the war on terror is bound to stir more controversy -- and fear -- than the New School conference. For we live, according to Mr. Harris, in a civilization with an intellectual culture that is reluctant to take the idea of an external enemy seriously; its enemies, though, have no such qualms.
 ''We are caught,'' Mr. Harris writes, ''in the midst of a conflict between those for whom the category of the enemy is essential to their way of organizing all human experience and those who have banished even the idea of the enemy form both public discourse and even their innermost thoughts.'' 
 For those prepared to accept even some of Mr. Harris's premises, there is nothing to fear but the lack of fear itself.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Connections column in Arts & Ideas on Saturday, about a conference at the New School University on fear, misidentified the journal that organized it. It is Social Research, not Social Text. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: World War II propaganda, much of it crude, used fear to galvanize the public. (Photo by Courtesy New School University) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); WRITERS (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LITERATURE (75%); TERRORISM (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); LITERARY CRITICISM (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); NEUROSCIENCE (64%) Terrorism; Conventions and Conferences; Fear; Books and Literature; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: New School University

PERSON: AL GORE (50%) Edward Rothstein; Lee Harris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



321 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Leaked Software Poses Challenges for Microsoft
The illicit distribution of portions of the secret programmer's instructions for two versions of the Windows operating system poses vexing legal and security challenges for Microsoft.
 Computer security experts said that having even relatively small parts of the blueprints for Microsoft's Windows 2000 and Windows NT operating system as easily available reference material for potential vandals could complicate the company's already thorny task in securing its software. [Page C2.]

U.S. Trade Deficit Largest in History
The United States trade deficit soared to a record of $489.4 billion last year. The trade gap, which is the value of foreign goods and services purchased in this country minus the amount of American goods and services sold overseas, is now the largest in history. [C3.]

French Drug Makers Alter Tactics
On Monday, Sanofi-Synthelabo will present annual results tailored to emphasize why it is a logical buyer of its larger rival Aventis. But Aventis, trying to fend off the $60 billion hostile bid, plans to go to the French court system to try to invalidate the approval of the offer by France's financial markets authority. [C3.]

The Power of Web Reviewers Grows
Thousands of book reviews posted on Amazon's United States Web site using generic signatures like ''a reader from New York'' were suddenly listed under their authors' real name on the company's Canada site this week. The glitch, which was fixed after reviewers complained, is the latest reminder that writers are wielding the ability to use reviews as a tool to promote or pan a book. [A1.]

Suit Filed Against Hollinger Group
Conrad M. Black filed a $644 million libel suit against members of a committee set up by Hollinger International, contending that they had defamed him by accusing him and his associates of improperly receiving $200 million in noncompete payments. [C3.]

Tax Evader Pleads Guilty
A leading promoter of the use of offshore bank accounts to escape taxes, Jerome Schneider, has pleaded guilty to one felony tax charge and can reduce his prison sentence by cooperating in the prosecution of his clients. [C4.]

Stocks Decline on Profit-Taking
A record trade deficit and a surprising drop in consumer confidence spurred profit-taking on Wall Street. The Nasdaq composite index fell 20.05 points, or 1 percent, to 2,053.56. The Nasdaq lost 10.45 points, for the week, its fourth consecutive down week. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 66.22 points, to 10,627.85. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 6.30 points, to 1,145.81. [C4.]

The University of Michigan's preliminary reading of consumer sentiment tumbled to 93.1 this month from January's 103.8 as Americans turned cautious over the economy. Economists had forecast a reading of 103.3. [C14.]

Patent for Celebrex Is Invalid
An appeals court upheld the dismissal of a multibillion-dollar lawsuit that contended that Pfizer impermissibly used a university's patent for the painkiller Celebrex. [C3.]

China Takes Several Financial Steps
China announced steps toward reform, including accelerating bank reorganization; slowing the growth of money supply; easing restrictions on the outflow of money and lending; and later, possibly altering China's exchange rate controls. [C3.]

Markets to Be Closed Monday
The stock market and other financial markets in the United States will be closed Monday in observance of Washington's Birthday.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,627.85 down 66.22Nasdaq composite -- 2,053.56 down 20.0510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.04% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2742 down 0.0062The dollar -- 105.43 yen up 0.10Graph tracks the daily closing price of Microsoft shares for the week.Graph tracks the weekly closing of The Nasdaq Composite since January 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GUILTY PLEAS (87%); LITIGATION (87%); TAKEOVERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); WRITERS (71%); TAX FRAUD (68%); SENTENCING (67%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (67%); FELONIES (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); APPROVALS (66%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (64%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (64%); LIBEL & SLANDER (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (93%); MICROSOFT CORP (91%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (93%); SANF (BIT) (93%); SAN (PAR) (93%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



322 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: What Runs In the Family Isn't Success

BYLINE: By EMILY EAKIN

 BODY:
Start with Hollywood -- say, the producers Bob and Harvey Weinstein, the filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen or Peter and Bobby Farrelly, or the actors Ben and Casey Affleck. Move on to the gossip columns, where Paris and Nicky Hilton and Janet and Michael Jackson are recurring fixations. And then consider politics, a field whose most prominent names include George W. and Jeb Bush; John, Robert and Edward Kennedy; and Jerry and Kathleen Brown.
 America, a quick survey of some of its most famous citizens suggests, is awash in successful siblings. Most people would hardly find that surprising. Success, it is commonly assumed, runs in families. Fairly or not, power, wealth and fame tend to accrue to members of the same clan, who have a natural interest in keeping their social and material advantages within the bloodline. 
 But just as celebrities and the superrich turn out to be exceptions to most social rules, says Dalton Conley, a sociologist and director of the Center for Advanced Social Science Research at New York University, they are in stark violation of the norm regarding sibling success. In his new book, ''The Pecking Order: Which Siblings Succeed and Why,'' to be published next month by Pantheon, Mr. Conley turns conventional wisdom on its head, arguing that pronounced economic disparities lie not just between families but within them. 
 His astonishing assertion: differences between families explain only 25 percent of the nation's income inequality; the remaining 75 percent is explained by differences between siblings. More typical of the United States than President Bush and his brother Jeb, the governor of Florida, he suggests, are the White House's previous tenant, Bill Clinton, and his half-brother, Roger, a college dropout, onetime cocaine dealer and failed musician. Or, for that matter, Jimmy Carter and his ne'er-do-well brother, Billy.
 ''There's this enormous issue of sibling inequality that we sweep under the rug because we want to see the family as a haven in a harsh world, operating outside the dog-eat-dog world of American capitalism,'' Mr. Conley said over breakfast at a cafe in the West Village, not far from his apartment. ''But you can't think of the family in isolation from larger social forces.'' 
 His statistics are startling, but he backs them up with a detailed (and occasionally opaque) analysis of three national data sets, including the 1990 United States Census, and 175 interviews with 75 families from around the country. And colleagues who have read his book -- or heard him present his findings -- are impressed. 
 ''Before he started on this project, I was quite skeptical,'' said Michael Hout, a sociologist at the University of California at Berkeley who specializes in social inequality. But he ended up giving the book a favorable review, which will appear in the spring issue of Contexts, a sociology journal. 
 ''What's really innovative and interesting'' about Mr. Conley's work, said Judith Stacey, a sociologist at New York University, ''is his focus on the family as a source of inequality rather than a respite from it. What he is trying to show is the way in which larger forms of social inequality operate through families and wind up being reproduced.'' 
 Just 34, Mr. Conley has acquired a reputation in his field as an original thinker with a knack for poking holes in disciplinary doctrine. His first book, ''Being Black, Living in the Red: Race, Wealth, and Social Policy in America'' (University of California Press, 1999), based on his prize-winning Ph.D. dissertation, proposed a novel approach to a much-debated conundrum: how to explain lagging black achievement rates in education and employment despite declines in overt discrimination and increasing income equality with whites? 
 The problem, he argued, was that social scientists were using the wrong data. When researchers compared blacks and whites at the same income level, they found gaps in black achievement. Mr. Conley showed that when data on accumulated net worth were used instead, the achievement gaps disappeared. The obstacle to racial equality, he argued, wasn't just racism but wealth: the typical white family has eight times the assets of the typical black family. 
 Mr. Conley cites his own family as a case in point. Shy, earnest and boyishly slight, with an endearingly lopsided grin, he grew up on food stamps on Manhattan's Lower East Side, one of the few white kids in a predominantly Latino and black housing project. While many of his peers dropped out of school and ended up in jail, Mr. Conley, the son of bohemian parents who were born middle class, attended some of the best local public schools and went on to a prestigious college and graduate school. His unusual childhood was the subject of his second book, ''Honky'' (University of California Press, 2000), which he calls ''a sociological memoir.'' 
 ''I'm the exception that proves the rule about race and class,'' he said. 
 Now, with his new book on siblings, Mr. Conley is once again challenging some of his field's basic assumptions about inequality. Typical studies of the issue have relied on comparisons of entire households and social groups rather than individual family members. After all, researchers have reasoned, families share genes, resources and a common living environment; how important can sibling differences be, compared with larger social obstacles to economic success like education, race and class? 
 On the rare occasions when sociologists have looked inside the family, they have tended to chalk up the disparities they have found there to luck -- as Christopher Jencks and his colleagues did in the 1972 book ''Inequality'' -- or to measurement error. 
 For the most part, however, sibling differences have been relegated to the realm of personality and left to psychologists, who have made some intriguing findings. For example, several studies have found that considerable personality differences between siblings remain after traits with clear genetic bases are accounted for, leading some scholars to conclude that siblings are little more alike than people from different families.
 This research has prompted a flurry of debate and speculation, including a cottage industry of books and articles trumpeting birth order as the secret to sibling difference. Dating to the 19th-century British eugenicist Sir Francis Galton, who in an 1874 study of leading English scientists noted that a surprising number of them were firstborns, the idea that sibling rank shapes adult personality attained the status of folk wisdom in the late 1990's after Frank J. Sulloway, a historian of science, published the controversial best seller ''Born to Rebel: Birth Order, Family Dynamics and Creative Lives'' (Pantheon, 1996). Thick with anecdotes, case studies and statistics, the book purported to show the Darwinian logic by which firstborns grow up to be rule-abiding conformists and political leaders, while later-borns become rebellious innovators and revolutionaries. 
 Birth order research continues to proliferate today, championed as a tool that might help parents predict everything from what position their second-born will play on the football team to the likelihood that he or she will embrace religion or suffer from asthma. More sobering, a number of studies have found a link between birth order, family size and I.Q., suggesting that with each additional sibling there is a corresponding drop in intelligence.
 But many of these claims are vigorously disputed. In a recent article in the journal American Psychologist, for example, Joseph Lee Rodgers, a psychologist at the University of Oklahoma, and three colleagues argued that the birth order-I.Q. research was flawed because it was based on comparisons of siblings from different families. When siblings from the same family are compared, the scholars wrote, the correlation disappears. Large families do not produce less intelligent children, Mr. Rodgers and his colleagues concluded. Rather, parents with lower I.Q.'s have tended to have larger families. 
 Mr. Conley is deeply skeptical of birth order theory, calling it ''next after astrological signs as people's favorite folk explanation for why things turn out.'' But more generally, he argues that personality differences are inadequate to explain disparities in sibling success. ''The link between personality and social and economic outcomes is relatively weak in a complex society such as ours,'' he said. ''Take football coaches. You can be reserved and authoritarian like Tom Landry or gregarious like Bill Parcells. Both are successful.'' 
 Success, as Mr. Conley defines it, depends on several standard sociological measures: educational attainment, occupational prestige, income and net worth. Because earnings for American workers typically peak between age 45 and 50, he geared his interviews and analysis to siblings in mid-career. And while his conclusions -- that everything from parental job loss or divorce to race and family size can affect siblings differently -- don't lend themselves to catchy headlines, they arguably provide a more nuanced portrait of internal family dynamics than all-purpose explanations like birth order. 
 Some of his more provocative findings concern middle-borns. In families with three or more children, Mr. Conley says, middle offspring are less likely to receive financial support for their education and may do less well in school than their older and younger siblings. The chances that a second child will attend private school drop by 25 percent with the birth of a third, Mr. Conley found, and the likelihood that he or she will be held back a year increased severalfold. Unlike typical first- and last-borns, he reasons, middle children never experience family life as an only child; instead, they are forced to compete with their siblings for money and attention. (In this sense, he concedes, birth order does matter: not as a psychological variable but as a constraint on family resources.)
 Other findings seem to confirm common-sense intuitions. According to Mr. Conley's analysis, for example, women are more likely to be as successful as their brothers if their mothers worked outside the home. And, like the long-suffering George Bailey in ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' the oldest child still at home at the time of a parental death or divorce is more likely than younger siblings to endure negative socioeconomic consequences as a result. Brothers and sisters may even experience race differently, he argues, since skin color can vary considerably within the same family.
 In the end, the intricacy of Mr. Conley's analysis can almost seem a liability. ''The Pecking Order'' is so stocked with case studies and theoretical assertions that it is tempting to conclude that there may be nearly as many factors affecting sibling success as there are siblings in the world. 
 But Mr. Conley has a ready defense. ''Anyone who's going to sell you on one variable is selling you a bottle of snake oil,'' he said. ''Families and societies are just too complex for that.'' 
 However complicated, he added, his research has practical implications for parents. For example, thanks in part to his findings on middle-borns, he said, he was no longer considering having a third child. 
 ''I've got one of each sex,'' he said. ''I'm satisfied with two.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Celebrity siblings: top, Roger Clinton and Bill Clinton
left, Gov. Jeb Bush and President Bush
below from the left, Paris Hilton and Nicky Hilton
Wynonna Judd and Ashley Judd. (Photo by Top and bottom right, Associated Press
center, Agence France-Presse
bottom left, European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. B9)
Top, Jimmy Carter, left, and his brother, Billy, at Billy Carter's gas station in Plains, Ga., in 1976
above, the sociologist Dalton Conley, who has studied sibling differences, with his daughter, E, and son, Yo. (Photo by Ren Clement for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); TRENDS (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); LITERATURE (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); COCAINE (63%) Families and Family Life; Books and Literature; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BOB WEINSTEIN (88%); PARIS HILTON (88%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (73%); TED KENNEDY (56%); JIMMY CARTER (56%) Dalton Conley; Emily Eakin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



323 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; Health Aides Who Get Sick Days?

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Ownership Is Good for Co-op Workers, but Union Complicates Mix

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Using a wheelchair since a gunshot wound 34 years ago, Wilfredo Graulau admits that most mornings he sinks into a funk and would undoubtedly remain there if not for Margarita's arrival.
 Around 11 each morning, Margarita Pillot arrives at his cluttered South Bronx apartment and makes him coffee, prepares his lunch, checks his blood pressure and chats with him about city politics, the bitter winter, whatever. Slowly, her warmth and conversation pull him out of his rut.
 ''By 10:30, 11 each day, I'm feeling depressed, thinking that I should be out somewhere, and that's when she starts talking to me, and I start feeling better,'' said Mr. Graulau, a retired computer instructor at the Fashion Institute of Technology. 
 As a home health aide, Ms. Pillot has one of the nation's most invisible jobs, a low-wage position caring for the ill and infirm inside their homes. Her job, which involves cooking, cleaning and doing simple medical tests, has its ups and downs. She complained, for instance, that one home care agency where she worked gave her little training, did not pay her when she was out sick and did not provide health insurance.
 ''There were no benefits, no nothing,'' Ms. Pillot said. ''They didn't care about you, and if you had a family problem, like my son having asthma, you had to take care of it yourself.''
 But she is far happier since she landed a job with one of the nation's most successful worker-owned companies, a home health agency in the South Bronx that has won widespread acclaim for how it treats its 780 employees. Her agency, Cooperative Home Care Associates, is unusual not just because it is employee-owned -- workers can buy one share of the company -- but also because many management analysts and health care professionals are studying it as a model for other low-wage workers.
 ''The worker is at the center of everything we do,'' said Michael Elsas, Cooperative's president. ''Everything else revolves around that.''
 Cooperative generally pays its workers 20 percent more than other New York home care agencies do. Its workers get $6.80 to $9.50 per hour, with the average at $8.60. It gives aides comprehensive health insurance and what is considered the best training program in the business, providing at least four weeks of training (most agencies provide two weeks). 
 Many home care agencies charge new employees $300 for training, while Cooperative provides it free, an important sweetener considering that two-thirds of its aides used to be on welfare. 
 Cooperative subsidizes its employees if they want to take college courses to become nurses. It guarantees aides at least 30 hours of work a week, while many other agencies give their aides only 15 or 20 hours, far too little for them to live on. 
 If Cooperative's workers arrive late to their home care cases because of child-care problems, the agency's counselors help employees track down child care. When workers have a complaint, they can easily arrange a one-on-one meeting with Cooperative's president. 
 ''I worked at other agencies where you didn't feel any sense of unity, where you felt like just an employee, where you got your paycheck and just went to your cases,'' said Sabrina Horry, a Cooperative employee for four years. ''Here it's more like family. They have things that make you feel good about yourself. You always have someone to talk to if there's a problem. You feel if you have a problem, you don't go home and you're by yourself.'' 
 One sign of Cooperative's success is that it has doubled in size in four years. State and federally financed home care providers like assigning cases to the agency because only 22 percent of its workers leave each year compared with 60 percent at many other agencies -- meaning that Cooperative's caregivers provide more experience and continuity to patients.
 Cooperative, which primarily serves patients in the Bronx, is so respected that a Brooklyn home care agency with 175 health aides recently announced plans to ally itself with it. That agency, Care at Home Diocese of Brooklyn, will copy Cooperative's training program and may also convert to employee ownership.
 ''This industry can be very close to a sweatshop industry and degenerates into it in more instances than people are aware of,'' said Thomas A. O'Brien, the founder of Care at Home. ''We thought it made sense to form an alliance with Cooperative because we have a similar mission in terms of treating home-care workers with respect and trying to do the right thing for them economically.''
 Cooperative's managers say they are able to pay higher wages than other agencies because other agencies pay so much in profits to a handful of owners, and because Cooperative's management salaries are lower than at other agencies. In addition, Cooperative's lower turnover rate means it does not have to spend as much to train a constant stream of new workers. In addition, foundations finance much of Cooperative's training efforts.
 All is not perfect at Cooperative, however. Workers frequently complain that the board members they elect are too tight-fisted about raises and bonuses. The health aides elect eight of the agency's 12 board members, and this worker-controlled board sets wages, benefits, end-of-year bonuses and dividends and the annual contribution to the workers' 401(k) plans.
 ''We'd definitely like a better salary,'' said Ms. Pillot, who earns $7.25 an hour. ''It's really hard when you have to pay $700 rent for your apartment.''
 Workers on the board say they have learned that they cannot pay as much as employees might like because federal and state reimbursement rates for home care are limited. In addition, board members say that devoting too much of Cooperative's $17 million in annual revenues to wages and bonuses could jeopardize its finances and future.
 Over one five-year stretch, the board voted no raises because Albany and Washington were tightening home care reimbursements. During this period, workers often lambasted the board members, but they recognized that the worker-owners on the board were not receiving raises either.
 ''Worker ownership gives you a voice in the company,'' said Joann Poue, a longtime board member who mentors younger aides. ''When you're a worker-owner you have to understand what it means to be a worker and owner. You share in the good, and you share in the not so good.'' 
 Rick Surpin, the board's chairman, praised the workers' occasional willingness to put aside their desire for raises and bonuses.
 ''The economic literature says workers are inherently stupid and selfish, but that has not played out here,'' he said. ''They've consistently made decisions that they care about the longevity of the company and its long-term ability to pay better wages and benefits.''
 Mr. Surpin founded Cooperative in 1985 after writing his thesis about alternatives to nursing homes. He said it made sense to create a worker-owned home care cooperative, rather than a traditional profit-making or nonprofit company. 
 ''I realized that nonprofits and for-profits treated their workers equally badly,'' he said. ''For-profits did it because it was the way to make money, while nonprofits did it because for them their workers didn't count and their patients and professional staff counted a lot more.''
 In a twist, Cooperative's workers opted last year to join 1199/SEIU, the state's largest health care union, largely because they were impressed by the union's success in lobbying Albany for more home care dollars.
 So now the union representing health workers is supposed to bargain with the company owned by health workers. That makes management uneasy, and not only because Cooperative already provides better wages and benefits than most other agencies. Mr. Surpin warns that it might be hard for Cooperative to adhere to multiyear pacts and to match percentage raises given by agencies that pay less.
 ''We present a problem for the union, and the union presents a problem for us,'' Mr. Surpin said. ''But the union has come to see that we're dead serious about doing what's best for the workers.''
 Officials at 1199 agree that it can be an awkward pas de deux. 
 Celeste Garcia feels blessed that she works for Cooperative, having left her secretarial job to become a health aide. ''I wanted something with a humanitarian theme,'' she said, adding that she was also pleased to find a job that provided health insurance, sick days and paid vacations. 
 She praised Cooperative's training program, which she said taught her not only how to identify many diseases but also what to do if a patient has a heart attack, stroke or seizure. For three years, she has taken care of Marilyn McDowell, a 44-year-old former nurse who suffered a stroke that paralyzed her right side. Ms. McDowell also has diabetes, high blood pressure and seizures.
 On a typical day, Ms. Garcia cooks and cleans, and she feeds Ms. McDowell's cat. She sometimes bakes with Ms. McDowell and often takes her to doctors' appointments. She has learned to interpret Ms. McDowell's gestures when she has a seizure. 
 ''She knows exactly what to say to the doctor if I can't speak for myself,'' Ms. McDowell said. ''Celeste takes care of me very well and she's a great friend. She's a godsend.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wilfredo Graulau being cared for by Margarita Pillot in his apartment.
Maria Soto, an associate instructor, conducting a training program for employees of Cooperative Home Care Associates. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Celeste Garcia, left, helps Marilyn McDowell, 44, a former nurse who had a stroke, with medication at her home in the Bronx. At left, Michael Elsas, president of Cooperative Home Care Associates. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (87%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (86%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (71%); POLITICS (71%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); FAMILY (68%) Medicine and Health; Labor; Organized Labor; Company and Organization Profiles; Industry Profiles; Home Health Care; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: COOPERATIVE HOME CARE ASSOCIATES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) Cooperative Home Care Associates (NYC); Service Employees International Union

INDUSTRY: SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



324 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Owes Firm $100,000, A Judge Says

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
An interim judge awaiting final confirmation to the bench told the state's Judiciary Committee on Friday that Gov. John G. Rowland, who nominated him for the post, owed his firm $100,000 in legal fees.
 The testimony came at one of two hearings on Friday that lawmakers say should weigh heavily on the impeachment inquiry by the investigating House committee. At the other hearing, the State Ethics Commission said that public officials in Connecticut cannot accept expensive gifts from public employees or contractors, though the panel did not refer specifically to Mr. Rowland. 
 But the hearing of the Judiciary Committee drew the most attention. At the hearing, the judge, James K. Robertson Jr., said he and his firm had provided 600 additional hours of free legal work for Mr. Rowland, dating from before he took office in 1994.
 In detailing Mr. Rowland's debt of $100,000 to the firm, Carmody & Torrance, Judge Robertson said the firm expected payment. But Judge Robertson acknowledged that when the fees were arranged, Mr. Rowland's financial prospects were different. ''At the time, it was thought Governor Rowland had a very bright future following his years of public service,'' Judge Robertson said.
 Judge Robertson described himself as a Democrat who came to know Mr. Rowland, a Republican, because of a shared interest in urban politics and urban renewal.
 The testimony of Judge Robertson and that of another interim judge, Joseph A. Mengacci, who described being host to Vermont ski weekends for the governor and his family, is the latest episode that raises questions about benefits Mr. Rowland has received since he became governor.
 Mr. Rowland and his wife have already been ordered to release documents that showed they received thousands of dollars of free work on their vacation home from people at the center of a federal investigation into corruption in the awarding of state contracts.
 In his testimony, Judge Robertson, a Yale graduate with degrees in theology, said he volunteered free or reduced rate legal services for Mr. Rowland for the first time in 1994, when a local newspaper sought to have a police record involving the governor unsealed.
 Later, Judge Robertson said he and his firm charged and provided free legal advice on everything from Mr. Rowland's ethics violation for accepting concert tickets to ''stories that arose in the newspaper involving the governor in some way.''
 Judge Robertson did not dispute news reports that his former firm received $5 million in state work in the nine years Mr. Rowland has been in office. The firm did not seek state work, he said, until the 1980's. It was not until Mr. Rowland took office that the firm started to receive state work, Gail K. Hamm, a committee member, noted during a break.
 At one point, Ms. Hamm asked about Mr. Rowland's reaction to the free work. ''He didn't ask you, 'Why have I never gotten a bill?''' Ms. Hamm asked.
 ''No,'' Judge Robertson said. ''I told him I'd serve as litigation counsel once he was elected.'' Judge Robertson later explained that he offered to serve on a voluntary basis. 
 The judge who testified about the ski trips, Judge Mengacci, whose wife works in the governor's office, described a long friendship with Mr. Rowland that includes shared gifts and vacations.
 ''Nothing was ever given to John Rowland at any time that was any different from any other friend because he was governor of the state of Connecticut,'' Judge Mengacci said.
 At its hearing earlier in the day, the State Ethics Commission unanimously approved the release of an amended opinion by its director on gifts to public officials. Representative James A. Amann, a Democrat who has been harshly critical of Mr. Rowland, sought the opinion in December, after Mr. Rowland admitted he lied about receiving gifts and free work on his Litchfield cottage.
 The amended position will not include any direct reference to Mr. Rowland but will include a provision that public officials cannot receive gifts from anyone seeking to do business with the state, regardless of whether the contract passes through the official's office.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge James K. Robertson detailing Gov. John G. Rowland's debt to his law firm in testimony before Connecticut's Judiciary Committee. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (75%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RELIGION (65%) Ethics; Courts; Appointments and Executive Changes; Governors (US)

PERSON: Stacey Stowe; John G (Gov) Rowland; James K (Judge) Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



325 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Index for February Shows Drop in Consumer Confidence

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Consumer sentiment took an unexpectedly sharp fall in early February as Americans turned cautious over the economy, a survey showed yesterday. 
 The University of Michigan's preliminary reading of consumer sentiment tumbled to 93.1 this month from January's final reading of 103.8, which was its highest level in more than three years, according to market sources who saw the report. 
 That was way below economists' forecasts of 103.3 and confirmed market speculation that the figure would be sharply lower. 
 ''It is kind of a stunner,'' said Chris Low, chief economist for FTN Financial in New York. ''A 10-point drop in the confidence index is significant and suggests there is a new pessimism among consumers that was not there a month ago. I suspect it has something to do with three surprisingly weak employment reports in a row.'' 
 The current conditions index fell to 100.4 from 109.5 in January, while the expectations index dropped to 88.4 from a final reading of 100.1 last month. 
 Analysts say a wobbly jobs sector has dampened consumer confidence despite a strengthening economy. 
 Some, however, have cautioned against reading too much into the report, because it has no bearing on actual spending patterns of consumers. But the dip in consumer sentiment is troubling at this stage of the recovery, analysts agree. Consumer spending leads to business spending, which leads to more jobs. 
 The University of Michigan survey is based on telephone interviews with 500 households over the course of the month on personal finances and business and buying conditions. 
 The preliminary survey, released about midway through the month, is based on the first 250 interviews. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%) University of Michigan

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



326 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Cyprus Greeks and Turks Agree On Plan to End 40-Year Conflict

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders on Friday accepted Secretary General Kofi Annan's plan for ending the decades-long division of Cyprus and pledged to negotiate reunification in time for the island's May 1 entry into the European Union.
 The deal between the Greek Cypriot president, Tassos Papadopoulos, and his Turkish Cypriot counterpart, Rauf Denktash, was reached after three days of talks at the United Nations, and brought forth expressions of hope that a solution to one of the world's most intractable conflicts was at hand. 
 ''I really believe that after 40 years, a political settlement is at last in reach,'' Mr. Annan said in announcing the pact. 
 Thomas G. Weston, the United States special coordinator for Cyprus since 1999, said, ''It is almost certain now that there will be a settlement on the island of Cyprus.''
 Interviewed after meeting with Mr. Annan, he said: ''There have been numerous attempts in the past, and they all led to failure until today. Now we have the procedure and methodology which has given us exceptionally strong prospects to reach agreement before Cyprus enters the European Union.''
 If successful, the plan will put an end to a stalemate that on a number of occasions brought Greece and Turkey, both NATO members, to the verge of war and, in 1974, to a conflict that ended with the division of the island.
 With Cyprus scheduled to join the European Union on May 1, pressures to end the standoff grew increasingly intense. Unless reunification was achieved, only the Greek Cypriot government would be entitled to enter.
 That reality focused negotiators, with Turkey in particular lending strong backing to the last-ditch effort, well aware that failure in Cyprus would jeopardize its own active candidacy to become the first Muslim nation to join the union. 
 Mr. Annan had invested substantial personal capital in breaking the impasse on the Mediterranean island, and the arrangement makes him the final binding arbiter of any last-minute disagreements on what is known as ''the Annan plan.''
 According to the plan, the two sides will reconvene on Thursday in Cyprus under a tight timetable calling for them to agree by March 22 on reunification language that can be put to simultaneous island-wide referendums in April.
 Technical committees on laws and treaties will work out details, also starting next week, and the United Nations will preside over a separate committee on the financial and economic aspects of reunification.
 If the two parties are unable to reach agreement themselves, the pact calls for Turkey and Greece to enter the talks. If differences still persist by March 29, Mr. Annan will have the power ''to fill in the blanks,'' according to United Nations diplomats. The proposed date of the referendums is April 21.
 ''Very much as a last resort, the secretary general, with reluctance, will have the last word,'' said Alvaro de Soto, the Peruvian diplomat who is Mr. Annan's special adviser on Cyprus and who will lead next week's talks. He said he believed that the parties had the will and resources to complete the settlement themselves, and he ''devoutly'' hoped that Mr. Annan's intervention would not be necessary.
 Hostilities between Cyprus's Greek and Turkish populations have required United Nations peacekeepers on the island since 1964 and led to formal division in 1974, when Turkey seized the island's northern third in response to a pro-Greek coup seeking to unify Cyprus with Greece. In 1983, the breakaway state became the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, recognized internationally only by Turkey, which keeps 30,000 troops there.
 An intensive round of reunification talks under Mr. Annan last year produced a United Nations blueprint for a single state with Greek and Turkish Cypriot federated regions, but it collapsed in April when Mr. Denktash refused to put it to a vote of his people and balked at the appointment of Mr. Annan as a final arbiter.
 Last week, the secretary general invited the two sides to New York to make a last try before the pending European Union entry, and he received strong outside backing from the United States, a supporter of Turkey's European aspirations, and the three so-called guarantor nations: Greece, Turkey and Britain.
 ''The agreement is the result of cooperative efforts among the parties, particularly Greece and Turkey, who have not always exercised such cooperative efforts in the past,'' Mr. Weston said. He confirmed reports that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell had been in direct contact with the principal parties in recent days as the talks appeared to falter.
 Mr. Denktash, accused of obstructionism in the past, surprised the negotiators by dropping his objection to Mr. Annan's role as final judge and by saying his main demand was more active involvement in the later stages by Turkey and Greece. ''We were impressed this time that there was a different mind-set,'' Mr. de Soto said.
 But Mr. Papadopoulos came back with a demand that the European Union itself become an active participant in the talks, a request that was dismissed as meddlesome by the Turkish side.
 Athens, Ankara, London and Washington engaged in busy overnight diplomacy, and a European Union official in Brussels said Friday that they had no interest in becoming directly involved, thus taking the air out of the Greek Cypriot proposal.
 The statement read by Mr. Annan on Friday promised only ''assurances of the European Union to accommodate a settlement and the offer of technical assistance by the European Commission.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''One Cyprus''The division and reunification of Cyprus.1960 -- Independence from Britain with a powersharing constitution between Turkish and Greek Cypriots.1964 -- Power-sharing crumbles amid fighting
government formed without Turkish Cypriots. U.N. peacekeeping force is sent.1967 -- Military seizes power in Greece.1974 -- Greek military junta backs coup against Greek Cypriot president
 after the coup collapses, Turkish forces occupy the northern third of the island.1975 -- Turkey declares territory Turkish Federated State of Cyprus.1983 -- Turkish Cypriot leader, Rauf Denktash, declares the breakaway state, the Turkish Republic of northern Cyprus. It is recognized only by Turkey.1998 -- Government of Cyprus begins European Union accession talks.1999-2000 -- U.N.-led talks end without a clear outcome.2002 -- Reunification talks fail. U.N. presents peace plan calling for a single state with federated Greek and Turkish regions.2003 -- U.N. deadline for plan passes without result. Cyprus signs accession treaty with European Union for entry on May 1, 2004.2004 -- The Turkish Cypriot enclaves new government wins a vote of confidence, setting the stage for a push to end the division.YESTERDAY -- Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot leaders accept a U.N. plan for reunifying Cyprus.(pg. A8)Map of Cyprus highlighting the areas to be reunified. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); POLITICS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); REFERENDUMS (60%) Politics and Government; Islam

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) United Nations; European Union

PERSON: Warren Hoge; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Tassos (Pres) Papadopoulos; Rauf (Pres) Denktash

GEOGRAPHIC: CYPRUS (99%); GREECE (95%); EUROPE (94%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Cyprus; Greece; Turkey; Europe; Cyprus

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



327 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6; Reporter's Notebook

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Is Making the Political Personal, Some Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Speaking to reporters outside an airport here last week, Gov. John G. Rowland said earnestly, ''Any time you go through a crisis or calamity, people, especially family members, can really come together in support.''
 He was talking about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But it was impossible for some listeners not to hear a sly echo of the governor's own calamity and crisis. 
 In recent weeks, Mr. Rowland has struggled to steer the subject away from his own difficulties, which began in December when he admitted to having lied about receiving gifts and free work at his lakeside cottage from people doing business with the state. He appears several times a week at schools and community centers throughout the state, delivering upbeat messages about new grants and programs. He talks about the budget. He struggles, in short, to impersonate his old self.
 But with Mr. Rowland's political fate hanging in the balance, even his most mundane comments can sound like a series of winking double entendres, at least to the pack of reporters who follow him everywhere he goes. 
 Often the echoes are just coincidence. At other times Mr. Rowland seems to play along, inserting phrases that hint at his difficulties. And once in a while, the governor's words suggest a headlong Freudian stumble into the very topic he is so desperate to avoid.
 During last week's State of the State address, for instance, the governor said nothing about the topic that was on everyone's mind, sticking instead to a cheerful script about economic recovery and neatly trimmed budgets. One Democratic legislator scowled throughout, as if to tell Mr. Rowland he was not fooled. Others refused to clap or stand up during the applause lines.
 It wasn't until the end of the speech that Mr. Rowland began speaking suggestively about the ''difficult times'' the state had been through. He was referring to the bad economy of recent years, but the words raised a few eyebrows. 
 ''Adversity can beat you down or it can make you stronger,'' the governor said, just before concluding. At that point his wife, Patricia Rowland, smiled for the first time since the speech had begun.
 No sooner had the speech ended than reporters and legislators began talking about what the governor meant, and how he expected to be heard.
 ''I thought that line was absolutely about his personal situation,'' said Representative Michael P. Lawlor, a Democrat who is a member of the House impeachment panel. ''I think he's clearly wearing his emotions on his sleeve these days.'' 
 Sometimes reporters are the only ones who hear anything amiss in the governor's language. Two weeks ago, at a community center in Waterbury - the governor's hometown -- he told a gathering, ''You've got to raise expectations for children and for ourselves.'' The line was about higher educational standards, but it drew snickers from the press.
 On at least one occasion, though, the governor virtually dared his listeners not to see a double significance in what he was saying. Last month at a conference on adolescent substance abuse, Mr. Rowland told a group of social workers that ''humiliation and rejection'' were far too prominent in current television programs and newspaper stories.
 As it happened, many of that day's newspaper stories were about the governor's plummeting public support and a public call for his resignation by Representative Christopher Shays, a fellow Republican and friend.
 ''Humiliation and rejection is becoming the core of our society,'' Mr. Rowland said as the reporters stared in amazement.
 A few minutes later, the governor remarked that people of his generation had difficulty talking with their children about their own drug use.
 ''Patty was honest with the kids one day,'' he said. ''I was not.''
 Given that lying is what got the governor in trouble, that, too, was an odd thing to say.
 But perhaps strangest of all was Mr. Rowland's insistence on reading a series of inspirational mantras that an admirer had e-mailed to him, titled ''Anyway.'' 
 ''Give the world the best you have, and you'll get kicked in the teeth,'' the governor read, in one of several similar verses. ''Give the world the best you have anyway.''
 Under the circumstances, the lines were bound to be seen -- by some people -- as a self-pitying statement about the governor's own condition rather than as a self-help message for teenagers.
 In a bizarre coda, one of the governor's aides later e-mailed reporters the full text of the message, which revealed that Mr. Rowland had left out two lines.
 ''Honesty and frankness make you vulnerable,'' the lines read. ''Be honest and frank anyway.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Ethics; Governors (US); Politics and Government

PERSON: John G (Gov) Rowland; Robert F Worth

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



328 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: A Triumph for Big Sugar

 BODY:
America's sugar growers may not be competitive in the global marketplace, but they know how to play in Washington. The sugar lobby has managed to exempt its product from a free trade deal with Australia, a triumph that comes at the expense of American consumers and the nation's broader trade agenda, not to mention the world's poor. 
 The agreement was reached last weekend, after Australia gave up on its demands that its farmers be given unfettered access to American beef, dairy and sugar markets. The Australians won minor concessions on the dairy and beef fronts, but nothing on sugar. A system of quotas restricts the amount of sugar imported into the United States, inflating domestic prices. Americans pay as much as three times the world price, which is one reason candy manufacturers have had to export thousands of jobs in recent years. 
 Robert Zoellick, the United States trade representative, had earlier faced down the sugar lobby -- an alliance of Florida cane growers and Midwestern sugar beet farmers -- when he agreed to include sugar as part of the proposed Central American Free Trade Agreement. Central American nations' quotas (the amount they can sell in the United States) will moderately rise over time.
 The deal with Australia is a huge setback in the process of liberalizing global agricultural trade. Poor nations whose only viable exports are agricultural goods are hampered by excessive protectionism. And by making a deal with Australia that leaves out sugar, Washington has jeopardized chances for meaningful progress on a hemispheric Free Trade Area of the Americas, and the latest round of negotiations at the World Trade Organization. As part of this effort to lower trade barriers, developing countries are rightly insisting that rich nations stop subsidizing their farmers and open up their markets to competition.
 The agreement sends a chilling message to the rest of the world. Even when dealing with an allied nation with similar living standards, the administration, under pressure from the Congress, has opted to continue coddling the sugar lobby, rather than dropping the most indefensible form of protectionism. This will only embolden the case of those around the world who argue that globalization is a rigged game. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR FARMING (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (90%); SUGAR BEET FARMING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); BEEF (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); BEET SUGAR MFG (75%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (54%) Sugar; Editorials; Free Ports and Trading Zones; Import Quotas; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lobbying and Lobbyists; Protectionism (Trade); International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sugar; Third World and Developing Countries

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AUSTRALIA (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



329 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Reaches A Record $489.4 Billion

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit soared to a record of $489.4 billion last year, according to a federal report released on Friday, raising concerns about the problems such a large gap could create.
 The deficit, which is the difference between the value of foreign goods and services purchased in this country and the amount of American goods and services sold overseas, is now the largest in history. 
 As a percent of gross domestic product, the goods and services deficit increased to 4.5 percent from 4 percent in 2002. 
 Despite a variety of reactions to some of the underlying patterns in the trade report, concern about the size of the deficit was almost uniform. 
 ''This is not only a record, it is a record by a great deal,'' said Richard J. DeKaser, an economist at National City Corporation.
 ''We are developing a great reliance on foreign capital to pay for our debt,'' Mr. DeKaser said, ''and it is clear that foreigners are losing confidence, that there is a greater reluctance to finance our trade deficit.''
 To finance its trade deficits, the United States has been borrowing record amounts from foreign investors and banks. The risk is that foreign investors could balk at continuing to lend the money needed just to finance that deficit. That has not been a problem so far amid very low interest rates.
 The International Monetary Fund warned in a report last month that, given the ballooning trade deficit, the United States risked a loss in foreign confidence and that a quick, uncontrolled drop in the dollar could upset world markets.
 The danger, according to the I.M.F. report, is that America's voracious appetite for borrowing could push up global interest rates and thus slow global investment and economic growth. 
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, added his voice to these concerns, telling the House Committee on Financial Services earlier this month that ''given the already substantial accumulation of dollar-denominated debt, foreign investors, both private and official, may become less willing to absorb ever-growing claims on U.S. residents.''
 The persistent rise in the trade deficit has confounded experts.
 It shot up during the recent recession and even accompanied the decline in the dollar, which fell 14 percent against a trade-weighted basket of 40 currencies. 
 Traditional economic theory holds that such events should trim a trade deficit.
 ''The easy answers of slower growth or letting the dollar decline aren't working, so the crisis is much deeper,'' said Robert L. Borosage, director of the Campaign for America's Future, a liberal public policy group. ''You can't sustain a deficit of 5 percent of your G.D.P. indefinitely.'' 
 The 2003 trade gap included the poorest performance ever in goods. The deficit for goods was $549.4 billion, the highest on record. Services, which is the brightest side of the trade balance, showed a surplus of $60 billion, but the smallest surplus since 1992.
 Robert E. Scott, director for trade studies at the Economic Policy Institute, said the human consequences of the rising trade deficit could be seen in the reconfiguration of the job market.
 ''As a consequence of the trade deficit,'' Mr. Scott said, ''people are being pushed out of well-paying jobs with benefits in manufacturing and into the poor-paying service jobs, often with no benefits.''
 The United States deficit with China rose to a record $124 billion and to $94.3 billion with the European Union. It shrank by $4 billion with Japan, to $66 billion.
 The deficit with China received the most attention. Imports from China are 5.7 times the value of American exports to China, a gap that many experts say is caused by China's refusal to float its currency and to allow the price of its exports to rise.
 For the month of December, the trade gap widened by 11 percent. Imports rose by 3 percent and were led by purchasers of capital goods and industrial materials.
 Several economists found reason for optimism in the December report saying that the weaker dollar was boosting exports as expected.
 Manufactured exports increased 3 percent last year after two years of decline.
 ''With the value of the dollar now at its 30-year average and economic growth picking up abroad, I expect growing export opportunities,'' said David Heuther, chief economist of the National Association of Manufacturers.
 For the full year, United States imports rose by $98.3 billion from 2002, with industrial supplies, petroleum products, consumer goods and capital goods leading the list.
 Exports grew by $30.9 billion, with industrial supplies, consumer goods, foods, feeds and beverages accounting for the increase.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Dec. 2003Balance: -$42.48Imports: 132.85Exports: 90.37Graph tracks imports and exports from July 2002 to December 2003.Graph tracks deficit (12-month moving average) from July 2002 to December 2003.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (69%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%) Commerce Department; European Union

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (53%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%) China; Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



330 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: China Takes Steps Toward Overhaul of Its Financial System

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Addressing what the country's president has described as a risk-laden financial system, China announced a series of halting steps toward reform throughout the week.
 Economic officials in China concluded three days of talks on Friday that brought together mostly government officials in charge of banks, insurers and the stock market and signaled a faster tempo of action in these areas, China watchers said. The measures that officials endorsed included accelerating bank reorganization; slowing the growth of money supply and lending; easing restrictions on the outflow of money; and later, possibly altering China's exchange rate controls, according to official Chinese news reports.
 It may be months before the specifics of the plans are determined, but several economists interviewed said this week's announcements seemed to signal the beginning of a new, deeper round of financial changes. 
 ''Now policy is running against a deadline and there seems to be a feeling of urgency among policy makers,'' Huang Yiping, an economist with Citigroup in Hong Kong, said. ''In the past, gradual change was preferred. But we also need to see what material difference these decisions will make.''
 Maintaining China's vigorous economic growth -- 9.9 percent last year -- while defusing the risks inherent in its debt-heavy banks and immature insurance and equity markets will be a tough juggling act, he and other experts said. And it will be complicated by international pressure on China to loosen its peg to the dollar. An American delegation is due in Beijing later this month for talks on China's exchange rate policies.
 Government officials expressed their concerns about the imbalances in China's economy as the conference began.
 ''Under China's present system, if things are badly handled, financial risks may spark government fiscal risks,'' President Hu Jintao said before the talks. ''Guarding against financial risk must be taken up as a major issue for national security,'' he added. His comments appeared on Friday in a mainland-controlled Hong Kong newspaper, Wen Hui Pao. 
 ''Money and credit have been growing too fast,'' Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, told the meeting in a blunt opening address on Wednesday. ''The structure of credit is irrational and the financial system carries many problems and perilous risks.''
 The new push to shape up China's banks and financial institutions is in part a response to World Trade Organization rules requiring China to open its banking and insurance markets to foreign investors by 2007. The more immediate catalyst was growing fear that overheated investment and loose credit would smother China's banks and its government under a new pile of failed investments and unrecoverable loans.
 The government this week announced plans to stanch new investment in industries like iron and steel, aluminum and concrete. Last year, investments in fixed assets like factories and real estate soared 26 percent to $662 billion, and bank loans jumped 21 percent. The government has ordered inspection teams to examine bank loans in potentially overheated sectors.
 The meeting this week also announced a series of other measures intended to slow bank credit and investment this year. The president of China's central bank, Zhou Xiaochuan, said the broad money supply would grow 17 percent this year, slightly less than last year, and new loans would be kept to $527 billion, 13 percent less than last year.
 The financial conference also discussed measures to improve the performance of banks and insurance companies. The chairman of the bank supervisory authority, Liu Minkang, said on Thursday that these plans included ''fully promoting an overall reform of the commercial state-owned banks'' and supervising these banks more closely. 
 Analysts said they took his words to mean that the four major government-banks would be prepared for equity offerings over the next few years, starting with the Bank of China and the China Construction Bank. These two banks recently received cash injections of $22.5 billion each, money that will be used to clean up their balance sheets before a stock offering. Mr. Liu also said that entry requirements for foreign banks would be simplified. 
 China's chief central banker, Zhou Xiaochuan, also promised a series of reforms to subject Chinese banks to closer monitoring, encourage the use of bank debit cards instead of cash and establish a nationwide network for checking the creditworthiness of borrowers.
 ''I think we're seeing the beginning of a big bang reform in banking,'' Mr. Huang, the Citigroup economist, said. ''It's a good sign the listing of the banks will happen sooner rather than later.'' 
 He and other analysts noted, however, that officials shied from airing radical ideas about the most internationally contentious of China's financial policies -- its exchange rate, which is tied to the United States dollar.
 Mr. Zhou, the central bank chief, repeated that the government would work to ''improve the exchange rate mechanism.'' China's State Bureau of Foreign Exchange Control on Friday issued an announcement from the meeting saying that it would seek to ease upward pressure on China's currency by loosening controls on Chinese investment and spending abroad.
 ''There was nothing that deviated from the party line,'' said Terrance Hui, China treasurer of the Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corporation in Shanghai. ''I don't see much chance of any change in the exchange rate before the end of the year.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MONEY SUPPLY (70%) Currency; Banks and Banking; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%) Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



331 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: The First Lady Speaks

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''We're just like any other married couple,'' Laura Bush said (front page, Feb. 7). ''We talk about everything. We talk about our kids. We talk about our pets. We talk about what we're going to do this weekend. And then, of course, we talk about the campaign, to some extent.''
 My wife and I talk about how we're going to pay the rent this month. We talk about which one of us must forgo glasses so the other can have needed bridge work done. We talk about the retirement we will probably never have or the house we'll never own.
 These are the things ''just folks'' usually talk about. 
 When all the statistics are boiled down, there are still about nine million unemployed in this country. There are another 20 million underemployed. An inconceivable 20 percent of Americans don't have health insurance.
 No, Laura, you're not ''just like any other married couple.'' You never have been, and that's the problem. If you were, you would be agonizing over the hemorrhaging of jobs and civil liberties in this country.

DAVID P. GREENBERG
Malden, Mass., Feb. 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) David P Greenberg; Laura (Mrs George W Bush) Bush; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



332 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Rising Deficit and Falling Confidence Send Shares Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A record United States trade deficit and a surprising drop in consumer confidence spurred profit-taking on Wall Street yesterday, sending stocks lower despite the week's bullish economic news from the Federal Reserve.
 The sell-off was prompted by an unexpected 10-point dive in the University of Michigan's mid-February consumer sentiment index. Economists had forecast a slight rise. And before the session began, the Commerce Department reported a 17.1 percent increase in the trade deficit, to $489.4 billion for 2003, far outstripping the previous record of $418 billion set in 2002. 
 While some investors found the latest data confusing given the optimistic assessment of the economy by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, the falling stock prices were also the result of investors cashing in profits before the long holiday weekend.
 ''The consumer confidence and the trade figure was not good news,'' said Peter Cardillo, senior vice president and chief market analyst for S.W. Bach & Company. ''But this doesn't necessarily reverse the bullish sentiment in the market.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 66.22 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,627.85. It finished the week 0.3 percent, or 34.82 points, higher, thanks to Wednesday's 123-point gain. It was the Dow's second consecutive winning week.
 Broader stock indicators also fell for the day. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 6.30 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,145.81. It also managed a second consecutive weekly advance, rising 0.3 percent, or 3.05 points. The Nasdaq composite index fell 20.05 points, or 1 percent, to 2,053.56. The Nasdaq lost 10.45 points, or 0.5 percent, for the week, its fourth consecutive down week.
 Despite the trade deficit figure, which was far worse than Wall Street expected, there was good news in the Commerce Department report. United States exports totaled $1 trillion, the best showing since 2000 and a 4.6 percent increase from 2002. That, combined with a generally good week of economic news, shored up prices.
 Neither economic figure, however, helped investor confidence, despite Mr. Greenspan's better-than-expected forecasts. A weakening dollar and higher oil prices also contributed to the decline, and economists believe the strong earnings reported for the fourth quarter will not be sustained through 2004.
 ''You've got a number of indicators that corporate profits are going to be weaker than expected,'' said Tracy Herrick, chief economist at the Private Bank of the Peninsula in Palo Alto, Calif. ''The strength of the market will have to focus more on interest rates than corporate profits, especially as we get into the second half of the year.''
 Comcast's proposed $54 billion takeover of Walt Disney continued to intrigue investors as Disney promised to give the bid full due diligence. Comcast slipped 16 cents, to $29.90, while Disney fell $1.08, to $26.92, after two days of strong gains. Microsoft, down 36 cents, at $26.59, and Time Warner, down 19 cents, at $17.24, have been mentioned as possible white knights for Disney.
 Safeway dropped 6 cents, to $22.43. The grocer, already struggling with a major labor strike in California, posted a loss of $1.57 a share, but beat analysts' estimates for operating profit.
 Earnings at the pharmaceutical company Cephalon fell sharply from the year-ago quarter, when it benefited from a large tax gain. But earnings were in line with analysts' expectations, and Cephalon shot up $1.84, to $57.20.
 Technology stocks were mixed on a pair of bellwether earnings reports. Dell Computer jumped 98 cents, to $34.55, after posting earnings that beat estimates by a penny a share and gave a stronger outlook on corporate technology spending. The video microchip maker Nvidia fell 22 cents, to $23.30, after it beat expectations by 3 cents a share.
 The 10-year Treasury note fell 30/32, to a price of 10 021/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, went to 4.04 percent from 4.06 percent on Thursday. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 7/32, to 106 25/32. The bond's yield jumped to 4.92 percent from 4.94 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



333 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Nixon and Congress

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 President Richard M. Nixon did not ''bludgeon'' Congress into giving him wage-price control powers (''The Nixon Recovery,'' by Charles R. Morris, Op-Ed, Feb. 7). Nixon repeatedly stated to the Democrats in Congress that he did not want that power. Congress insisted he take it so it could embarrass him about not using it to ''control'' the (then) outrageous inflation rate of just past 3 percent a year. 
 Nixon later did use it after getting pressured by John B. Connally (as Mr. Morris correctly notes) and Congress. I know about this because I was there as an observer, and because my late father, Herbert Stein, was a member of the Nixon Council of Economic Advisers at the time and was put in charge of administering Phase 1 of the wage-price freeze and controls (''like putting a nun in charge of a whorehouse,'' as he called it, since he had been so opposed to controls). This is all set out in detail in my father's book, ''Presidential Economics.''

BEN STEIN
Beverly Hills, Calif., Feb. 8, 2004

The writer was a speechwriter and lawyer for Richard M. Nixon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INFLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%) United States Economy; Wage and Price Controls; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (92%) Ben Stein; Richard Milhous (1913-94) Nixon; Charles R Morris

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



334 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; THE SATURDAY PROFILE

LENGTH: 1089 words

PERSON: Irina M. Khakamada

HEADLINE: A Samurai Fighter, Clad in Jeans, Takes On Putin

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
BORING! More questions about her personal life. More questions about this unusual creature, a glamorous, sharp-tongued half-Japanese woman who is making a lot of noise about being president.
 She dropped her chin emphatically onto her hand with a look of mock exasperation. There was a challenge in her eyes and a bit of fun too. There is no shilly-shallying around Irina M. Khakamada. This is a 48-year-old woman who tried three husbands before she found the one she liked. 
 Now she is taking on President Vladimir V. Putin in an election next month that everybody knows he is going to win. She is the only voice for liberal democracy in the campaign, and she is the only one of his six opponents who is giving him a real piece of her mind. Already she has accused him of hiding some dark truth about past terrorist attacks.
 But the question was about her personal life. She straightened and got on with it. Actually, she has a lot to say about this.
 ''Endless insults,'' she said in the interview the other day. ''Endless people and mass media talking about whether I'm a Jew or a Japanese. Right to my face, voters say, 'Don't we have enough Russian politicians?' For them, a person born in Russia with great roots in Russia who speaks Russian, whose grandfather died in Stalin's prisons is not considered Russian.'' 
 The same thing with gender.
 '' 'What kind of a president can a woman be? A woman has to take care of the home.' In America, I think things have moved ahead a lot. Hillary is a very strong politician. She was not born in New York, but she was able to be elected senator there. I am certain she can become president in 2008. She gave me her book with an autograph.''
 It is on her bookshelf with its cover facing outwards, like a portrait. Hillary Rodham Clinton has her chin in her hand.
 ''It is certainly harder for me to become a leader than for a blue-eyed man,'' Ms. Khakamada said.
 NO ONE else around here looks anything like Ms. Khakamada, a tall, impatient cigarette smoker with wire-rim glasses, cropped hair and an impish, Twiggy sexiness. Assistants trot behind her as she strides down the hall in boots, black jacket and tight blue jeans. ''I only wear black, yeah,'' she said. ''I like it so much. It's so comfortable for me to be in black.''
 Not only that. ''Black is a symbol that I'm a samurai fighter.''
 Some people say she is too dashing in a nation where the stereotypical 48-year-old woman is a plump babushka with a scarf on her head and strong opinions on how to dress warmly for winter.
 She concedes the point. ''I'm successful,'' she said. ''I won't hide that. I don't want to play at poverty. But I consider that in history, there must always be politicians who pull people ahead, pull them into the future.'' 
 Ms. Khakamada has politics going against her as well. She is the only liberal politician in Russia with the gumption to lead a hopeless charge against the dour and tightly wound president who seems to have all of Russia bent over his knee. 
 An economist who opened Russia's first securities exchange board, ran a presidential commission on small and medium businesses and served two terms in Parliament, Ms. Khakamada is one of the liberal democrats whose two parties were annihilated in a parliamentary election in December.
 The other leaders, still feuding with each other as they did throughout that campaign, have thrown up their hands and walked off the field. Neither of the parties is taking part.
 That is shameful, Ms. Khakamada said. ''Liberal parties need a living voice, not a dead voice, and for this you need to use the platform of an election.''
 This is the real difference between women and men, she said. ''The main message of the democratic men is that it's all bad, the election is unfair, the president's administrative resources are huge,'' she said. '' 'We don't want to take part.' They'll participate when everything is fine. But it won't be fine if you don't start washing the dirty dishes. So someone has to clean the dishes.''
 Mr. Putin's kitchen is a mess, she said.
 ''First, this is a society based on lies,'' she said when she announced her candidacy last month. ''Second, it is a society in which democracy is no more than a formal procedure. Third, it is a society that is based on total secrecy. And most importantly -- and something that everyone is already aware of -- it is a society based on fear.'' 
 Mr. Putin has made lap dogs out of the courts, the Parliament and the broadcast media, she said in the interview. In Russia today, ''Everything depends on his mood.'' 
 ALL this from the proud daughter of a Japanese Communist who fled to Russia during World War II and died disappointed in 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed, still embracing his Stalinist ideals of strong government and social equality.
 He was born an aristocrat, she said, the bearer of an 11th-century samurai name who became a Communist when the family lost its land in what she called Japan's bourgeois revolution.
 Ms. Khakamada has a Russian mother, was born in Moscow and speaks no Japanese; a half-brother lives in Japan. She has a 25-year-old son from her first marriage and a 5-year-old daughter from her fourth, her bull's-eye. 
 Her first husband was a kind man, but not her intellectual equal. Her second was an economic genius but a failure in business, and ''I don't like a man who is weaker than me.''
 Her third was forceful and respected her career. ''But he didn't see me as a woman who needs warmth and tenderness, who needs to be courted, who needs flowers, who needs romantic love and many children.''
 Ms. Khakamada is not a quitter. She tried again and found her prince, and they have been married for seven years.
 THE quest to have it all has not been part of Russian culture as it has among women in the West. As in her politics and her style, Ms. Khakamada is a bit ahead of the pack.
 She sees her daughter, Masha, on weekends. ''We do everything,'' she said. ''We play, we draw, we go to movies, we kiss and hug and we constantly tell each other that we love each other very much. Constantly she is asking me, 'Do you really love me?' ''
 Ms. Khakamada broke into a sweet smile as she described her response, and for some reason, the language she chose was English, in a small, sing-song voice: ''Yes, my dear, I love you. You are really great. I love you so much!''
 An aide cleared his throat and Ms. Khakamada stood up abruptly behind her desk. Interview over. Smile gone. More work to be done. She folded up a newspaper and walked quickly from the room.


GRAPHIC: Photo: IRINA M. KHAKAMADA (Photo by Sergei Kivrin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (69%); TERRORISM (68%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Women; Politics and Government; Stocks and Bonds; Small Business; Legislatures and Parliaments; Biographical Information; Elections; Economic Conditions and Trends

HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%) Seth Mydans; Irina M Khakamada; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia; Russia

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



335 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: South Dakota Is Dealt a Setback After Hanging Hopes on a Science Project

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ and KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
The hard-luck towns in the desolate reaches of western South Dakota have been banking on plans to build a physics laboratory in an abandoned, flooded gold mine called Homestake as their path to economic rebirth.
 But a letter from Washington under the letterhead of the National Science Foundation has rained pessimism on all those efforts, which were spelled out at great length by Gov. Mike Rounds in his recent State of the State address.
 In the letter, Michael Turner, the foundation's assistant director for mathematical and physical sciences, told scientists proposing the laboratory that they needed to start over. All proposals to create an underground laboratory were being ''returned without prejudice,'' Dr. Turner wrote, so the foundation could clearly define the scientific need for creating one. The letter was sent on Feb. 6 and has begun appearing on physicists' Web sites. 
 The decision by the foundation came just as legislation pushed through by Mr. Rounds created an agency with the authority to issue some $100 million in bonds to develop the site. The governor, and many residents, say the laboratory could serve as the centerpiece of a high-tech revitalization plan for the western part of the state.
 Asked about the letter in a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Rounds, a Republican, replied, ''It would be extremely ironic if the only thing stopping this project from moving forward at this time is the bureaucracy of N.S.F.''
 The letter cited the decision last year by the mine's owner, the Barrick Gold Corporation of Canada, to stop pumping water from the abandoned mine, citing cost pressures.
 South Dakota officials, and some outside physicists, said the flooding did not impair the mine's ability to function as a laboratory in the long term. But Dr. Turner said in his letter that the flooding had ''uncertain ramifications for the viability of the site for science.''
 In an interview, Dr. Turner elaborated on those concerns. ''I don't think anyone can tell how that has changed the value of the site,'' he said of the flooding. ''But I can tell you this: it hasn't improved the site.''
 South Dakota's campaign to snare the underground laboratory has included paying one prestigious physicist -- Dr. Jordan Goodman, chairman of the physics department at the University of Maryland -- as a consultant. In interviews on Thursday and Friday, Dr. Goodman criticized the letter and said the focus on the water was misguided.
 ''I think there's been a lot of panic generated about the water, for the most part by people with competing proposals,'' Dr. Goodman said. ''I believe this is going to stall things.''
 He said the water could simply be pumped out again, without extensive damage to the mine.
 That view has found support from several other scientists, including Marvin Marshak, a physicist at the University of Minnesota, who has a long history of working on underground projects.
 Dr. Marshak called Dr. Turner's commitment to creating an underground laboratory extremely positive, but added of the letter, ''I don't agree with the statements that it makes about the water in Homestake.''
 ''I've been working on underground science for 25 years,'' Dr. Marshak said, ''so I believe I know something about this.''
 The decision also met with skepticism from Barrick. ''I think that's a convenient new twist,'' said Vincent Borg, a company spokesman. ''That's not in accord with what they've told us previously. Before that and after that, that was not a stated concern. I think something else is going on.''
 Several other influential physicists, including Barry Barish of the California Institute of Technology and John Bahcall of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, said that by distancing the project from its complicated history and starting fresh, the state could actually increase its chances of winning the project.
 ''For people with something on the table, in a sense, it might look like discouragement,'' Dr. Barish said. ''I think it's good.''
 Using the mine, which is 8,000 feet deep, would save more than $100 million on the cost of a laboratory deep underground, Dr. Marshak said. 
 In round numbers, such a laboratory is expected to cost some $300 million over all.
 Dr. Turner, a noted cosmologist, also returned proposals from competing sites in Minnesota and California. None of the proposals had been solicited by the National Science Foundation. Partly for that reason, some scientists have said that the state and the federal agency have been talking at cross purposes, a situation Dr. Turner said he would like to bring to an end.
 Energetic particles from space called cosmic rays interfere with certain physics experiments that explore rare processes, and a laboratory deep underground would insulate those experiments from cosmic ray showers. For example, physicists would like to set up detectors underground to search for elusive particles that may make up cosmic dark matter, which is believed to account for most of the mass of the universe but has never been seen directly.
 Homestake was once the largest underground gold mine in the Western Hemisphere, and Lead, where it is located, was once among the largest cities in South Dakota. As gold mining wound down at Homestake, Lead (pronounced leed) declined, too. Its population dropped to 3,027 residents in 2000 from 3,632 in 1990. The mine laid off 600 of its 850 employees in 1998, and it closed at the end of 2001.
 In the late 1960's, Dr. Raymond Davis Jr., then a scientist at Brookhaven National Laboratory, set up a vat of cleaning liquid and water in Homestake that counted ghostly particles known as neutrinos coming from the sun. That work won Dr. Davis the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2002.
 ''It's a very good site,'' Dr. Turner said, ''and it has a good history of doing science.'' 
 When the plans to close the mine were announced, scientists envisioned converting its 300 miles of tunnels into a vast scientific laboratory. South Dakota politicians saw the laboratory as means for revitalizing the Black Hills region.
 On Wednesday, Governor Rounds signed five bills intended to help Barrick in donating the mine to the state.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In the late 1960's, a project in the Homestake mine counted particles known as neutrinos coming from the sun. (Photo by Photo Researchers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); PHYSICS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BONDS (72%); TRENDS (61%) Physics; Gold; Mines and Mining; Area Planning and Renewal; Physics; Economic Conditions and Trends; Science and Technology

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%) National Science Foundation

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL R TURNER (90%); MIKE ROUNDS (79%) James Glanz; Kenneth Chang; Michael Turner; Mike (Gov) Rounds

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) South Dakota; Lead (Sd)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004



336 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: The General

BYLINE: By Drew Gilpin Faust. 
Drew Gilpin Faust is dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study and the Lincoln professor of history at Harvard University.

 BODY:

HARRIET TUBMAN
The Life and the Life Stories.
By Jean M. Humez.
Illustrated. 471 pp. Madison:
University of Wisconsin Press. $45.

BOUND FOR THE PROMISED LAND
Harriet Tubman, Portrait
of an American Hero.
By Kate Clifford Larson.
Illustrated. 402 pp. New York:
Ballantine Books. $26.95.

HARRIET TUBMAN
The Road to Freedom.
By Catherine Clinton.
Illustrated. 272 pp. Boston:
Little, Brown & Company. $27.95.
 THE Post Office has issued not one but two Harriet Tubman stamps; the National Standards for United States History have named Tubman as a figure who should be familiar to students by the fifth grade; Google lists more than 90,000 entries under her name; Amazon.com offers more than 1,200 results in its book category, including one entitled ''Girls Who Rocked the World . . . From Harriet Tubman to Mia Hamm.'' 
 Tubman is far better known in American popular culture and among schoolchildren than she is in the serious historical literature. There has been no adult biography since 1943. Now three scholars have published studies almost simultaneously. Who is Harriet Tubman and why should we care about her? What can we know of her life, how can we know it and how should it shape our understanding of American history?
 Tubman was born a slave on Maryland's Eastern Shore sometime in the early 1820's. She saw her sisters sold, bore scars of whippings all her life and suffered permanent disability from a head injury incurred when an enraged overseer hit her with a weight hurled at another slave, who was trying to run away. In 1849, fearing she would be sold, Tubman fled north, connecting with antislavery activists through what came to be known as the Underground Railroad. She returned to the South more than a dozen times to lead her brother, parents and, ultimately, about 70 individuals to freedom. By the late 1850's, Tubman was appearing on the antislavery lecture circuit and was widely hailed as a heroine across the North. John Brown, who visited her in Canada to seek her help in planning his abortive 1859 raid on Harpers Ferry, called her ''General Tubman.'' During the Civil War, Tubman served as teacher, laundress, cook, spy and scout for the Union forces, helping to connect Northern troops with networks of slave information. In June 1863, she played a crucial role in a Union raid in South Carolina that liberated more than 700 slaves.
 After the war, Tubman settled in Auburn, N.Y., where she struggled economically the rest of her life, undertaking domestic work and public speaking to support herself and dedicating much of her energy to philanthropic efforts on behalf of the freed people. She also became a regular speaker at woman suffrage gatherings, demanding to know if women's wartime deeds ''do not place woman as man's equal, what do?'' Tubman sought government acknowledgment of her own wartime service -- ''as nurse and cook in hospitals and as commander of several men . . . as scouts,'' as her pension application attested. Her claim was rejected, and she was provided instead with a monthly widow's pension, raised from $8 to $20 in recognition of her work as a nurse. Even the intervention of her congressman did not win official validation of her role as a scout and spy. Deeply spiritual, Tubman died in 1913 with clergymen at her side and a profession of Christian faith on her lips: ''I go away to prepare a place for you.''
 Tubman led a remarkable life, one that her race, her sex and her origins make all the more extraordinary. Even in her own time, her heroism was recognized as the stuff of legend, larger than life and her historical circumstances. Children's literature, with its affinities for the fabulous, the celebratory and the exemplary, has seemed a more comfortable environment for such a story than professional historical writing that endeavors to be critical, contextual and analytic and to build its interpretations on a rich documentary record.
 Tubman remained illiterate her entire life. She left not a single document in her own hand. To find, as Jean M. Humez seeks to do in ''Harriet Tubman: The Life and the Life Stories,'' ''the private woman whose life has virtually disappeared behind the heroic public icon,'' is no small challenge. Humez, who teaches women's studies at the University of Massachusetts, Boston, cites the ''advantage of a much larger number of primary sources'' than earlier students of Tubman. Indeed, she and Kate Clifford Larson, in her first book, ''Bound for the Promised Land,'' have both done extensive and imaginative research in local historical sources that tell us almost more than we want to know about the Eastern Shore in the mid-19th century; in the papers of antislavery activists who interacted with Tubman; in the correspondence of an earlier Tubman biographer who in the 1940's interviewed individuals who had been alive long enough to remember her. 
 Catherine Clinton's ''Harriet Tubman: The Road to Freedom'' is much less richly researched and less detailed, but draws on the extensive historical writing of recent years about slavery and Civil War to place Tubman's life within its times -- through descriptions of the black Philadelphia in which she found herself after her escape in 1849, of the history of the Underground Railroad, of the impact and aftermath of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, of the experiences of war in the coastal South. Clinton, whose books include ''Fanny Kemble's Civil Wars,'' frequently speculates about what she cannot know, with such interjections as ''one can imagine'' or ''there is every reason to believe.'' Larson and Humez tend to conjecture less and instead to supply the reader with the considerable information they have collected -- sometimes, it seems, more because they have found it than because it adds significantly to our understanding of Tubman's life. 
 Having eluded slave catchers and Confederate soldiers so successfully, Tubman -- or at least the ''private woman'' Humez seeks -- largely eludes us still. But Humez spends less than half her book on a biographical treatment of Tubman. The final 200 pages consider the contemporary stories and texts through which we know Tubman, with most of this space devoted to excerpts from the documents themselves. Humez has compiled what she calls Tubman's ''core stories,'' accounts of her life Tubman told regularly in her public appearances, and descriptions written by those who interacted with her. Presented as a chronology of her life, these materials paint a far more vivid portrait than any biographer's account. The reader gains not just glimpses of Tubman, but sees how she confounded even those admirers who still could not comprehend a black woman who behaved like the bravest of men. John Brown, for example, could not conceive of her as a woman and referred to her not just as ''General'' but with a masculine pronoun: ''He is the most of a man, naturally, that I ever met with.'' 
 And the racism of even the most progressive of antislavery figures appears unmistakably, illustrating some of the obstacles to Tubman's ready incorporation into the historical record. Franklin Sanborn, a Boston editor and one of the Secret Six who conspired with John Brown to overturn slavery, wrote after the Civil War: ''I regard her as . . . the most extraordinary person of her race I have ever met. She is a Negro of pure or almost pure blood, can neither read nor write, and has the characteristics of her race and condition. But she has done what can scarcely be credited on the best authority, and she has accomplished her purposes with a coolness, foresight, patience and wisdom, which in a white man would have raised him to the highest pitch of reputation.'' Unable to deal with her complexity, her inherent challenge to every expectation of race and sex, history in the early 20th century all but forgot her. An era of growing racial equality rediscovered her only to reduce her to myth.
 These three biographies leave us still searching for Harriet Tubman, still unsure how this particular slave woman was able to transcend the constraints her era and her society placed upon her. But we now have help in our pursuit. Read with the care Humez's introduction to the documentary section of her book prescribes, the collection of Tubman sources she has assembled provide the basis for a far fuller and more complex portrait than has hitherto been available. These contemporary observations and descriptions present Tubman at once in her ordinariness and her extraordinariness, render her as both real and impossibly heroic, and offer us the best opportunity to begin to understand how and why Harriet Tubman ''rocked the world.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LITERATURE (90%); SLAVERY (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); LITERATURE GENRES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); HEAD INJURIES (64%); PHILANTHROPY (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews; Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (72%); GOOGLE INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (73%) Drew Gilpin Faust; Jean M Humez; Kate Clifford Larson; Catherine Clinton; Harriet (1820-1913) Tubman; Drew Gilpin Faust; Kate Clifford Larson

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



337 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Vladivostok Finds Its Worldliness Again

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: VLADIVOSTOK, Russia 

 BODY:
BATHED by the Sea of Japan but controlled by Moscow, Vladivostok has always presented two faces to the world.
 Its open face was that of Russia's San Francisco -- a rollicking, cosmopolitan seaport that was the childhood home of Yul Brynner.
 Its unfriendly face began in the 1860's with its name, which means ''To Rule the East.'' Planted as Russia's flag in Asia, Vladivostok was a ''maritime fortress'' under the czars and a closed city under the Soviets. 
 But now Vladivostok, a neighbor of China, Japan and the Korean Peninsula, is regaining its natural worldliness, opening its doors to tourists and investors. Korean Air flies here four times a week from Seoul. Negotiations are under way to start flights from Tokyo and from the West Coast of the United States.
 ''Our dream is to make Vladivostok a powerful international center,'' Victor V. Gorchakov, the region's vice governor for economy, said in his office overlooking city docks where United States Navy ships now routinely make good will port calls. Vladivostok's new openness can be seen up and down the hilly streets overlooking Golden Horn Bay.
 At night, the neon and twinkling lights signal new shopping centers and a lively night life, transporting the city far from the terrible power shortages of the late 1990's.
 By day, English-speaking guides lead tourists, largely Chinese, Japanese and Korean, through once-closed coastal artillery emplacements and into long-secret networks of catacomb defenses. Above ground, on shopping streets, where new boutiques sprout from Soviet decay, A.T.M.'s accept American bank cards and crank out rubles at the push of a PIN. 
 Bilingual English-Russian menus are increasingly the norm at restaurants like Nostalgia and Del Mar, which specialize in Pacific seafood cooked with New Russian flair. Now that tourism is in vogue, restorers have worked their magic on the 1912 railroad station, the stately terminus of the Trans-Siberian Railroad, whose line stretches 5,768 miles to Moscow.
 Two blocks away, at the Beaux-Arts Hotel Versailles, glossy brochures proudly boast of ''our English-spoken waitress.'' Up a hill, at the Hyundai, a favorite hotel of business travelers, room televisions carry the BBC (marked ''USA'').
 ''About 45 percent of our guests are Americans,'' said Alex M. Petrollini, from Alberta, Canada, who manages the Vlad Inn, a Canadian-owned hotel. In a parklike setting halfway between Vladivostok's airport and the city, the inn has become a favorite for American couples who come here to adopt Russian babies.
 This year, three international cruise ships docked. American eco-tourism companies have started to take groups to explore the mountains, forests and nearly empty Pacific beaches of the Primorye region, which has the population density of Maine but is twice the size.
 While still in its infancy, Primorye's tourism industry ''is gaining strong support from the U.S. Northwest states and Alaska as the realization dawns that the majority of U.S. visitors come to the Russian Far East from the West," William S. Lawton, commercial officer for the United States Consulate here, said after lunch at the Del Mar. The new bay-view restaurant is run by a Vladivostok woman who recently returned after seven years in California.
 But it is a wave of tourists from China that explains the new services and tourist-friendly attitudes here, down to the courteousness at Vladivostok's newly renovated international air terminal.
 Every summer for the past three years, about 100,000 Chinese tourists have come to Vladivostok, largely by bus across the border; about 10 percent come on direct flights from three cities in Manchuria. The big attraction is the new casinos here, since gambling is banned in China. Judging by sauna advertisements, a fair number of Chinese men also come for sex.
 ''Chinese people are attracted by the opportunity to meet European culture on the Asian continent,'' said Sergei A. Pysin, chairman of the regional tourism committee, echoing views commonly held here that the largely Caucasian Vladivostok is the closest European city to Asia.
 According to local tourism officials, 126,500 foreigners visited the city in 2003. In the first nine months of the year, 1,019 Americans visited. April through October is the busiest period for Vladivostok.
 The Chinese -- gamblers, sexual adventurers or families -- have given Vladivostok hoteliers the economic justification to upgrade Soviet-era facilities.
 ''Initially most tourists were from northeast China, and they were poor and they did not require high-class hotels and accommodations,'' Mr. Pysin said. ''Now people from southern China are coming. They are wealthy people. They require higher-class service, including hotels.''
 Also, as attested by the march of new billboards from the airport highway, businesses increasingly base their regional headquarters here. Three floors of the Hyundai are devoted to company offices, and the occupancy rate averages 95 percent, according to Nadia V. Dubinina, marketing manager for the hotel, a South Korean-Russian joint venture.
 Yet Vladivostok can still surprise. On a recent Saturday, at a fur shop where mink coats were $9,000, I approached the cash register with a modest white fox hat and a Visa card. No cards. Only cash. It was December and a frigid wind was blowing off the Sea of Japan. After the first two A.T.M.'s yielded nothing, the third had cash. It offered electronic menus in Russian, English and Chinese. I got the hat. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladivostok, on the Sea of Japan. (Photo by Jerry Kobalenko) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TOURISM (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); BEACHES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); ECOTOURISM (74%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); CRUISES (74%); NAVIES (73%); RETAILERS (70%); MULTILINGUALISM (69%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); POPULATION DENSITY (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%) Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (51%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CANADA (91%); ASIA (90%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Russia; Vladivostok (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



338 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Can't Win for Losing

BYLINE: By Ron Suskind. 
Ron Suskind's latest book is ''The Price of Loyalty.'' He is the author of ''A Hope in the Unseen: An American Odyssey From the Inner City to the Ivy League.''

 BODY:

THE WORKING POOR
Invisible in America.
By David K. Shipler.
319 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 THE phrase ''working poor'' doesn't carry much weight in this fractious political season. It slips by in a campaign speech, with nothing much to grab onto as it passes. It suffers from a kind of blunt-edged simplicity -- a collision of enormous, rounded terms that, by the lights of American exceptionalism, should not be joined. Both political parties quietly agree that it is an ugly, unsettling combination -- that any American who works steadily should not have to suffer the barbed indignities of poverty. But Americans do -- millions of them. There are 35 million people in the country living in poverty. Most of the adults in that group work nowadays; many of them work full time. And while there are heavy concentrations of African-Americans and white single women in the mix, the group is every bit as diverse, and diffuse, as the nation is. 
 Which presents a central problem for David Shipler in his powerful new book, ''The Working Poor: Invisible in America'': how do you write a treatise on something as vast and many-hued as an ocean, a forest, the sky? Shipler knows this and, somehow, proceeds undaunted. A former New York Times reporter, he won a Pulitzer Prize for his book ''Arab and Jew,'' and then managed to wrap his arms around the classically obstreperous topic of race in America with ''A Country of Strangers: Blacks and Whites in America.'' This is what he's become known for: tackling the unwieldy. 
 Of course, Shipler has plenty of company in writing about fault-line issues of the American experiment, like race, class and the nature of opportunity. But it is an area populated in the past decade or two by writers -- like Alex Kotlowitz in ''There Are No Children Here'' or, more recently, Barbara Ehrenreich, who chronicled her personal journey as a low-wage worker in ''Nickel and Dimed'' -- who incline toward the power of personal narrative. In the first few chapters of ''The+Working+Poor,'' Shipler shows, inadvertently, why so many journalists have made that choice. He lunges forward at the book's start with some sweeping judgments, like ''the rising and falling fortunes of the nation's economy have not had much impact on these folks'' and ''the skills for surviving in poverty have largely been lost in America'' -- both debatable issues -- and introduces a racially+diverse, thinly+connected army of poor workers, some appearing for just a paragraph or two. Parts of an early chapter titled ''Importing the Third World'' read like a dissertation on sweatshop cash flows.
 I suggest that readers -- and this is clearly one of those seminal books that every American should read and read now -- stick with it. Shipler, like the man who pays to wrestle a behemoth at the county fair, is just trying to get leverage on an indomitable opponent. By the fourth chapter, just a third of the way, his strategy takes shape: he's wearing down the giant. Shipler's subjects, many of whom he spent nearly seven years following with meticulous empathy, begin to reappear in the text. Their stories start to deepen, mixed with complex insights that Shipler interweaves judiciously. In the chapter ''Harvest of Shame,'' he deftly shows how government crackdown on illegal immigrants creates ''migration within the migration,'' as an army of immigrant workers races from strict-enforcement states like Ohio to more lenient ones like North Carolina, and notes that ''when a migrant stops moving . . . he starts to enter America.'' There are employers like Jimmy Burch -- a North Carolina farm owner -- who co-signs loans for new trailers for his workers. He has an interest. His workers do, too. He says he's ''never been burned'' with a default -- not yet. Shipler never shies away from noting the employer's power, but by embracing complexity, and trusting the reader to be up to the task, he burns off the easy illusions of hero versus villain that so often addle journalism.
 Doing+that frees the writer to ask a set of questions off+limits to many practitioners of what is called ''poverty literature.'' Kevin Fields, a beefy 280-pound African-American man, with a shaved head, gold earring and a felony conviction for effectively fighting off a street gang, is virtually unemployable. Men with a similar arrest record, but different profiles, have less difficulty. ''Violence,'' Shipler points out, ''has a longstanding place in many whites' images of blacks. So, if you are black, if you are a man, if you are large and strong, or if you have a prison record, you are likely to be perceived as a person with a temper, a vein of rage.'' 
 Half of all poor families are headed by single women, and, in a chapter titled ''Sins of the Fathers,'' Shipler doesn't flinch from delving into how many struggling women were sexually abused as children. The evolving estimates show the outlines of an epidemic. Kara King, a white New Hampshire mother, was molested by her father, who told her ''that's the way a father and a daughter are.'' The effects -- ''a paralyzing powerlessness'' that ''mixes corrosively with other adversities that deprive those in or near poverty of the ability to effect change'' -- are visible each time Kara and her family appear in the book.
 The same goes for other subjects whose jumbled lives serve to illuminate various elements of this enormous topic. The reader learns the issues; knows the aching heart. What takes shape is an ensemble play that weaves together traditional feature reporting, digressions about ''best evidence'' and a few passionate expository arias to display ''the constellation of difficulties,'' as Shipler puts it, that defines working poverty. It defines the lives of millions of Americans. 
 Toward the book's finish, Shipler tries to harness the outrage provoked by his characters' stories to examine the question of what can be done. He shifts his focus to programs for job training, early childhood care and remedial education (that alone meriting a domestic Marshall Plan, considering that 14+percent of American adults can't find an intersection on a map, total a deposit slip or determine the correct dose of a medication). The author's efforts, here, are uneven. Programmatic solutions, after all, are the hard, ungainly work of hours and inches. Shipler's frustration seems to get the best of him when he is talking about unenthusiastic students, bad teaching and the way dreams of future success are little more than ''a notion carried on a breeze of impulse.''
 But alongside these broad, imperfect efforts, Shipler threads a glowing filament: the telling acts of kindness, so often just small offerings, that lift both giver and receiver. It's the little traps and trips that foil those at the bottom. When you have no bank account, no car, no health insurance, it inverts the slogan of that best-selling self-help book: You have to sweat the small stuff. A modest mishap to someone who can land on a cushion of nominal security can land a poor person on the pavement, often literally. Caroline Payne, with a two-year associate's degree and no teeth, can't afford dentures. No one wants to hire her. When she finally gets a job in a Procter & Gamble factory, all is almost lost when the plant's rotating shift policy leaves her unable to care for her daughter one week every month. A friend steps up; her job is saved. In the book's last section, Kara King is fighting cancer. Her husband, Tom, has no car to the drive the two hours to a Boston hospital for visits. It's crushing to read. When a local car dealer gives him a loaner it feels like the healing of the world. The working poor -- that enormous cohort -- are easily outnumbered by America's broad middle class. Most experts agree: lifting a poor worker to the uplands of self-sufficiency takes a concerted, many-pronged effort. In that mix, invariably, must be someone willing to lend a hand, to make even a little sacrifice.
 Shipler's underlying mission, no doubt, is identical to that of the narrative stylists who toil among America's underclass: to press readers beyond appraising poverty's causes and effects, so often inventoried for swift, harsh judgment, to the deeper understanding that the working poor are really us. ''I hope this book,'' Shipler writes, ''will help them to be seen.'' In short, he wants to give readers something to hold onto.
 Then, the questions tend to be about the ''hows'' -- how we, as a country, might now act. Readers, by the last page, can scarcely avoid that question, or the larger algorithm that Shipler offers: ''To appraise a society, examine its ability to be self-correcting. When grievous wrongs are done or endemic suffering exposed, when injustice is discovered or opportunity denied, watch the institutions of government and business and charity. Their response is an index of a nation's health and of a people's strength.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); WRITERS (87%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); LITERATURE (71%); JOURNALISM (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Ron Suskind; David K Shipler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



339 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2535 words

HEADLINE: A Modern Oasis Stands Apart In the Mideast

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET. 
JAMES BENNET is chief of the Jerusalem bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
INSIDE the stained-glass pyramid, a gentle, foamy snow fell on the animatronic polar bear. To a pulsing salsa beat, the man at the keyboards warbled ''I wanna wish you a merry Christmas,'' as parents, including some mothers in Islamic headscarves, lined up to conduct their children into Santa's village for a photograph with the man himself.
 It was indeed a merry Christmas in Dubai, the tiny, striving Arab emirate that, year round, expresses something of the all-Santa-no-manger essence of the modern, secular holiday: lightheartedness, panting consumerism, glittering shallows and, for those who seek them out, depths as well. 
 My wife, Sarah, and I were in the Pharaonic-themed Wafi Mall, but we could have been in a polished-marble-and-Starbucks shopping complex anywhere in the world, right down to the way our 17-month-old, Ike, burst into tears when he came face to face, ho-ho-ho, with Santa himself. 
 That generic, anyplace quality is part of the public face of Dubai, which some of its many foreign residents tend to compare to Disney World, or even Las Vegas. It is Middle East lite, as a friend living here puts it. It is less complicated, less densely layered and, as a result, maybe less unnerving than destinations in the region like Istanbul, Cairo or our home base, Jerusalem. 
 To any tourist, it might seem odd to pass over those other, ancient Middle Eastern cities for Dubai. Yet one can get quite enough of layers, thank you. There is something to be said for the surfaces of things: for the setting sun glinting on the faceted Persian Gulf; for the shimmering reds, blues and greens in the avian cacophony of the bird market in the neighboring emirate, Sharjah; for the shiny chrome noses of the white Bentleys parked at the doors of the Burj al Arab Hotel.
 For, yes, we did splurge and stay at the Burj, the soaring luxury hotel that opened in 1999 and is already so cherished by Dubai as a symbol of its splendor that its image adorns every license plate. Well, we stayed there one night, and were careful not to run up the bill with extras like sampling the ''bath menu.''
 The rest of our trip we stayed with Jason Davis, the American consul general in Dubai, and his partner, Matt Smith, and benefited from their considerable local knowledge. And so, though we kept up a frantic pace and stayed 12 days, far longer than most tourists stay, we left feeling we had barely glimpsed the many surfaces of Dubai and its close neighbors. 
 Much has been said about the economic miracle of Dubai, one of the seven desert microkingdoms -- altogether, at about 32,000 square miles, they are just about the size of Maine -- that make up the United Arab Emirates. Particularly given the region's chaos, it is impressive when seen up close: The cranes operating at all hours; Internet City and Media City, where companies like Microsoft and CNN make their regional homes in what was desert five years ago; the colossal island development, shaped like a palm tree, that is being built out into the gulf. 
 They say you can see the palm from space. After the island opens for visitors next year, planners say it will more than double Dubai's beachfront and eventually include 49 themed hotels (Balinese, Sicilian, Mexican, etc.). 
 Developers here have also announced plans for an underwater resort, Hydropolis. Others intend to build ski slopes in a mall.
 There was a time, my grandmother tells me, that my great-grandfather traveled to Dubai to buy shells to make mother-of-pearl buttons in his factory in Warsaw. Those were the days before cultured pearls, when pearling thrived here. Traders sailed their bulky dhows from Dubai's Creek, its historic port, to India and beyond. 
 As pearling collapsed, the city also faded. In one of Dubai's museums, the Sheikh Saeed al Maktoum House, archival photos reveal the ramshackle condition of the city in the early 1950's, with the Creek silting up. 
 Oil has enabled the current boom, but it does not entirely explain it. Iraq has much more oil, and, according to the government, tourism actually contributes more than oil to Dubai's economy. About 4.4 million visitors, many from Europe, came last year. (They stayed on average just 2.5 days -- enough time for a mall safari and a dip in the sea.)
 Hustle, imagination, a willingness to indulge a degree of hedonism and a determination to fulfill a romantic conception of itself have helped Dubai prosper. 
 The Burj -- Arabic for ''tower'' -- is in many ways a fitting emblem for Dubai, with its 22,000 square feet of gold leaf and its many foreign workers. Most residents are foreign workers, not natives, and most of those workers are Indian. Like Dubai itself, the Burj is crying out for an enterprising Indian documentary filmmaker with a hidden camera. 
 Built on a manmade island a short distance from the beach, the hotel is a stirring sight. It is more than a thousand feet high and shaped like a white spinnaker billowing landward in an onshore breeze. Yet step inside and at first startling glance, you feel as though the interior decorator and the designer never met: the two-story lobby is a jumble of fabrics, textures and colors, with a particularly Gulden's-mustard sort of gold predominating. 
 The first time we entered the hotel, on a tour, Sarah broke our stunned silence by saying, ''It's really sort of cheesy.'' My eye sought refuge farther up, where the cupped balconies of the suites alternate with pastel bands to give an appearance of stacked clouds receding skyward in the triangular atrium, more than 50 stories high.
 All the rooms are two stories, beginning with the mere deluxe suite, at 1,830 square feet, for which the rate was $972 -- not including taxes and other fees, which raised the price to $1,143. The largest, the royal suite, is 8,396 square feet and rents for $9,719 night -- taxes and breakfast not included -- at 3.75 dirhams to the dollar.
 That's on paper, anyway. I suggest you haggle. I'm no good at it, but over the telephone, I persuaded them to cut our rate, including taxes, to $915. 
 Not to lose a minute, we arrived 15 minutes after the appointed check-in time, only to discover that our room was not ready. As we waited in the lobby for almost half an hour, and a clerk studied my credit card and passport, I began to wonder at the Burj's reputation for service. A guest was offered fresh dates; we were offered only a cool towel. 
 The wait gave me a chance to appreciate the lobby, which, with its vividly colorful intricacy, has some sense of imagination and fun. There are two appealing fountains, formed by many arching five-foot jets of water. At intervals, the jets are cut off into shortened segments that leap through the air like fish, then into even smaller globs of water that jump like frogs through the same arcs and slap out a staccato rhythm as they land. 
 At either side of the lobby, flanking the escalators to the second floor, are giant aquariums, like windows onto coral reefs. Inside one, a scuba diver was scrubbing the glass, clinging to the side with a suction cup. 
 When we were conducted to our floor -- the ninth by the Burj's count but actually the 18th -- we were introduced to our butler. (Each floor has its own.) Sheldon, a delightful young man wearing tails and hailing from Bombay, gave us a tour of our room: The laptop with free Internet connection; the spectacular floor-to-ceiling views of sea and strand; the 42-inch plasma television screen, set in a sort of giant gold bulb, which could also open the door and curtains and, to Ike's delight, included ''Bob the Builder'' cartoons. 
 A bottle of wine was waiting for us. The only nod to religion that we noticed was a small decal stuck to one tabletop, a green arrow pointing toward Mecca.
 Up the curving marble staircase, Sheldon showed us the giant, tiled bathroom, with his and hers sinks and multiple Hermes products, and the gaping Jacuzzi that we would later fill with Hermes soap bubbles and all three Bennets.
 You may be thinking that it is not sporting to test a luxury hotel's amenities against the base tastes of a 17-month-old boy, or perhaps even those of his father. Yet when you stay at a place like the Burj, you are entering Eloise territory, a different realm of service and clientele. There were many families with children. At the seaside pool, Sarah overheard one girl asking another, in British-accented English, if any new rides had been added at the nearby Wild Wadi water park since her last trip to Dubai. 
 Once we got past the lobby, the staff could not have been warmer. The restaurant at the top of the hotel, al Muntaha, was happy to provide a highchair at dinner, and on a proudly upraised palm a smiling waitress bore Ike's warmed bottle on a tray. 
 I was less entranced by the menu. There we were, hovering over the Persian Gulf, and not a single local fish could be found. In place of local squid and prawns, they offered North Atlantic lobster and salmon. Even the pigeon, served with white truffle risotto, was described as ''French.'' 
 And it dawned on me that that was the point: As with Dubai's malls, this could have been a pricey restaurant anywhere in the world. It was certainly not that our mostly excellent dishes -- that French pigeon, the cannelloni with leeks and mushrooms, the pan-fried halibut with saffron hollandaise -- lacked flavor. They were bland purely in a geographic sense. 
 For my money, I'd recommend dining next door at the new Chinese restaurant beside the manmade lagoon of the Mina al Salaam hotel. You can eat wasabi-glazed prawns, you can hear the roar of the surf, and you can admire the architecture of the Burj, its most magnificent, generous feature, one that can be enjoyed free. 
 Our stay at the Burj al Arab showed us that one could have the most pleasant, least geographically specific of vacations in Dubai, shopping, learning to kite-surf, or perhaps going four-wheeling in the desert for a dash of local color. But there are also simpler pleasures to be found, ones that convey a spiced sense of place. 
 For a mere 15 cents or so, you can cross the Creek on an abra, a crowded, low-slung ferry, and stroll through the giant gold souk. There, you can bargain for elaborate earrings in sunshine-yellow 22-carat gold; or just wander the market and guess at the national origins of the faces, in their amazing range; then walk along the Creek and guess at the destinations of the dhows, docked six deep waiting for their loads of kitchen appliances or grain or mysterious sacks, all jumbled on the sidewalk. 
 Dubai's many restaurants demonstrate its modern ethnic richness. Our favorite meal was at the modest al Maskoof al Iraqi. We had Iranian river fish in an Iraqi style, split down the middle, propped up and roasted slowly against an open fire that left its flesh fluffy and sharply flavorful.
 Aside from Christmas Day on the beach in an exhilarating surf, our most memorable experience came when our friends took us on an excursion to the Musandam Peninsula, an easy drive north across the border into neighboring Oman. Because of its deep, rocky inlets, the area bills itself as the Norway of Arabia. Less than three hours from Dubai, it is where the Persian Gulf meets the Gulf of Oman, forming the Strait of Hormuz. A short hop from Iran, until recently it was a closed military area. 
 Across the border, we stopped after dark by a rocky beach where the surf was crashing phosphorescent green, because of bioluminescence in the water. Flung pebbles touched off fireworks in the waves. As we waded in, our hands dragged flaming green torches beneath the dark surface.
 We spent the night at the new, straightforward Golden Tulip hotel in the port town Khasab, and the next morning rented a motorized dhow. The captain escorted us for the day through a stark, gorgeous wilderness of towering brown and red cliffs crumbling into blue water. 
 We tied off to a mooring near Telegraph Island, named for a 19th-century British outpost, and snorkeled along the teeming shore. On the way back, we tailed a group of dolphins. Arab boys, like the children of Maine lobstermen, raced past us in outboard skiffs.
 By this point in our trip, I was not surprised to find that there were more, and more basic, satisfactions to be found here than I had guessed from the cable news network advertisements of the wonders of the duty-free at the Dubai airport.
 That was evident to me by the second day, when we had lunch at the Venetian-themed Mercato Mall, where Ike drove the toy cars in the BMW store and we had a nice time admiring an animatronic pink poodle yapping outside the Hallmark store.
 We drove from there to the nearly empty beach. Out in the Gulf, two dhows were racing, their lateen-rigged sails stretched in bold, white curves as they reached southward, toward the declining sun. We played with our naked, giggling baby in the amniotic surf and then, in my empty Starbucks cup, we collected seashells -- tinted pink, dappled brown, ridged in white -- for his great-grandmother.

A meeting of old and new

Where to Stay
 Burj Al Arab Hotel, Post Office Box 74147, Dubai, U.A.E., (971-4) 301-7266, fax (971-4) 301-7001 www.burj-al-arab.com, has 202 two-floor suites. At 3.75 dirhams to the dollar, official rates start at $1,069 for a one-bedroom suite and go to $9,719 for the royal suite, not including 10 percent service charge and 10 percent tax, and not including breakfast. But Internet rates can be less.
 The new Golden Tulip Resort, Post Office Box 434, Khasab, Oman; (968) 830-777, fax (968) 830-888, www.goldentulipkhasab.com, has 60 rooms, a pool and a view of the sea and cliffs. Rates are $96 for a standard room to $187 for an executive suite, not including 17 percent tax, but with breakfast, at 3.85 rials to the dollar. 

Where to Eat
 Al Muntaha, at the top of the Al Burj, (971-4) 301-7600, offers modern European cuisine at lunch and dinner daily. But it is best to go for lunch or tea, when the astonishing view can most be enjoyed. Dinner for two with wine averages about $400. 
 Al Maskoof al Iraqi, at al Monzer shopping mall, (971-4) 297-2288, offers appetizers like fatoush and hummus and entrees like kebabs and chicken tikka. The excellent fire-roasted Iraqi fish is about $11 per kilogram (2.2 pounds). Dinner for two costs about $25. Lunch and dinner daily.
 At Zhen He in the Mina al Salaam Hotel, (971-4) 366-8888; email: reservations@madinatjumeriah.com, you can sit outside by the lagoon and enjoy the sea air and the view of the Burj, next door. Appetizers include wasabi glazed prawns, entrees, black peeper beef, Dinner for two $80. 

Things to Do
 Khasab Travel, Khasab, Oman, (968) 830-905, fax (968) 830-364; email: khastour@gto.net.om, arranges dhow tours of the Musandam Peninsula for about $80 a person, less for large groups. The trips include refreshments and lunch. The area has only recently opened up and tourists may find amenities basic. Our boat had no safety lines or adequate life preservers, and the restroom was primitive.
 Sheikh Saeed al Maktoum House, Shindagha, Dubai, (971-4) 393-7139, displays historical documents and photographs of Dubai. Open daily 8 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. except on Friday from 3 to 9 p.m.. Entry, 55 cents. JAMES BENNET


GRAPHIC: Photos: A boat race on the Creek, Dubai's port. The Burj al Arab Hotel and its atrium rise more than 50 stories above the lobby. Palm Island will be home to 49 hotels. Villas at Media City, in what was desert five years ago. (Photographs for The New York Times by Moghrabi/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by James Bennet/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
The interior of the Venetian-themed Mercato Mall
an abra ferries passengers across Dubai's port, the Creek
 a shop in the gold souk in the Deira district in the heart of Dubai. (Photographs for The New York Times by Rabih Moghrabi /Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 7)Map of United Arab Emirates highlighting Dubai. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PASSOVER (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%) Travel and Vacations; Hotels and Motels

ORGANIZATION: Burj Al Arab Hotel (Dubai)

PERSON: James Bennet

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); NEVADA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); GULF STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Dubai

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



340 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 5; Book Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Defending Bush, or Not

 BODY:
 To the Editor: 
 In his review of my book with Mike Mochizuki, ''Crisis on the Korean Peninsula,'' Serge Schmemann gets our basic argument wrong. We expressly do not favor rewarding North Korea with large amounts of economic aid to surrender its nuclear weapons program. We propose a much broader deal, to avoid the charge of appeasement and to begin to change the basic nature of North Korean society. The United States and its regional partners would offer Pyongyang non-cash assistance, normal trade relations, full diplomatic ties and security assurances only if North Korea also agrees to gradual marketization of its economy, deep cuts in its extraordinarily large conventional military forces, verifiable elimination of chemical weapons and long-range missiles, and improvement of its human rights policies.

Michael O'Hanlon
Washington


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); LITERATURE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Michael O'Hanlon; Mike Mochizuki; Serge Schmemann

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



341 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Speak, Oracle

BYLINE: By Adam Cohen. 
Adam Cohen writes editorials for The Times and is the author of ''The Perfect Store: Inside eBay.''

 BODY:

SOFTWAR
An Intimate Portrait of
Larry Ellison and Oracle.
By Matthew Symonds
with commentary by Larry Ellison.
Illustrated. 508 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $28.

EVERYONE ELSE MUST FAIL
The Unvarnished Truth About
Oracle and Larry Ellison.
By Karen Southwick.
306 pp. New York:
Crown Business. $27.50.
 ''You can have the job. -- Larry.'' With that e-mail message, Larry Ellison informed a California computer consultant named Michael Murdock, two days before Christmas 1997, that he was being named the chief executive of Apple Computers. But Ellison, a member of Apple's board, and his pal Steve Jobs were just having some mean-spirited fun. Murdock was later told, according to The San Francisco Chronicle, that it was all a joke, and if he showed up at Apple he would be asked to leave, and if he did not, would be arrested.
 The Apple C.E.O. prank is one of countless Ellison tales eagerly traded in Silicon Valley -- of business associates humiliated, of high-level employees unceremoniously dumped, of wives and girlfriends left behind -- that have earned the software billionaire a reputation for some of the jerkiest behavior in the business world. But Ellison is also a college dropout who, by smarts and sheer force of will, built Oracle into a technology behemoth and briefly, by some accounts, passed his archrival Bill Gates to become the world's richest person.
 Ellison's life has the makings of a great biography. But the burden is to capture both of Ellison's sides, the brilliant dreamer and the coldhearted schemer. Two new biographies have arrived, one based on unprecedented access to Ellison, the other largely on interviews with disgruntled former employees. Both books are illuminating. Still, it's too bad the authors didn't collaborate, because taken together, the more than 800 pages they have produced add up to a fascinating character study.
 Ellison was born on the Lower East Side in 1944 to a Jewish teenager and an Italian-American air force pilot, to whom she was not married. Unable to raise him on her own, she gave him up to an aunt in Chicago. Ellison grew up believing that his great-aunt Lillian was his mother, and her husband, Louis, his father. Louis Ellison never tired of telling his adoptive son he would come to nothing. For much of Ellison's early life, he seemed resolved to proving him right. After a lackadaisical high school career, he treaded water at the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago and then headed west.
 Ellison began as a programmer, but quickly got the entrepreneurial bug. While working for a data storage company, he met two other programmers he wanted to go into business with. All their company needed was a product. Ellison stumbled on relational database theory, which held that if data could be stored in computers in a less ''hierarchical'' way, it would be easier to find and use. I.B.M. was doing pioneering research on the subject, but doubted relational databases were commercially viable. Ellison put together a prototype and made his first sale to the C.I.A. 
 I.B.M. was wrong, and Ellison was right. Relational databases were the future, and Ellison's company, which by now had the forward-looking name Oracle, was on the cutting edge. After winning some marquee-name clients -- Navy Intelligence and the National Security Agency were early purchasers -- Oracle had a successful initial public offering in 1986. Ellison, who declared a ''war on complexity,'' turned Oracle into a world leader in producing software that runs large organizations. Oracle is not a household name because consumers are rarely the end users of its software, but anyone who has bought a book on Amazon or placed a bid on eBay has relied on its technology. 
 Over the next few years, Oracle found itself not only on the cutting edge of data storage technology, but often on what Silicon Valley calls the bleeding edge: the point where innovation leads to embarrassing, costly failures. Oracle, these books tell us, acquired a reputation for selling software not yet ready for use, and for blaming customers when things went wrong. In the early 1990's, those and other mistakes caught up with Oracle: in the first quarter of 1991, it reported a $36 million loss and was forced to restate its financial results. Its market cap fell by $3 billion, and it laid off 10 percent of its domestic workforce.
 In 1992, Oracle brought in Ray Lane, a consultant, to head up United States sales. Lane, who went on to become the company's president, was shocked to hear stories of customers calling to complain about bad software and getting answers like ''Bummer, dude!'' While Lane was reworking operations, and ramping up the sales division, Ellison focused on the big picture. In the mid-1990's, when Microsoft was still not seeing the Internet's importance, Ellison pushed Oracle to switch over to web-based data storage software. +
 It was a brilliant move, and Oracle rode the Internet to new heights. Ellison was now appearing on magazine covers and gaining celebrity for competing in the America's Cup. But despite Lane's important contributions, eventually he, too, would be gone -- the most prominent of a long line of executives forced out with little explanation.
 Matthew Symonds, the political editor of The Economist, wrote his book, ''Softwar,'' with Ellison's cooperation, and the access he got is apparent. This can sound like fun: ''The next day we're in London at his favorite hotel, the Lanesborough,'' Symonds writes at one point. More important, this access gives the reader a rare window on Ellison's mind. Speaking of his three failed marriages, he says ruefully: ''There's a criminal law in California called three strikes and you're out. . . . Maybe after three marriages, you shouldn't be allowed a fourth.'' Symonds is adept at the technology, and provides gritty detail on the relative merits of various types of database geekery.
 The book employs an odd but effective technique of allowing Ellison to comment on the text in footnotes. A few of Ellison's interpositions take genuine issue: when Tom Siebel, one of Oracle's most successful sales managers, is quoted saying he left in part because of Oracle's deficient ''ethical standards,'' Ellison rejoins that he left ''because he thought the big-money days were over.'' Other footnotes are offbeat, like Ellison's unhappy memory of having to rename his boat because journalists kept pointing out that the Shinto deity Izanami, spelled backward, is ''I'm a Nazi.''
 But Ellison's critics may find that the text does not give Ellison enough to object to. Symonds is generally willing to give his subject the benefit of the doubt, or to assume he has grown as a person since his worst behavior. Ellison's newfound sensitivity would come as news to, say, the employees of PeopleSoft. When Ellison announced a hostile takeover bid for his software rival last summer, there were widespread reports that he intended to scrap all of its products -- he was interested in acquiring its customer base -- and fire many of its 12,000 employees.
 Karen Southwick's book ''Everyone Else Must Fail'' is, as its title suggests, squarely in the ''if you have nothing nice to say, pull up a chair'' school. Southwick, a technology journalist, builds her Ellison portrait in large part on the diatribes of people he has shoved aside. Readers looking for sinister snapshots will not be disappointed. At one conference, Southwick reports, Ellison displayed a photograph of a rival company's headquarters and told his sales staff: ''We're going to run them out of business and buy that building, which we're going to bulldoze. After that, we'll salt the earth. Then we'll go after their families.'' Her account is shorter, however, on descriptions of what Oracle's software does -- information Symonds offers in abundance -- and appreciation of the genius that went into building such a dominant company.
 Oracle has been going through a rough spell in the last few years. That could be because of Sept. 11 and the weak economy, but Southwick argues that Ellison's combative nature may finally be catching up with the company. ''With the complexity of the technology world and the unavoidable requirement to forge interrelationships with partners, customers, even competitors,'' Southwick asks, ''does Ellison's shortcoming now become a fatal flaw?''
 Ellison's competitiveness and aggression may have helped Oracle get where it is today, but in thinking about whether they are a long-term strategy, he may want to contemplate the most famous prophecy of his company's namesake. When King Croesus wanted to attack neighboring Persia, he consulted the oracle of Delphi. If the king attacked, the oracle said, he would succeed in destroying a mighty empire. Croesus did attack and did destroy an empire -- his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (88%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%); AIR FORCES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%); EXECUTIVES (55%); ARRESTS (53%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); APPLE INC (85%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (93%); STEVEN JOBS (56%); BILL GATES (55%) Adam Cohen; Larry Ellison; Matthew Symonds; Karen Southwick

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



342 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: $1-a-Year Lease Seals Move of Stowe House

BYLINE: By DICK AHLES

 BODY:
THE dismantled Litchfield house in which Harriet Beecher Stowe, the author of ''Uncle Tom's Cabin,'' was born, will be reconstructed, not in Litchfield where it was built in 1774, but in nearby Torrington.
 Torrington's city council has approved a 99-year lease of a city-owned, 90-acre tract to the Beecher House Society for a dollar a year. All that is needed to complete the project, however, is $20 million. 
 The land is near the foundation of the childhood home of another historic figure in the anti-slavery movement before the Civil War, John Brown. The Brown homestead burned to the ground in the early 20th century, but the site has been maintained and developed by the Torrington Historical Society.
 The Beecher house was purchased from a private school more than six years ago by Chandler Saint, a preservationist who intended to dismantle it and rebuild it in Litchfield as a museum to be known as the Beecher House Center for the History of Equal Rights. 
 After years of sometimes contentious discussions, and a referendum that rejected construction of the house in Litchfield, Mr. Saint and the Beecher House Society were offered the Torrington land.
 Mr. Saint said the society planned to raise the $20 million for construction and endowment from foundations, the private sector and other sources now that the group had a site. 
 The property is across University Drive from the Torrington branch of the University of Connecticut, which is in a partnership with the Beecher House Society and Yale's Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance and Abolition to develop programs for the center.
 In the city's lease there are several safeguards designed to ''protect the best interests of the taxpayers'' and ''ensure that the project is completed within a reasonable time frame.'' The society must submit a master plan within two years and begin construction within a year after the plan is approved. The center must be open to the public within 10 years, or the land will revert to the city.
 A study by UConn's Center for Economic Analysis concluded that the center could attract 18,000 visitors who would spend about $2.7 million on lodging, dining and shopping in the Torrington area annually.
 ''I like the idea of it,'' Mayor Owen Quinn of Torrington said.
 Mr. Quinn said he saw the project as ''an exciting opportunity for Torrington that could transform the University of Connecticut at Torrington into a center for American studies and bring economic benefits to the city.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chandler Saint, below, wanted to rebuild the Harriet Beecher Stowe house in Litchfield, where it was built in 1774 (and dismantled, above, in 1997), but he will move it to Torrington after getting a 99-year lease. (Photo by Don Heiny)
 (Photo by Joseph Kugielsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORY (75%); SLAVERY (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); REFERENDUMS (52%) Historic Buildings and Sites; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%) Beecher House Society

PERSON: Harriet Beecher (1811-96) Stowe; Dick Ahles; Chandler Saint

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Torrington (Conn); Litchfield (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



343 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2601 words

HEADLINE: Moving Up Without Moving On

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
INCREASING numbers of homeowners in neighborhoods across the city are deciding that the grass is greener on their own side of the fence, choosing to sink significant amounts of money into alterations or expansions rather than move on to grander addresses or the suburbs. 
 There is, of course, nothing new about remodeling: the caveman probably redid his den periodically. But although no comprehensive data on such alterations is kept, architects, contractors and lenders say the pace of such construction is accelerating, especially in neighborhoods where single-family and semiattached homes predominate in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. 
 ''We're seeing a lot more people renovating rather than moving because they know what they have,'' said Mitchell Kersch, president of the Major Homes Corporation, a remodeling concern with offices in Bayside, Queens, and Albertson on Long Island. ''You can't go more than two blocks in Queens without seeing a Dumpster in front of a house, and right now we are approximately 10 to 11 months behind in heavy construction.'' 
 Keith Steier, president of Knockout Renovation Services in Brooklyn, said, ''It is happening in all neighborhoods.'' '' Among the communities he cited were ''Flatbush, Bay Ridge, Bensonhurst, Dyker Heights, even Canarsie and Gravesend.''
 The wave of improvement, urban planners, lenders, architects, contractors and homeowners themselves agree, is the result of several factors converging: low interest rates, soaring resale prices and depleted inventory. 
 ''People are going out and looking at what it would cost to relocate,'' said Butch Galante, president of the Home Improvement Contractors of Staten Island, ''and what they would get in a larger home and saying, 'I don't want to move where I have to spend a lot of money to get where I am now on decorating and landscaping.' ''
 That does not mean people are skimping on the alterations they are doing on their homes. Douglas Pratt and his wife, MaryAnn, for example, set out to add a fireplace and bathroom to their one-story ranch in Bayside, Queens, and ended up with a two-story center-hall colonial.
 The disparity in taxes from one community to another has significant impact as well. ''Even though there was a tax increase of 18 percent in the city last year,'' said John Calcagnile, an architect in Howard Beach, Queens, ''you can do a mansion and taxes will still be affordable compared to Nassau County. The taxes here will be about $4,000 to $6,000, compared to $10,000 to $15,000 on Long Island.''
 Taxes aside, homeowners tempted to look elsewhere are finding that no matter how much their houses have appreciated, the prospect of reaping huge profits on the resale market would still leave them hard pressed to find something of equal value.
 ''People are staying put because if they were to sell they would probably have to take a lesser house than the one they own,'' said Richard Russell, president and chief executive of the Richland Equity Resources Corporation, a mortgage brokerage. ''A lateral move now is a step down and if you step up, you have to pay at least 25 to 30 percent more.''

Bayside, Queens
Instead of High Taxes, Major Rehabilitation
 Roseann and Anthony Chiappano of Bayside, Queens, reached that conclusion after a short-lived foray into the market. ''We were considering Nassau, where the bigger homes are, but the taxes will kill you,'' said Mrs. Chiappano, a retired bookkeeper whose husband owns a foreign auto parts business. ''We found something in New Hyde Park that was acceptable, but the taxes were $18,000 -- and that was for a condo. We deliberated and decided to stay here, do a rehab and get the kind of house we wanted for minimal cost compared to moving and taxes.''
 Such extensive work was done on the house they have lived in for 20 years that, Mrs. Chiappano said, ''what started out as a Cape no longer is. I don't even know what to call it.
 ''We knocked down walls in the living room to make it bigger; gave up a bedroom on the first floor to make a great room; put in a new level with three bedrooms, including a master suite with double doors and a closet as big as a separate room, a guest room and a gym.''
 Describing the gym, she said: ''After years of buying equipment on TV, I now have enough to fill up the room, but honestly I don't use it. I just dust it.'' She also has an air-jet bathtub used for bubble baths.
 The cost of the project, which was completed late last year, was $110,000. ''But people have already come to me offering $700,000, and several neighbors have been so excited by my house that they copied it,'' she said. Had they put her house on the market, she said, they would probably have asked for $500,000 before the improvements. 
 The Chiappanos took out a home equity loan to pay for the work. ''All the numbers fell together,'' she said. ''We can live in luxury and be comfortable with the payments. And when it comes time to move, we will get a nice penny for it.''
 From moderate income to affluent, many people are following the same path, plowing savings from refinanced mortgages and home equity loans back into their houses. 
 Simply put, Mr. Kersch said: ''Money is cheap. A house that was worth $300,000 four or five years ago is now worth $500,000. So the owners have $200,000 in equity on which they can borrow at 4 or 5 percent.'' 
 Mr. Kersch, who said his business had doubled in the last two years, does not delude himself about what will happen when interest rates inevitably start to climb again. ''I've been at this long enough so I can see the trend,'' he said. ''As soon as the interest rates go up, the amount of work will go down.'' 
 Favorable financial conditions are, of course, not the only impetus to break through walls, add stories or upgrade kitchens and bathrooms. In some communities, like Crown Heights and Borough Park in Brooklyn, with large Orthodox Jewish populations, the need for space for families with many children is always pressing. In addition, members of ethnic or religious groups tend to cluster and do not want to leave, no matter how easily they could afford to relocate.
 A decision to remain in place also reflects a more positive view of the city, in the opinion of Barry Hersh, associate director of the Newman Real Estate Institute at Baruch College. 
 ''If you think the neighborhood is iffy, you don't invest in it,'' he said. ''But if you think it is going in the right direction, then you increase your investment.'' 
 That attitude, in turn, can spread from one house and one block to the next. ''People in little Capes next to million dollar mansions are saying, 'My house is no longer worth $300,000, but $600,000, so why not put something wonderful in and stay there,' '' said Rikk Davidson, president of As You Wish Construction, Kitchens and Bath Design in Bayside, Queens. 
 One effect of these trends: what was traditionally viewed as the ''starter house'' is no longer always the first step on a ladder of progressively costlier dwellings but can be an end itself, subject to substantial transformation. 
 Depending on the materials used, Mr. Davidson estimated that the average bathroom redo can cost $10,000 to $20,000; a kitchen makeover, $15,000 to $50,000 or more (he recently did one for $175,000); deck, $3,000 to $10,000; and exterior, $5,000 to $30,000. ''It's very easy to spend over $100,000, and sometimes it amazes me what people will spend,'' he said. 
 Mr. Calcagnile, who says that he has redesigned more houses than he can count during his 20 years in Howard Beach, said one of the most frequent requests made by clients is to expand. 
 ''Everyone wants to max out what they are legally permitted to do, and people say to me, 'I bought this one-story ranch or Cape, and I want you to design it to make it as big as possible with as many bedrooms as possible,' '' he said. ''They may be on a tight piece of property, but they want a mini-mansion. Everyone is looking for four bedrooms, three bathrooms, beautiful kitchens, family rooms, in-ground swimming pools, detached garages.'' 
 David Rees, who owns David Rees Appraisals and who inspects properties throughout the city, said: ''They also want all the high-end interior finishes. They're putting in triple-pane windows, expensive hardwood floors and marble floors, European kitchens with commercial ranges, Sub-Zero refrigerators, stainless steel. 
 ''What you've seen in Manhattan forever,'' he said, ''you're seeing in the boroughs now.''

Fort Greene, Brooklyn
Through a Window To the Refrigerator
 Not all alterations, of course, are done for cosmetic reasons. For 23 years, Peter Barna, acting provost of Pratt Institute, who is a professor of industrial design, and his wife, Myonggi Sul, an associate professor of interior design there, had to duck down and go through a four-and-a-half-foot-tall opening that had once been a window frame to get to their refrigerator because it sat in an unheated shed behind their house in Fort Greene.
 (The original kitchen in the 12-foot-wide 19th-century town house was in the basement, with the refrigerator in the shed. Some years ago, the kitchen was moved upstairs to the back of the house, but it remained unheated.)
 ''My wife always wanted to live someplace else, in a loft or some other kind of space,'' Mr. Barna said, explaining why they had not modernized the kitchen until now. 
 ''But now with property values, the truth is that we couldn't afford to buy a house comparable to ours today, so renovating allows us to bring it to where we want to be,'' he said. ''The neighborhood has changed tremendously and it is a wonderful place to be.''
 The Barna kitchen was left where it was, but it is now entirely encased in an extension to the house and the shed has been demolished. ''It has a large floor-to-ceiling window looking into the garden, radiant heat in the floor, a new fridge, cooktop, dishwasher, disposal, and where there was a mud room below, we have a nice laundry room,'' Mr. Barna said. 
 In addition, the couple cleaned and repointed the exterior bricks, replaced the roof and put in new skylights. ''Now we are very happy and comfortable,'' he said. 
 The renovation cost $80,000, raised by refinancing what remained of the mortgage and tapping into home equity. 
 The house -- which Mr. Barna bought for $70,000 when he was a graduate student at Pratt before Fort Greene became a desirable location -- is probably worth $850,000 to $900,000 today, he estimated. 
 Noelia Gomez, a portfolio administrator for an investment advisory firm, wanted to sell the single-story ranch house she and her husband, Johnny, have owned for about seven years in Bellerose, Queens, and move on. 
 ''I was thinking maybe I wanted a bigger backyard, more privacy and more closet space,'' she said. ''But my husband didn't want to move, so instead we decided, 'Let's fix up this place and make it more livable.' ''
 About 70 years old, the house, on a small plot was basic: it had two bedrooms and one bathroom. The Gomezes had the bathroom gutted, insulated and tiled and added a pedestal sink. 
 ''I liked the result so much I decided to do the kitchen, where I only had maybe 16 inches of counter space,'' Mrs. Gomez said. ''Now I have a lot more, plus stainless steel appliances, granite countertops and a rustic porcelain floor. Then, we insulated the dining room, Sheetrocked it and painted it.''
 Still on tap: a deck and an upgraded basement. So far, the Gomezes have spent about $60,000. ''We just got a letter,'' she said, ''saying it was assessed at $200,000 and change. Next year, they say, it will go up to $300,000.''
 Similarly, Neil and Shelley Harwayne briefly contemplated selling their waterfront house in the Tottenville section of Staten Island when they retired from their jobs, he as deputy superintendent of alternative high schools in the New York City school system, she as a regional superintendent in charge of more than half the public schools in Manhattan. 
 ''We never considered moving away but faced the question, 'Do we keep this big house or move to a small condo?' '' Mr. Harwayne said. ''We have an apartment in Manhattan and thought of buying a bigger one there.'' In the end, though, they decided they could not leave their 1905 beachfront Victorian.
 They first tackled the kitchen, which Mr. Harwayne described as ''very tiny.'' He added: ''If we spread our arms, we would touch the walls and cabinets, so we decided to expand that. One thing led to another and another and another, and we ended up adding 600 square feet, obviously not just kitchen.'' 
 They broke through walls and added a family room, among other improvements. Mr. Harwayne would not say how much he had spent, nor how much the house is now worth. But he did say, ''The house next door was sold for $690,000 last year, and the new owners tore it down.'' 

Park Slope, Brooklyn
Readying a Home For Old Age
 The process of redoing his home has been more evolutionary for Henry Bertoni, chairman of the department of electrical and computer engineering at Polytechnic University, who has owned a 120-year-old, two-family house in Park Slope for 25 years. Now he, and his wife, Helene Ebenstein, director of the Caregiver Resource Center at Mount Sinai Hospital, are starting an alteration on the first floor, where her mother lived until her death last year. 
 ''My wife and I have decided to reoccupy the whole house, and part of the renovation is to make the ground floor into a comfortable space with a place for the television and couch, a bedroom, a nice big bath and sliding doors to the yard,'' he said. Work on the project began on Monday. 
 In addition, the couple will take down some walls, install central air-conditioning and convert the heating system. On the parlor floor they intend to remove walls between the dining and living room and the hallway to open up the space. 
 Although the project will cost about $100,000, the decision was not monetary. ''One of the things I learned from having taken care of my mother-in-law and my mother, who is 96, is that the city is an extremely good place for elderly people,'' Mr. Bertoni said. ''You can walk and get all kinds of services to take care of yourself. So we intend to stay here.'' 
 Douglas Pratt, who owns a company that builds Laundromats, always dreamed of having a fireplace and a master bedroom with its own bathroom, but the ranch house he and his wife, MaryAnn, bought in Bayside in 1998 had neither. 
 ''While we were looking at the house, we had the feeling it might not be perfect, but knew we couldn't pass it up because of the size of the property, one-third of an acre, which is big for Queens,'' Mr. Pratt said. 
 Still, he yearned for the fireplace but explained, ''We couldn't just tack it on because it would have stuck out in the backyard.'' 
 So while they were at the renovation, he said, ''we took off the roof, added a second floor and now $300,000 later, we have a center hall colonial, not a ranch, and went from 1,800 square feet and three bedrooms to 4,100 square feet and five bedrooms. 
 ''Everything in the house has changed, and this year we are putting in a pool,'' he said. ''We keep throwing money into the house, not so much as an investment but because we don't want to go anywhere else. So we figure, 'Let's make it as enjoyable as possible.' ''
 The Pratts paid $605,000 for the house and put in another $300,000. ''I have been told that after the pool, it will be worth about $1.6 million,'' Mr. Pratt said. ''I can't see people spending $1.6 million in Queens, but then I couldn't imagine myself spending $600,000 five years ago.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas and MaryAnn Pratt spent $300,000 in converting their 1,800 square foot ranch in Bayside, Queens, into a colonial with 4,100 square feet. (Photos by Top: Mia Aigotti for The New York Times
Douglas Pratt)(pg. 1)
The refrigerator in the home of Peter L. Barna and Myonggi Sul in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, used to be in a shed in the backyard, left, reached through a former exterior window in the unheated kitchen, center. A renovation extended the kitchen, top, to include the space where the shed once stood. (Photo by Top and bottom right: Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times
bottom left and center: Photographs courtesy of Peter L. Barna)
Neil and Shelley Harwayne expanded over garage in a renovation that added a family room at their 1905 house in Tottenville on Staten Island. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 MaryAnn and Douglas Pratt in front of a long-desired fireplace. They got it as part of a renovation that more than doubled their home's area. (Photo by Mia Aigotti for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HOME REMODELING (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); EXISTING HOME SALES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Home Repairs and Improvements

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Nadine Brozan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



344 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: The Lost History Of a Woodworker

BYLINE: By R.W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
IN 18th-century Connecticut, the multitude of products made from wood were part of every human life, from hello to goodbye. The woodworker was the indispensable artisan, the go-to guy of village commerce.
 For example, in December 1760, Ezra Bryan, a woodworker with a shop in Newtown, made a cradle for the Glover family and a coffin for a widow, Mrs. Bloodgood. His fee was eight shillings for the cradle and six shillings sixpence for the coffin. 
 In December 1766, Bryan made a highboy, a lowboy, a chest with two drawers, two tables and seven chairs for Ephraim Bennit, apparently on the occasion of Mr. Bennit's marriage. This grouping cost the bridegroom more than 10 pounds.
 The next March, Bryan made ''a coffin for Ephraim Bennit's child.''
 These details of Bryan's work are found in his account book, which was discovered by Mary Silks of Woodbury, a direct descendant of the woodworker through his son Amos. She found the book in 1999 in the back of a concealed drawer at the bottom of a Victorian bureau that her mother had owned.
 When Ms. Silks, 55, realized that the document might have historical interest, she got in touch with the Newtown Historical Society. Ms. Silks said she was in the process of donating the account book to the society.
 The account book, which is complete, covers Bryan's work from 1759 to 1778, from when he was about 19 until he was about 38, and evidently building a successful business. It tells the story of that business, but also of life in Newtown, which in 1756 had a population of 1,253. And so the book is a piece of social history, like probate inventories, wills, tax lists, census records, church records, land deeds, genealogies, diaries and other documents that historians study to learn the patterns of ordinary people's lives.
 ''I wish I'd had Ezra Bryan's account book when I was writing my books,'' said Edward S. Cooke Jr., the chairman of the art history department at Yale and a specialist in American decorative arts who has studied the furniture makers of western Connecticut and written two books on the topic. They are ''Fiddlebacks and Crooked-backs: Elijah Booth and Other Joiners in Newtown and Woodbury, 1750-1820'' (Mattatuck Historical Society, 1992) and ''Making Furniture in Preindustrial America: the Social Economy of Newtown and Woodbury, Connecticut'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1996). 
 Professor Cooke explained that woodworkers like Bryan were at the center of the social and economic structures of their time and that the account book makes this plain by providing ''a series of snapshots that put him at the center of a web of relationships.'' 
 In 1760, Connecticut was an outpost colony of Great Britain. The American Revolution and the republic it created were years in the future. Men like Bryan considered themselves subjects of King George III, far away in London. Capitalism as we know it did not exist. Instead, as Professor Cooke wrote in ''Making Furniture,'' there was a ''social economy,'' or a ''web of relations and activities that preceded a capitalist economy.''
 With the resources of the seemingly endless forests at hand, woodworkers were the center of this web, Professor Cooke points out in the book. Craftsmen working with wood outnumbered all others because with their skills, they had the ability to drive progress by improving the quality of life and jump-starting commercial activity.
 Carpenters built houses, barns, fences and churches, Professor Cooke explained, while coopers fashioned barrels, shipwrights and wheelwrights made specialty items, and joiners and turners created furniture that filled homes. Conspicuous consumption appeared as rich families treated themselves to elaborate dwellings and furnishings, luxuries that consumed both time and materials.
 Village woodworkers like Bryan made and maintained an astonishing array of products that made life possible and even comfortable. It is clear from the range of furniture that he made, all noted in his account book, that he was a proficient turner as well as a skilful joiner and cabinetmaker. 
 Turners shaped wood on a lathe, joiners ''joined'' furniture parts using pinned mortise and tenon joints, while cabinetmakers used dovetails. In making a highboy, for example, Bryan would have used mortise and tenon joints as well as dovetails to fasten the various parts together.
 Bryan was born on Nov. 30, 1740, in Newtown, and died on July 17, 1825, in Dutchess County, N. Y. His Connecticut shop may have been located on the Newtown-Brookfield line on a tract of land once called Bryan's 100 acres, said Daniel Cruson, Newtown's town historian and past president of the Newtown Historical Society.
 Over the years, the account book indicates, Bryan had helpers named Daniel, Abel and Josiah. These may have been apprentices or journeymen, or even neighbors working part-time, Professor Cooke said.
 According to the account book, at the shop Bryan made chairs, tables, stands, chests, clock cases and bedsteads in a variety of styles acceptable to local tastes and pocketbooks. He made humble and utilitarian items like warming pan handles, window frames, bullet molds, cheese presses, buttons, bowls, spools for spinning wheels, molds to fashion hats, bins for storing wheat, turned handles for a range of woodworking and agricultural tools.
 Bryan and his helpers ''bottomed'' chairs, that is, wove rush seats for turned chairs he made. Bryan also helped his neighbors build houses, make wheels, lay floors and mend sleighs. In a barter economy he supplied customers with cider, tobacco and beef.
 Mr. Cruson, who has studied the account book, calculated that between 1760 and 1775, the Bryan shop made 414 chairs of various sorts, 53 chests of drawers of several different types and 80 assorted tables. 
 In ''Making Furniture,'' Professor Cooke points out that much of the major furniture work of this period was done in the winter months, since almost everyone in 18th-century Connecticut did at least some farming in the warmer months.
 ''The professional joiner could draw on a number of neighbors during the slack farming months of December, January and February to fell, score, sled, split and saw the plentiful supplies of cherry, maple, yellow poplar, oak and white pine,'' he wrote. ''Winter was the ideal time for such activity: farmers had more free time, the wood cut best at that time and logs were easily sledded on the snowy ground. Most preparation and assembly of furniture took place between harvest and spring planting.''
 In the late 1770's, Bryan, his wife, Sarah, and their children moved to Dutchess County, to a hamlet then called Nine Partners and now named Pine Plains. The Bryan family lived there for generations until Ms. Silks's mother moved a few miles east to Lakeville, Conn. in the mid-20th century. 
 Mr. Cruson said the account book needed to be conserved and rebound to insure its survival. ''When it's been conserved, the account book will be at the Newtown Library, on permanent loan from the Newtown Historical Society, where it will be available for study,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: An excerpt from Ezra Bryan's account book, which details his business as a successful woodworker. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
This chair, circa 1770-1790, is an example of work made in Newtown. Ezra Bryan, a woodworker, had a shop there in the late 18th century.
 Mary Silks, left, and Betsey Hallihan, her sister, with the account book of their ancestor, Ezra Bryan, of Newtown. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); GENEALOGY (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); FURNITURE MFG (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); CENSUS (66%); ART HISTORY (66%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Furniture

PERSON: R W Stevenson; Ezra Bryan; Mary Silks

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%) Newtown (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



345 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5; The World -- Haiti to Russia to Bosnia

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Why Democracy Defies the Urge to Implant It

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
ARKADY VOLSKY, a Soviet apparatchik who maneuvered elegantly, for a time, in the new Russia, liked to make his political points hidden in the safety of a jest. ''People say that Russia should become like Sweden,'' he once said in Moscow. ''Or like China. Or like America. But the problem is that we don't have enough Swedes. We don't have enough Chinese. We don't have enough Americans.''
 Democracy, in other words, grows out of a nation's history and experiences. It can't be inserted like a silicone implant or put on like a new hat. Nor can it be imposed, even by the most well meaning or well armed. 
 Democracy can be nurtured, even fertilized. But one need only read a few pages of Churchill's ''History of the English-Speaking Peoples'' to realize how tender a plant it is, and how aberrant. And how much it needs protective institutions, like independent courts and just laws, in which to flourish.
 Does this state the obvious? Even so, the United States and the European Union have spent billions in the name of democratization wherever their armies have roamed, and in lots of places where they haven't. 
 Democracy, a wonderful idea, scarcely needs to be force-fed; but from Iraq to Haiti, Russia to Romania, Belgrade to Kosovo, many people who embrace it haven't any real idea of what makes it work, or the kind of collective understanding of the collective good that grows over centuries and is essential to making democracy self-limiting. 
 The selling and implanting of democracy face three essential problems: institution-building, which requires time, money and commitment; making that effort palatable in a foreign land, so it is not seen as imperial; and making the effort sustainable in countries where other interests -- wars on terrorism or drugs, or maintenance of regional stability -- trump Americans' ability to face down an illiberal state.
 ''The principal struggle in all these societies is about modernization,'' said Fareed Zakaria, author of ''The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad.'' ''The idea that you can just hold elections while everything else remains feudal, medieval, means you won't get democracy but some perversion of it.''
 Stephen Kotkin, a professor of European and Asian history at Princeton and director of Russian studies there, says simply, ''It's always about the quality of governing institutions and how they work on the ground.'' When Boris N. Yeltsin took over Russia in 1992, Mr. Kotkin points out, there were 6,000 judges, trained in the old regime, and a quarter-million members of the K.G.B.
 ''How do you get rule of law?'' he asked. ''Only if the number of judges goes up and the number of agents down.'' In 12 years the number of judges has tripled, to 18,000. But about 200,000 agents of the secret police remain. By contrast, when the United States won its independence, there were more lawyers than bureaucrats. The society was stronger than the state; there was a foundation of individual rights and private property. Over time, as slaves were freed and women and blacks won civil and property rights, the liberal order has become more democratic. 
 But the effort to democratize an illiberal order -- a Russia, a former Yugoslavia, a Haiti, an Iraq -- lays elections over societies without the rooted institutions that protect democrats and democratic values. Elections by themselves don't translate into parliamentary rule or civilian control or an independent judiciary or fair taxes or protections for private property and minorities.
 The result, often, is an intellectual class beholden to the state or co-opted by it, while the state suborns or seizes or paralyzes any independent institution that becomes profitable or popular. Just look at Russia.
 When a form of democracy first came to infect the Soviet Communist Party, it blew the system apart. Free speech was used for movements, like environmentalism, that were thin disguises for popular nationalism, ethnic resentment and collective action. Democracy proved destabilizing and pulled the tottering country down. The resulting anarchy shook a people historically terrified of weak central control.
 Now Mr. Putin, the icy former spy, is about to win re-election by virtual acclamation, after jailing a rich political opponent and shutting down or confiscating independent newspapers, because he has provided a strong and respectable hand.
 In the former Yugoslavia, the effort to escape from Slobodan Milosevic's grip has produced a divided Bosnia that votes on ethnic grounds, with moderates squeezed out. In Kosovo, NATO and the United Nations have presided over a kind of gangster democracy, where minority rights are protected only in principle. And in Belgrade, the Westernized democrats are split and tainted, ultranationalists have done well, and a moderate nationalist, Vojislav Kostunica, may become prime minister with the support of Mr. Milosevic's Socialist Party. 
 Haiti has been independent about as long as the United States, so is largely untouched by feelings of anticolonialism. But Haitians can resent patronizing American efforts to teach them about democracy, as when they are told that their elected leader, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, has a disturbing tendency to terrorize the opposition. 
 The problems of the ideology of democracy are vivid in Iraq. The leader of the majority Shia Muslims, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, is demanding direct elections immediately, before a constitution is written, using the Americans' slogan against them. 
 The Americans, pushed by insurgency and terrorism and their allies to hand back sovereignty to Iraqis by July 1, are caught up in their own contradictions. They have had to appeal to the United Nations and its emissary, Lakhdar Brahimi, to try to convince Ayatollah Sistani that the world thinks direct elections now would be a mistake.
 Afghanistan is almost a better model. There, the United Nations, backed by the Americans, is trying to build democracy on an indigenous model of representation, the council of leaders (loya jirga), and to modernize it. Not just to promote elections, but to institutionalize pluralism and an existing form of federalism. 
 Creating working democracies took 400 years in the West and 40 years in East Asia, said Mr. Zakaria, who is editor of Newsweek International. ''Now we want it in four months in Iraq.'' That is why he has always supported United Nations involvement there, he said. ''They have the staying power, and they are not seen as colonial.''
 Arkady Volsky used to tell another joke, this one about hope and progress. There were two economists, an optimist and a pessimist. The pessimist said: ''Everything is terrible. It can't get any worse.''
 The optimist said: ''Yes, it can.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Russia, where a subway was bombed, above, and in Haiti, where Jean-Bertrand Aristide, left (with then Secretary of State Warren Christopher), was returned to office in 1994, democracy is a hard sell. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Peter Turnley/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); TERRORISM (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Politics and Government; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: Steven Erlanger

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (92%); SERBIA (92%); SWEDEN (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%) Russia; Serbia and Montenegro; Haiti; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



346 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2496 words

HEADLINE: Haitian Heartbeat

BYLINE: By FIELD MALONEY. 
Field Maloney is on the editorial staff of The New Yorker.

 BODY:
RICOT DUPUY got the call in the afternoon at his radio station, Radio Soleil d'Haiti, in Flatbush, Brooklyn. It was one of his regular listeners, a man whose nephew had just called from Port-au-Prince. ''The rebels have taken Gonaives,'' the man told Mr. Dupuy.
 Mr. Dupuy, Radio Soleil's 51-year-old manager and signature voice, soon took to the air. ''Mesdames et messieurs,'' he intoned in his velvety Creole. ''The rebels have taken Gonaives.'' 
 Last week, as opponents of Haiti's president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, led uprisings in more than 10 Haitian cities that led to dozens of deaths, Mr. Dupuy's words resonated in Manhattan taxicabs, in the Haitian barbershops and restaurants on Nostrand Avenue in Flatbush and in mini-mansions in Laurelton, Queens. 
 In New York's sprawling Haitian community, news travels by teledyol, Creole for word of mouth. In this city, Mr. Dupuy is teledyol.
 Crises back home and in New York are hardly new to Radio Soleil and its listeners -- Haiti is a country that has had 32 coups since 1804. And in New York, the assault on Abner Louima by police officers in 1997 and the shooting death of Patrick Dorismond by a police detective in 2000 shocked and galvanized the city's Haitian community. But even when there is no crisis, Radio Soleil, the city's first Haitian radio station, serves as a lifeline, umbilical cord and town hall of the air for New York's 200,000 Haitians.
 Near midnight last Tuesday, Mr. Dupuy paced back and forth in Radio Soleil's cramped Nostrand Avenue storefront. His eyes were red and pouched. From time to time, he collapsed into one of the armchairs in the front room. Mr. Dupuy had spent the four days since the capture of Gonaives at the station. 
 His voice, usually as smooth as a good bottle of 25-year-old Haitian rum, seemed worn and ragged. ''Gonaives is my hometown,'' he said.
 Not all nights at Radio Soleil offer the bitter adrenaline of rebellion.
 One slow, sultry evening last summer, for example, Mr. Dupuy spent several hours preparing for that night's show, gathering Internet news items to read and discuss from an eclectic pool of news media: Agence France-Presse, WINS-AM (1010), Le Monde, New York 1, The Guardian. Before going on air, he relaxed in his tiny office, his feet up on his desk, his face half-hidden behind stacks of papers and books, trash and bric-a-brac.
 The walls were crowded with framed photos of Mr. Dupuy with luminaries he has met: Mr. Aristide, Magic Johnson, Nelson Mandela, Muhammad Ali. Every now and then the phone rang. Mr. Dupuy would perk up, then answer: ''Radio Soleil! Bon soir!'' 
 Mr. Dupuy is no mere conveyor of information; his role in Brooklyn, and in the city, is a strange mix of 1940's telephone switchboard operator and the aging-don-as-neighborhood-fixer of the ''Godfather'' movies. He is also a go-between for his fellow Haitians and the puzzling, at times hostile institutions of their new home. 
 ''I spend my day answering the phone,'' said Mr. Dupuy, who has a courtly island manner and a foxlike grin. ''Seventy percent of the people that call need help with something. Sometimes young couples have disputes, and they call me to mediate. People in the community call me if they need help with city services. I'm there if there are no other doors to knock. Sometimes I try to find them the right lawyers.''
 New York and Miami share the distinction of having the world's largest communities of Haitians outside Haiti, and since Mr. Dupuy arrived in New York 33 years ago, during the first big wave of Haitian immigration, the city's Haitian community has remained fluid but steady.
 In the absence of official numbers, exactly how many Haitians listen to Radio Soleil is hard to determine. According to the station's Web site, it has ''half a million captive, dedicated listeners,'' a claim that may reveal less about actual audience size than about marketing goals.
 Haitians tend to travel a great deal between Haiti and America. Many New York Haitians even send their school-age children back to live with relatives and attend school there, Mr. Dupuy said, worried by the atmosphere in inner-city schools. But lately, as conditions in Haiti have worsened -- the average Haitian lives on less than a dollar a day -- movement between the two countries has become increasingly one-way. In a poll of Haitians last year, more than 70 percent said they would leave Haiti if they could.
 Pockets of the city's sprawling Haitian population are scattered throughout the five boroughs. But the biggest, densest and poorest Haitian neighborhood is the section of Flatbush around Nostrand and Flatbush Avenues, which is where Haitians usually land when they come to New York. 
 Some eventually move out to more prosperous and suburban Haitian enclaves in outer Queens, like Laurelton and Cambria Heights. (Laurelton, in fact, is home to many of the Duvalier-era elite. Emmanuel Constant, also called Toto, an anti-democracy paramilitary leader, was last known to be living in his mother's brick colonial there.) 
 But Mr. Dupuy swears by Flatbush. ''You've got to be in Brooklyn,'' he said. ''That's where the action is.''
 And Mr. Dupuy seems to enjoy his stature. ''Everybody knows me here,'' he said. ''Once you come here, you've got to know me.'' The city has many ethnic radio stations, but it is probably fair to say that no other immigrants pursue radio with more intensity than the city's Haitians do.

The Power of the Transistor
 In Haiti, radio is king. In modern times, whenever there is a coup, the first places to be shut down are the airports and the radio stations.
 When the father of Haitian radio, Jean Dominique -- after almost a quarter-century of antagonizing dictators, inciting popular uprisings, weathering death threats and bombings, and helping both topple and restore regimes -- was assassinated four years ago outside his Port-au-Prince radio station, he was given a state funeral in a soccer stadium. The event was attended by tens of thousands of Haitians, including Mr. Aristide. That day, the offices of Radio Soleil were filled with mourners. 
 In 1971, when Mr. Dupuy left Haiti at 19 with his mother, radio was emerging as a powerful means of grass-roots resistance. The previous decade had brought the small, cheap, battery-operated transistor radio, a godsend in a country that was then, and still, largely without electricity. Mr. Dominique had started a station, Radio Haiti Inter, that reported the news in a frank, take-no-prisoners style. 
 For Haitians, who were accustomed to a newspaper and radio culture that for decades had essentially churned out French-language press releases for the ruling Duvalier dictatorship, that approach was a revelation.
 And, as it happened, large swaths of the country's citizens had recently been given transistor radios by American Protestant missionaries. Tramping through the Haitian countryside and inner cities in search of converts, those missionaries had handed out transistor radios to poor Haitians to let them receive spiritual direction from the 24-hour evangelical programming on Radio Lumiere. 
 Despite the missionaries' intentions, Haitians soon spent more time tuned into Mr. Dominique's Radio Haiti Inter and the dozen or so small independent Haitian radio stations that had mushroomed in its wake. 
 ''The vast majority of the Haitian population is illiterate, but Haitians are very politically astute,'' said Jonathan Demme, director of a documentary about Mr. Dominique, ''The Agronomist,'' that is scheduled to open in New York in April. ''Before Jean Dominique, the airwaves were strictly French language. It was a way for the Duvaliers and the upper classes to exclude the Creole-speaking masses from radio and the national dialogue. Radio became the literature of an illiterate people.''
 Mr. Dupuy added: ''The transistor radio was a symbol of resistance. All of a sudden, under the harshest dictatorship, there was a way for people to say things they wanted to say.'' And gradually, he added, ''the transistor brought down Duvalier father and son.''
 In 1986 a popular uprising toppled Jean-Claude Duvalier, ending the Duvalier family's 28-year dictatorship. Mr. Aristide was elected president four years later.

Into the Void, a Voice
 When Mr. Dupuy arrived in New York, there were no radio stations serving the city's burgeoning Haitian community; today there are also Radio Tropicale and a few Haitian newspapers to complement Radio Soleil. Mr. Dupuy, who had dabbled in radio as a student in Haiti, soon started a show on the radio station of Medgar Evers College in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. Throughout his early years in New York -- while he worked as a bike messenger, earned a master's degree in economics and finance at Pace University in Lower Manhattan, served as host of a local public access cable show and worked in the audit department at Chemical Bank -- he was always running some kind of Haitian radio news program at various community radio stations.
 Eleven years ago, Mr. Dupuy was among the group of people who renovated the humble Nostrand Avenue storefront that is home to Radio Soleil. Friends gave them their old speakers and turntables, and they bought additional secondhand equipment. They soundproofed two back rooms with blue foam padding, hung up the red and blue Haitian flag and a large photo of Mr. Dominique, and recruited a few men and women who had worked in radio back in Haiti, and soon Radio Soleil was up and running. (Soleil leases a subcarrier channel from the Spanish station MEGA, effectively piggy-backing, at a different bandwidth -- 97.6 SCA -- off its Manhattan radio tower.)
 Jean Monfistou, a cabdriver, is a typical Radio Soleil listener. For nearly two decades Mr. Monfistou had been listening to Mr. Dupuy in his taxi, on a radio cobbled together from used parts. He went by the station to buy a radio so he could listen at home. (Because Radio Soleil broadcasts on a subcarrier channel it requires special receivers, which most of its listeners have rigged up on their own, but Mr. Dupuy also sells them, and frequently gives them away, at the station.) 
 He greeted Mr. Dupuy as if he were a celebrity. After the cabbie left, radio in hand, Mr. Dupuy said: ''The community is first. I'll drop whatever I'm doing to go out and shake their hands and talk to them. Some people get happy just to see me.''
 Fittingly, Radio Soleil was the first radio station to broadcast Mr. Dominique in the United States. And, in a sense, Mr. Dupuy, politics obsessed, a born showman and talker, emerged as Mr. Dominique's New York heir.
 Mr. Dupuy is a dogged supporter of Aristide, who he says has been undermined by a Haitian press in the lap of a dirty-handed opposition and by the antipathy of the international community. 
 But for some New York Haitians, Mr. Aristide's presidency is a subject of debate. Down the street from Radio Soleil, a straw poll of a group of Haitian men hanging out in a laundry indicated that Mr. Aristide must go. When told of this, Mr. Dupuy sniffed that they had been found in what was probably ''an anti-Aristide Laundromat.'' 
 He added: ''Millions of Haitians support Aristide. Forcing him to leave goes against every notion of democratic fairness. The guy was elected. The Haitian Constitution has to be the arbiter.''

'Talking Is a Drug'
 As the offices of Radio Soleil are a shrine to teledyol, it seems appropriate that they also function as a community hangout and social club, a place where radio is piped into the rooms and pours out onto the sidewalk through funky little speakers. Impromptu groups of Haitian men, and a few women, are always gathered in the front room, lounging on two worn sofas under the Haitian flag and chatting away in Creole. 
 On long summer nights -- the closest Brooklyn ever comes to Haiti, when the streets of Flatbush become most alive -- the crowd spills out onto the street in front of the storefront, the men leaning on parked cars, the women rocking baby strollers along the curb. 
 On one such evening, Mr. Dupuy sat in his office, shirtsleeves rolled up, fanning himself with a newspaper. He complained of fatigue, of all the people who needed to see him. He had only 10 minutes to talk, he said, but soon close to an hour had passed, and he was reminiscing about his days in amateur theater in Haiti. 
 ''I love Ionesco,'' he said. ''I love the theater of the absurd. Life is absurd. We talk because we are afraid of silence. Talking is a drug.''
 Later, there was a knock on his door, and a clean-cut young man in a leather jacket and khakis entered. Each day, short obituaries of community members are read over the air, accompanied by traditional music of mourning. The young man, speaking perfect English, told Mr. Dupuy that he was waiting for his father, and that they had a death announcement to give him. 
 Soon, a thin, wrinkled man in a white guayabera came in. He greeted Mr. Dupuy, grabbing him by the shoulder as he shook his hand. The country frankness in his manner contrasted with his son's urban reserve. The son hung back as his father and Mr. Dupuy spoke in Creole.
 Finally, the son spoke up: ''The police came to our house on Tuesday. They had found my older brother's body in the woods in Prospect Park. He had been strangled. We don't know when, perhaps Monday night.''
 Mr. Dupuy took down the obituary as the old man read the words he wanted from a crumpled piece of notebook paper, and then escorted the men out. 
 Back at his desk, he shook his head and let out a low, sad whistle. ''Strangled at 28 in the bushes in Prospect Park,'' he said. ''There were all kinds of questions the journalist in me wanted to ask back there.'' But, he added, his job is to serve the community, and please the family of the deceased. ''So I just listened, and made sure I got the spellings and the facts right.''
 With his homeland in free fall, Ricot Dupuy is grappling with how to live up to Mr. Dominique's ideal that ''radio could hold a mirror up to the Haitian people, so they could bring about social change in their own country.''
 For Mr. Dupuy, for all Haitians, nothing they can see in that mirror seems clear, or hopeful. Last Thursday night, after finishing his show, Mr. Dupuy shook his head and considered the day's news:
 In Saint-Marc, the police had shot their way through a slum where rebels were holed up, providing cover for burning and looting by Aristide loyalists. In Cap Haitien, pro-Aristide militants torched the house of a reporter for the opposition Radio Maxima. In Gonaives, rebels killed a man suspected of being an Aristide hit man by ''necklacing'' him -- putting a tire around his neck, dousing him in kerosene and setting him on fire. 
 ''Thirty years of military brutality in Haiti under the Duvaliers is something no one can comprehend if you have not lived through it,'' a weary Mr. Dupuy said. ''It left deep scars on every Haitian. With Aristide, we thought, 'Never again. That would never happen in my country again.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wearing a baseball cap with the Haitian flag, Ricot Dupuy, above, is the stations moving force. At left, an anti-Aristide rebel in the Haitian city Gonaves last week. (Photo by Above, Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times
below, Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. 1)
Two anchors announcing the news at Radio Soleil, top
 Haitians gathering at a barbershop near the station to watch President Aristide, and above, Ricot Dupuy, the station manager. ''Everybody knows me here,'' he says of the city's Haitian community. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); COUPS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%) Radio; Haitian-Americans

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Radio Soleil D'haiti (Nyc)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Ricot Dupuy; Field Maloney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



347 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Workers Surges In Policing Cybertechnology

BYLINE: By ELLEN RAPP

 BODY:
ROBERT GOLDSTEIN was a network and systems engineer at On Money, a financial services company in New York, when he lost his job in 2001 in the technology downturn. But unlike many in his industry, Mr. Goldstein bounced back quickly. He is now working as an information technology security consultant, and last year his earnings rose 20 percent. 
 Computer viruses, identity and information theft, and other kinds of computer crime are no longer exotic problems, and the demand for information technology security specialists reflects that change, according to experts in employment in the field. 
 ''We are seeing a greater demand for I.T. security professionals than ever before,'' said Jerry Brennan, president of Security Management Resources, a recruiting firm in Warrenton, Va. According to a recent survey by Secure Enterprise Computing, an information security company in North Carolina, 35 percent of United States companies expect to add dedicated information technology security staff members within the next two years.
 The CERT Coordination Center at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, which collects information on Internet security, said it had received 137,529 reports of computer security problems worldwide from individual and corporate computer users in 2003, roughly six times the number of incidents reported in 2000.
 And according to a survey by the Computer Security Institute, an information security membership association, viruses and other computer crime cause, on average, economic losses of $803,000 per company in the United States. 
 Career experts say that the growth of the information technology security industry accelerated after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The creation of the Department of Homeland Security in response to the attacks led directly to an increase in the number of government workers focused on digital security. 
 In general, ''9/11 made people much more aware of the importance of security, including the need to protect against cyberterrorism,'' and contributed to an increase in information technology security jobs in the private sector, said Joyce Brocaglia, chief executive of Alta Associates, a recruitment firm based in Flemington, N.J., specializing in information security. 
 Mark Stenberg, president and founder of Career Center, an employment training company in New York City, said, ''There are thousands of these jobs available in the New York area alone.'' Even job seekers with no information technology background can, in less than a year, become certified security professionals in network or wireless computer systems, he said. Computers connected wirelessly create a greater potential security risk than network computers, so wireless security is a particularly fast growing field, Mr. Stenberg said.
 Siby Anthony, the chief executive of Marlabs, a software development company in Edison, N.J., has increased his information technology security staff by almost 10 percent in the last two years. ''As security systems become more and more sophisticated -- such as technology to recognize hand or face prints -- the need for skilled workers will continue,'' he said. He has no immediate plans to hire more workers, he said, but added that it was possible. 
 John McClurg, vice president for security at Lucent Technologies in New Jersey, explained why the need will continue to grow. ''Information technology is ever evolving, and with each new technology there is always an entrepreneurial bad guy who will find out how to use that technology in an illicit fashion,'' he said. The culprit can be anyone from a business rival, to an unhappy former employee, to a hacker who breaks into a corporation's system to shut it down ''just for the conquest and thrill of it,'' he said.
 Mr. Goldstein, the consultant, attributes the growth of his business to the introduction of Microsoft's Windows 2003, along with companies' increased use of new computer technology. ''Now that it's a bull market, companies are spending more to have the latest technological advances, and they need to hire people with the expertise to protect those systems,'' he said. This has kept him so busy, he said, that for several months in the fall he worked 12-day stretches with only two days off between them.
 ''Any business that relies on the Internet, and today that means just about every business, is going to seek out I.T. security professionals, either on a consulting or a full-time basis,'' said Mr. Brennan of Security Management Resources. Indeed, Robert Dao, a former information technology security specialist for the United States Air Force who is now a program manager for the Secure Information Corporation, which provides information technology security services, said, ''There's not a 30-day period that goes by that I don't get calls regarding career opportunities.'' 
 The field of information technology security encompasses a variety of specialties, from policy and strategy formulation to disaster-recovery management.
 One of the fastest-growing job areas in the field, according to Mr. Brennan, is forensic, or investigative, security, which focuses on learning how digital crimes are committed, gathering evidence of such crimes and collaborating with law enforcement on prosecuting such cases. He said demand for forensic security experts increased 20 percent in 2003. 
 Ms. Brocaglia of Alta Associates says she has seen job openings for senior-level information security officers increase by nearly 50 percent in the second half of 2003, when 57 companies contacted her company to hire information security professionals -- up from 39 companies in the first half of the year.
 ''The market has changed dramatically,'' with the greatest demand coming from the financial services industry, she said. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, legislation intended to prevent corporate financial scandals, has contributed to the growth of technology security officers in financial services, she added. 
 While salaries ''have not grown tremendously in recent years, given the economy,'' she said, information technology security remains a lucrative field, with many experienced professionals earning $150,000 to $200,000 a year. Some earn much more: In New York City, high ranking information technology security officers in financial firms can command incomes ''approaching seven figures,'' she said.
 As the need for information technology security has increased, the profession has changed, according to Ms. Brocaglia. ''Companies used to look strictly for people with tech skills, but now they want people who have corporate skills as well,'' she said. 
 ''As a result, the role of information security officers has been elevated. Today you can find them in the boardroom, making executive-level presentations. At most corporations, the stereotypical I.T. geek in jeans and a flannel shirt has become a thing of the past.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: After being left unemployed by the Internet bust, Robert Goldstein was able to find new work in information technology security, where he serves as a consultant. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (94%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TERRORISM (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); CYBERCRIME (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CYBERTERRORISM (76%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems

COMPANY: MARLABS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: Ellen Rapp

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



348 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15; Your Taxes

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: A New Law Means More Than Bigger Refunds

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
THE tax law enacted last May may be compared to a dinner with two desserts. First, just in time for back-to-school shopping last summer, came a flurry of checks -- $400 a child -- for people who had claimed the child credit on their 2002 returns. Second, within weeks, millions of Americans will start receiving ''bigger refunds than ever before,'' predicted Sidney Kess, a tax lawyer and accountant in New York. 
 A main reason for the plump refunds is that tax rates were lowered retroactively to the beginning of 2003, but withholding from paychecks was not reduced until July 1, Mr. Kess explained. In addition, the standard deduction for married couples who do not itemize deductions was increased to $9,500, twice that for single filers and up from $7,850 on 2002 returns, meaning that millions of couples will discover this filing season that their tax liabilities are lower than usual. 
 The new tax law, formally named the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, is complex. It achieved the tax reductions for last year and this year by accelerating rate cuts that under a 2001 tax law would have been phased in gradually over the next several years. Similarly, the increase in the child credit to $1,000 from $600 -- that $400 increase accounted for the checks last summer -- came from accelerating a provision of the 2001 law. But that law has a sunset provision: after 2010, the tax code is to revert to where it was before the 2001 act was signed. And some of the benefits of the 2003 law are even shorter-lived. The $1,000 child credit and the higher standard deduction for couples both expire at the end of 2004, not long after the election this fall.
 The biggest breaks of the 2003 law, however, are not scheduled for a quick demise. Investors, no matter how rich, now owe a maximum tax of only 15 percent on what the law calls ''qualified dividends,'' generally those from stocks or stock-based mutual funds, and on long-term capital gains from sales after May 5, 2003.
 Following are some of the law's important provisions and how they affect tax returns this season and financial planning for the longer term:

THE CHILD CREDIT -- A tax credit of $1,000 is available for each qualifying child under the age of 17 to joint filers with adjusted gross income of $110,000 or less and to single filers or heads of household with $75,000 or less. It phases out as incomes rise.
 Because the checks last summer were based on 2002 returns, some recipients may not qualify for them in 2003, said Bob D. Scharin, a senior editor at RIA, a provider of tax information. For example, the child may no longer be a dependent, or the taxpayers' 2003 incomes may have been too high. So must they return the money? No, they can keep it, Mr. Scharin said.
 Conversely, some people first became eligible for the credit last year, either because a child was born or otherwise became their dependent in 2003 or because their income fell. In that case, they can claim the credit on their tax returns, even though they did not receive the check, Mr. Scharin said. Credits reduce taxes dollar for dollar.

LOWER RATES -- The top tax rate, previously 38.6 percent, fell to 35 percent last year; the 35 percent rate was cut to 33 percent; the 30 percent rate dropped to 28 percent; and the 27 percent rate fell to 25 percent. The 15 percent and 10 percent rates were unchanged, but the cutoff points for incomes eligible for those rates were increased. For 2003 and 2004, the 10 percent bracket applies to taxable income of up to $7,000 for single individuals and of up to $14,000 for married couples filing jointly. The 15 percent bracket covers taxable income of $14,001 to $56,800 for married couples filing jointly and of $7,001 to $28,400 for single filers.
 Joanne E. Johnson, a managing director and wealth adviser at the J.P. Morgan Private Bank in New York City, said, ''The reduction in rates was the biggest change in the law.'' Ms. Johnson, a lawyer, added that because rates fell, ''people may want to defy conventional wisdom and accelerate income and defer deductions like charitable contributions.'' The point would be to pay taxes at today's relatively low rates, especially the 15 percent rate on long-term capital gains, and to take deductions later, when rates may have climbed.
 ''By definition, the law says rates are going up,'' she said, referring to the sunset provision of the 2001 law, and rates could be raised even sooner to cover the deficit and the war in Iraq, especially if the Democrats take power in Washington.
 Ms. Johnson's advice in a nutshell is ''think defensively.''

INVESTMENTS -- The new rules on long-term capital gains and dividends sound simple enough. For capital gains, the rates are 15 percent, down from 20 percent for most taxpayers, and 5 percent, down from 10 percent for people in the 10 and 15 percent tax brackets. The same 5 and 15 percent rates apply to qualified dividends, like those on stocks or on stock mutual funds. Previously, dividends, like interest, were taxed as ordinary income.
 The reduced rates on investments have led investors to rethink much of their financial planning.
 ''I personally used to do a nondeductible I.R.A. every year in January, and this year I didn't,'' said Bernard S. Kent, who is the partner in charge of personal financial services for PricewaterhouseCoopers in its Midwest region. The reason, he explained, is that before the tax cuts, the benefit of deferring taxes on the account's earnings and gains outweighed the disadvantage that all disbursements from tax-deferred retirement accounts are taxed at ordinary-income rates. Now, because those earnings and gains are taxed at only 15 percent, he prefers to take the tax hit up front.
 ''It makes sense to recognize your gains now at 15 percent,'' Mr. Kent said, considering the sunset provisions on the lower tax rates as well as the size of the federal budget deficit, which, he said, could make tax increases inevitable eventually. 
 The current climate is bad for I.R.A.'s and worse for annuities because of the fees involved, he said. But he still favors investing in a tax-deferred 401(k) plan or similar employer-sponsored plan, if the employer matches employee contributions. 
 Mr. Kent, based in Detroit, advises putting investments that could produce long-term capital gains or qualified dividends into regular accounts. Tax-deferred retirement accounts are good for investments like bonds or REIT's, and for active stock trading that generates short-term capital gains, all of which produce income taxed at ordinary rates.

EDUCATION SAVINGS -- Saving for children's education has been encouraged by the tax laws. Under the 2001 law, plans that offered tax deferral became more attractive than ever. It made earnings tax-free on Section 529 plans, which are administered by states for college savings. Earnings on Coverdell education savings accounts, when used for qualified education expenses, are also not taxable.
 The 2003 law made no changes in those plans, but given the revision of financial planning in general, should Americans also overhaul their educational savings plans? Not in Ms. Johnson's opinion. 
 The tax code allows anyone to give up to $11,000 a year to any other individual free of gift and estate tax consequences, but people are allowed to make five years' worth of gifts to a Section 529 plan at one time. In recent years, this has become a popular way for grandparents to get money out of estates that could be taxable by giving it to their grandchildren. 
 Ms. Johnson applauded the idea. ''It is an amazing opportunity to front-load your annual exclusion -- $110,000 for a couple,'' per child, she said. ''It is the greatest bonus Congress has given for recognizing the American dream.''

LOOKING AHEAD -- How can taxpayers plan intelligently, given the law's sunset provision and the sharp differences between the Bush administration, which wants to make the tax cuts permanent, and the Democratic challengers, who contend that the nation cannot afford such a move?
 James A. Seidel, a senior manager at RIA, said, ''The best advice is to go with what we have right now and to try to stay flexible.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''What the Law Allows''Tax law allows for a number of breaks, but the amounts can vary with inflation and legislative changes. Here are some of the breaks for last year and the current tax year.Adoption creditEligible expenses2003: $10,1602004: : $10,390Income at which modified adjusted gross income phase-out ends2003: 152,3902004: 155,840Education creditAmount at which modified adjusted gross income phase-out startsMarried filing jointly2003: $83,0002004: $84,000All other taxpayers2003: 41,0002004: 42,000Qualified transportation fringe benefitsMonthly transit passes/commuter vehicles2003: $1002004: $100Qualified monthly parking2003: 1902004: 195Long-term care insuranceDeductions for premiumsAge 40 or less2003: $2502004: $26041 to 502003: 4702004: 49051 to 602003: 9402004: 98061 to 702003: 2,5102004: 2,600More than 702003: 3,1302004: 3,250(Source by Sidney Kess, tax lawyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); LAWYERS (75%); MARRIAGE (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%) Taxation; Tax Deductions

PERSON: Jan M Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



349 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Lovers Now Propose: Marry Me, a Little

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: MARSEILLE, France 

 BODY:
Nathalie Ramirez and Djillali Antar have been together for eight years. But like many modern couples whose relationships are shaped by practicality and logistics as much as romance, they are not sure what they want in the future. Marriage, so far, has always seemed like a goal too much.
 So two years ago, they presented themselves to a court in Aix-en-Provence and signed a pacte civil de solidarite, or PACS, as they are popularly known, giving them many of the same legal rights as married people but not, Ms. Ramirez explained with some relief, committing them to be together forever.
 Today they are happily, if somewhat ambivalently, ''PACS'ed'' in an arrangement that Ms. Ramirez, 28, and Mr. Antar, 31, say does not feel like conventional marriage, but a light approximation of it. They do not wear wedding bands. They still refer to each other as boyfriend and girlfriend. When they visit her parents, Mr. Antar does not spend the night. He has not even told his parents, who are originally from Algeria, that he got PACS'ed. 
 ''They wouldn't understand,'' he said. ''For them, it is marriage or nothing.''
 Even as President Bush is proposing to spend $1.5 billion to promote marriage in the United States, European countries are moving in the opposite direction. They are granting new status to couples looking for some legal rights in the broad gray area between living together casually and ''till death do us part.''
 What European laws have in common, said Kathleen Kiernan, a professor of social policy and demography at the London School of Economics, is that they take a pragmatic approach to their populations' changing attitudes about the role -- and even the relevance -- of marriage in contemporary life.
 ''In some ways, there has been an acceptance of cohabiting relationships in Europe,'' Professor Kiernan said. ''There isn't a move in European countries to promote marriage -- although care has also been taken not to undermine the position of marriage in formulating legislation. Europe has moved toward the idea of committed partnership and committed parenthood, and civil status is a secondary issue.'' 
 Gay groups have led the way to registered partnership laws in many European countries; nearly all governments in Western Europe have or are proposing such laws for gays. But today France and some Scandinavian countries also have similar plans for heterosexuals, and at least one other country is considering them. 
 The result, for the time being at least, is a legal patchwork in which rights and benefits bestowed in one country are not always recognized elsewhere. 
 For French heterosexuals with religious or political objections to marriage, as well as those suffering from modern angst over what kind of commitment they are prepared to make, the government-issued pacts offer the perfect halfway house. 
 Speaking in their small apartment here, Ms. Ramirez laughed sheepishly, trying to explain the many things they considered when they decided to get PACS'ed instead of married. Their respective parents, who come from different countries, have not yet met each other, she said. There are the geographical complications of combining her career as a journalist with his job as a secondary school administrator -- not to mention her fear of a long-term commitment, and the issue of having children, which they both agree they would undertake only if they were first married. 
 The civil solidarity pact that they signed confers some stability and legal rights. It means, for instance, that Mr. Antar can remain in his civil service job in Marseille, living with Ms. Ramirez, secure that he will not be transferred to another area. It means that the couple share property rights and, after three years as official partners, will get the same tax breaks as married people.
 But it also allows either member to dissolve the relationship, with little legal complication, on three months' notice, a source of some comfort to this skittish couple.
 ''At first, when we PACS'ed, we thought we would be de-PACS'ed after three years, but we changed our minds,'' said Ms. Ramirez.
 The Scandinavian countries, where being unmarried is increasingly the norm, have long allowed such couples to register as domestic partners, mostly as a way to protect any children they have together.
 Unmarried couples in Norway who live together with children make up the fastest-growing household census category, having increased to nearly 100,000 people from nearly 61,000 20 years ago, according to the national statistics office. The Norwegian Parliament is considering a proposal to increase significantly the rights of people who are living together, known by a Norwegian word that translates as cohabitants. 
 Under the proposal, people who have been living together for five years or more, or who have children together, would have inheritance rights like married people. Surviving partners would also be allowed to keep the house the couple lived in and its contents, regardless of what their partner's will says. 
 Even in Italy, where marriage is so deeply rooted as a foundation of society that it is codified in the Constitution, a proposed law would for the first time grant some legal recognition to unmarried couples. 
 Among other things, the proposed Italian law would allow the surviving member of a couple in which one of the partners has died the right to remain in the house they shared for a period roughly equal to the length of the relationship.
 ''No one wants to go against marriage,'' Alessandra Mussolini, a member of the Italian Parliament and one of the bill's sponsors, said in an interview with The New York Times last November. ''I'm married, and I think that is an institution that needs to be respected. But there should not be discrimination against children from unmarried parents, and there still is.''
 For its part, however, Italy seems loath to grant comparable rights to gay couples; indeed, one of the biggest objections to the bill is that it might somehow open the door to legally recognized gay couples.
 At the same time, several other European countries have taken the opposite approach, recognizing gay relationships but refusing to grant special rights to unmarried heterosexuals, on the grounds that they have marriage as an option.
 A government proposal still being considered in Britain, for instance, would allow gay couples to register in civil partnerships that would give them inheritance and pension benefits, and next-of-kin rights in hospitals. But when the government announced its plan last summer, gay groups protested, saying that it discriminated against heterosexuals.
 In Germany, too, the law on unmarried couples favors gays. Under the country's registered partnership program, gay couples are, among other things, allowed to choose one surname as a shared ''partnership name;'' they also have increased financial rights in issues like inheritance, housing and maintenance.
 About 6,000 couples have registered under the plan so far, said Volker Beck, a member of the German Parliament from the Green Party and a supporter of the law.
 The civil solidarity pacts in France, in fact, began as a way for gays to formalize their partnerships, but were broadened, when religious and conservative groups objected, to include heterosexuals. By the end of 2002, according to the French Justice Department, about 133,890 people had signed such pacts.
 ''The government is opening up to different lifestyles -- although I'm not persuaded that being gay is that different from being straight,'' said Gilles Segrestain, the president of Gaipar, an organization for gays from different nationalities in Paris. 
 ''I think one of the reasons why gay relationships often appeared as being short-lived is because there was no institution, no framework,'' he said in an interview. ''And now when two gay men or lesbians say, 'we're PACS'ed,' it's like a straight couple saying, 'we're married.' ''
 Well, not always. For many, it is more like marriage training. 
 ''It's an intermediate way between no commitment and a wedding,'' said Caroline Vinot, 34, a Frenchwoman who lives in Prague and recently had a baby with her Czech boyfriend. The two are now considering signing a PACS together.
 ''I think there will probably be one day when it will be convenient for both of us to have this situation be legalized and all the financial and property aspects to be organized between us,'' she said.
 There is still the allure of a traditional wedding, but Ms. Vinot is not sure how ready she is. ''I probably would be very excited, with the big cake and the big party and the white dress,'' she said. ''But I'm too scared to get married.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nathalie Ramirez and her boyfriend, Djillali Antar, wanted to make their relationship official. Sort of. But they were not ready for marriage. So they opted for a popular French alternative, a civil solidarity pact. (Photo by Eric Franceschi/Vu, for The New York Times)Chart: ''Many Ways to Tie the Knot''Options and rights vary for European couples who wish to unite legally outside of marriage.COUNTRY: FranceTYPE OF UNION: Civil Solidarity PactCOUPLES ELIGIBLE: Same sex, opposite sexRIGHTS EXTENDEDNEXT OF KIN: YESINHERITANCE, PROPERTY: YESSOCIAL SECURITY: YESTAX BENEFITS: YESADOPTION: NOCOUNTRY: PortugalTYPE OF UNION: Partnership RightsCOUPLES ELIGIBLE: Same sex, opposite sexRIGHTS EXTENDEDNEXT OF KIN: YESINHERITANCE, PROPERTY: YESSOCIAL SECURITY: YESTAX BENEFITS: YESADOPTION: NOCOUNTRY: DenmarkTYPE OF UNION: Registered PartnershipCOUPLES ELIGIBLE: Same sexRIGHTS EXTENDEDNEXT OF KIN: YESINHERITANCE, PROPERTY: YESSOCIAL SECURITY: YESTAX BENEFITS: YESADOPTION: YESCOUNTRY: GermanyTYPE OF UNION: Registered PartnershipCOUPLES ELIGIBLE: Same sexRIGHTS EXTENDEDNEXT OF KIN: YESINHERITANCE, PROPERTY: YESSOCIAL SECURITY: NOTAX BENEFITS: NOADOPTION: NOCOUNTRY: NetherlandsTYPE OF UNION: Registered PartnershipCOUPLES ELIGIBLE: Same sex, opposite sexRIGHTS EXTENDEDNEXT OF KIN: YESINHERITANCE, PROPERTY: YESSOCIAL SECURITY: YESTAX BENEFITS: YESADOPTION: YESCOUNTRY: NetherlandsTYPE OF UNION: Same-sex marriageCOUPLES ELIGIBLE: Same sexRIGHTS EXTENDEDNEXT OF KIN: YESINHERITANCE, PROPERTY: YESSOCIAL SECURITY: YESTAX BENEFITS: YESADOPTION: YES(Source by Department of Trade and Industry, United Kingdom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); COHABITATION (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Law and Legislation; Marriages

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Sarah Lyall

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (93%) EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (65%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



350 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; JERSEY

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Finally, the Nets Have a Purpose. A Hedge Against Inflation.

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
IF you've ever met with a financial planner, you know that this much is true: No matter what you have saved for retirement, no matter how high your income is or how much of it you think you will put aside between now and gold-watch day, it won't be enough. You have no chance of maintaining your current lifestyle. No chance at all. 
 Well, maybe one chance, and I'm going to give it to you in this column. Also, I'll be offering you an opportunity to win cool prizes. So pay attention. 
 I long ago gave up trying to save for retirement and switched to a lottery-ticket-based plan, but recently after yet another unsuccessful week on the Pick 6 front I decided there must be another way. Then I found it: in the newspaper, where I read that the New Jersey Nets are apparently destined for extinction. A new owner wants to move them to Brooklyn.
 It occurred to me that there is a corollary to the saying that absence makes the heart grow fonder, namely: absence makes the memorabilia grow more valuable. Once there are no more Nets, shouldn't stuff associated with the team be worth a lot more? After all, there is no more Honus Wagner, and in 1996 his baseball card sold for $640,000. 
 So I cashed in the kid's college fund and headed for eBay.com, the auction site, to buy up all the New Jersey Netabilia I could; by the time I retire, I figured, it will be worth a fortune. And there was plenty to choose from.
 There were personalized New Jersey Nets address labels (not, apparently, containing players' addresses, but your own, next to a spiffy Nets logo). There were Nets hats, Nets throwback hats, Nets throwback pinwheel hats. For $2.99 I could have joined the bidding on a beer-bottle-shaped Nets tap handle. (''Show off your Nets pride as you pour beers,'' the seller urged.) 
 Someone was offering a ''University of Nets'' diploma (''Your Name Here'') for $8.99. A baffling array of Nets timepieces were being auctioned: Nets watches for a starting bid of 1 cent; a half-dozen different Nets wall clocks, including one emblazoned with an unprintable slogan suggesting that the team isn't very good. 
 After I had bid on some of this stuff, it occurred to me I should ask an expert if my retirement-plan theory was valid. So I called John Taube, whose sports memorabilia business (www.gameusedbats.com) in Margate specializes in baseball bats that have been used in games. Much to my surprise, he actually said I was right. Almost. 
 The trinkets catching my eye on eBay are not where the real value is going to be, he said; someone can always make another Nets cellphone faceplate. ''That stuff you stay away from, the watches and the towels,'' Mr. Taube said. If you want to finance a retirement, go for things that have been worn or used in a game and authenticated as such.
 ''Any time there are no more jerseys left, the jerseys that do exist are going to go up,'' Mr. Taube said. ''If you see a game-worn jersey, that's the thing to get. Especially in that last year.''
 How much difference does contact with an athlete's skin make? A game-worn autographed jersey brings three or four times what a plain ordinary autographed jersey does, Mr. Taube said. And the money can be substantial. Mr. Taube, a nationally known expert in authenticating game-used bats, shattered my dream of giving my daughter a used Derek Jeter bat as a graduation present: they're $3,000 or so, he said.
 So go get yourself some game-used Nets stuff. Meanwhile, I'd like jettison a bit of the bric-a-brac I bought before I talked to Mr. Taube, and I'd like you to have it. All you have to do is, in 50 words or so, address this essay topic: ''Why I'm Glad the Nets Are, Apparently, Leaving.'' 
 Send your entry to negenz@nytimes.com; I apologize to those without computers, but opening snail mail has become dangerous again. In the unlikely event that any entries are actually received, they will be judged by Patrick Lamb, a comedian from Bloomfield, and Caren Lissner, a writer from Hoboken. The contest is open to you, to my family members and co-workers, even to the judges. Entries have to be printable in this newspaper. 
 The runner-up will receive one of those 1-cent Nets watches. The winner will get a New Jersey Nets Barbie, something that Mr. Taube said might in fact be valuable someday, not because of the Nets, but because it's a Barbie. And if anyone out there has a game-used Nets Barbie, well, I'm interested.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); AUCTIONS (87%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (86%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BASEBALL (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%) Basketball; Memorabilia

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%) New Jersey Nets 

PERSON: Neil Genzlinger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



351 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2434 words

HEADLINE: Weathering A Downturn, But With Scars

BYLINE: By SUSAN WARNER

 BODY:
PETER MARKAVAGE -- a 57-year-old product manager at Lucent Technologies -- was only five years from retirement when he was thrust into the harsh job market of 2001.
 ''I was going to job interviews, and wherever I went there were more people waiting in line than there were jobs,'' said Mr. Markavage. ''I was at the back of the line one day and I said, 'I have to do something else.'''
 So Mr. Markavage became ManualMan. For years, as a hobby, he had refurbished vintage radio equipment and collected out-of-date manuals at flea markets. Now he sells copies of some 12,000 manuals in his inventory to other hobbyists over the Internet at ManualMan.com. 
 Despite a new brisk business and his Lucent pension, Mr. Markavage is making only about half his former salary. But he likes what he is doing, there is no vast bureaucracy to contend with, and his morning commute is just one flight down the stairs from the kitchen to his office in his split-level in Sayreville.
 Like Mr. Markavage, New Jersey has weathered the economic downturn -- with some scars -- and is slowly rebounding. According preliminary federal figures, the state added 37,100 jobs last year, the sixth best job-growth performance in the nation and the only state in the Northeast to make the top 10.
 Looking ahead, the value of goods and services produced in New Jersey is expected to rise 5 percent in 2004, to $413.7 billion, according to the latest figures compiled by the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisors, and personal income is expected to grow 4.5 percent, to $364.4 billion. 
 ''Going into 2004, I'm looking for a very good year -- a year that's going to be a significant improvement on 2003 and probably the best year since 2000,'' said Joseph Seneca, a professor of economics at Rutgers and chairman of the governor's Council of Economic Advisors.
 Nonetheless, the economy has been forever altered in ways that has put New Jersey's workers into a constant state of insecurity. Corporate downsizing is now an entrenched business strategy; guaranteed pension plans and health benefits for retirees are disappearing, and competition from low-wage workers overseas is a looming threat to highly educated professional workers as well as blue-collar employees.
 ''There is a great deal of anxiety out there,'' said Carl Van Horn, director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University. ''It's a combination of reality and perception. Not everybody is going to be laid off, but everybody is working scared because they know somebody down the road who was.'' 
 What is more, Mr. Van Horn said that the anxiety -- present in high levels even in surveys he conducted in the late 90's at the peak of the last economic boom -- seems here to stay.
 ''The number of scared and anxious workers has gone up, but they were high to begin with before this recession,'' he said. ''This is the new normal.''
 In addition, Mr. Seneca cautioned, the psyches of New Jersey workers could be rattled at any time by global events far beyond their control, like a sharp rise in oil prices, a bad turn in Iraq or another large-scale terrorist attack on the United States.
 Moreover, an unprecedented boom in mortgage refinancing that put billions of dollars into the pockets of consumers is drying up, he said, and double-digit appreciation of home values is likely to level off. 
 Another potential problem could also be lurking just beyond the November election. Mr. Seneca warned that some of President Bush's economic policies, including tax cuts, may lead to an economic blowback, with the budget deficit in the current year projected at $477 billion and the nation's trade deficit expected to be about $450 billion.
 ''Those two deficits are enormous and unsustainable, and the effects will be felt in the form of higher interest rates, increased taxes and more realistic living within our means.'' Mr. Seneca said. ''Maybe not in the near future, but these are fundamental issues that have to be faced.''
 For the moment, job growth in the state is presenting a surprisingly bright spot. 
 ''The trend in New Jersey is pretty promising and it's been counter to what's been happening in the rest of the Northeast,'' said Brian Lego, an analyst at Economy.com, of West Chester, Pa., an economic consulting company that specializes in regional economics.
 The robustness of New Jersey's job recovery is a result of a diverse employment base that relies less on manufacturing than the rest of the nation, said Mr. Seneca. For instance, in New Jersey 8.8 percent of employment is in manufacturing, compared with 11 percent nationally. Nationwide, he pointed out, the manufacturing sector lost jobs for 41 consecutive months through December 2003. 
 As the nation's wealthiest state in terms of household income -- median household income was $55,146, compared with Connecticut, in second place with $53,935 -- New Jersey was able to maintain high levels of consumer spending, protecting local retailers and service companies from losing too many jobs during the economic downturn. 
 In an interesting touch of irony that will play out in this year of presidential politics, Mr. Seneca noted that the Bush tax cuts, sharply criticized by the Democratic candidates, had a more salutary effect on New Jersey -- which in the last half-dozen years has placed itself firmly in the Democratic column -- than other states because they benefit wealthier taxpayers.
 Still, there are pockets of economic problems. For instance, New Jersey's job growth in 2003 fell below its typical annual average of 50,000 new jobs a year. Mr. Lego said New Jersey's shrunken telecom industry may have hit bottom, but is still struggling with more employees and equipment than the market can support.
 Health care is also troubling, he said, noting a rash of layoffs at institutions like the Hospital Center of Orange, where 800 jobs are in peril, and General Hospital Center in Passaic, which faces the loss of about 1,000 jobs, a circumstance driven in part by shortfalls in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursements because of tightening state and federal budgets. 
 For now the all-important pharmaceutical industry is holding its own, Mr. Lego said, although it remains vulnerable to continued consolidation and a decline in the number of new drugs winning approval to go on the market. For instance, Merck & Company, with headquarters in Whitehouse Station, said last year that it planned to lay off 4,400 workers after two key drugs failed in the late stages of clinical testing.
 The key to future growth, at least for now, is expected to be in the financial services industry. After the attack on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001, many companies temporarily relocated to New Jersey before filtering back to New York City. But with a bear market under way at the same time, the investment industry was contracting overall.
 Now, as the financial services industry appears ready for another expansion, Mr. Lego said, New Jersey is likely to be a prime spot for new job growth. Many trained employees already live in the state, he said, and while the cost of doing business in New Jersey is not low, it is still cheaper than in Manhattan.
 ''New Jersey has managed to attract some of those jobs from New York, and I think it's going to continue going forward,'' he said. 
 Indeed, the state treasurer, John McCormack, said that economic development officials were seeing an increasing number of inquiries from firms interested in moving to New Jersey, particularly since recent guidelines put out by the Securities and Exchange Commission on providing backup facilities for crucial financial activities after the terrorist attacks of 9/11 make the state attractive to those firms.
 New Jersey's location -- within 50 miles of 25 million people -- has helped it continue to grow as a warehouse and distribution center, and supports travel and tourism spending at the shore, said Mr. Van Horn at Rutgers.
 ''We have these building blocks that are very stable and helps explain the positive story about our job growth,'' he said.
 New Jersey is also positioned to take advantage of the global economy, said Mr. Lego. For instance, he said that the Newark area, with its shipping ports and international airport, has generated new jobs even as American exports rose with a weaker dollar. Imports coming into the country, fed by continued strong consumer demand, also generate business at the ports.
 Yet the global economy is taking its toll in other ways as well. State Senator Shirley Turner, a Democrat whose district includes Trenton, became enraged last year when she learned that a call center for the state's welfare and food stamp recipients, operated by a private contractor, was going to move from Wisconsin to India. 
 Ms. Turner quickly introduced legislation that would have barred state contractors from moving jobs overseas. The legislation failed to win final passage, but the contractor agreed to move the call center to Camden.
 ''A recovery cannot last very long if we don't create jobs,'' Senator Turner said. ''A lot of companies are continuing to increase their exportation of jobs overseas, and I think it's very foolish of government to follow their bad example.''
 Senator Turner -- who plans to reintroduce her legislation in this session -- said the state's overall employment figures did not reflect pockets of severe unemployment in New Jersey, including Trenton. ''If you look at it statewide it doesn't look that high,'' she said. ''But if you go into our urban areas, it's twice as much as in suburban areas. That's where we need to create jobs.''
 In the early part of the slowdown, as the tech bubble burst, the rate of unemployment was higher among whites than minorities, said William Rodgers, chief economist at the Heldrich Center, but over time, minorities began to close the gap.
 ''As consumer confidence started to slow, the recession took on the same flavor of past recessions in which African-American and minority unemployment grew faster,'' he said.
 And Hispanic workers -- who now make up 12.4 percent of the state's work force, with 543,000 people, showed the highest increases in minority unemployment rates, he said. The unemployment rate for Hispanic men in New Jersey grew to 7 percent in 2002 from 4.2 percent in 2000; among Hispanic women, unemployment rose to 9 percent from 5.1 percent.
 The housing market has also contributed to economic growth in New Jersey, where low interest rates have fueled the run-up in home values -- even as the stock market and jobs dried up.
 And reassuring to homeowners, Mr. Seneca said a recent Rutgers study indicated that despite a 51.7 percent increase in housing prices in the state since 1998, it was not a bubble waiting to burst. In fact, he said, income and the demand for housing remain strong, while a new supply is constrained by restrictions imposed on development. 
 Nowhere has the increase in home values been as strong as in Monmouth and Ocean Counties, where the median price of a single-family home is up 68.74 percent, to $291,640, in just three years. According to a recent study by the Brookings Institution, a research organization in Washington, the increase put the Monmouth/Ocean County region in a tie for the fourth-largest increase in the nation.
 Mindy North, owner of Paramount Properties in Marlboro and president of the Monmouth County Association of Realtors, said that 20 years ago the county was a haven for teachers working in Staten Island and Brooklyn, who could commute easily and get more home for their dollar. But gradually, Ms. North said, Wall Street professionals and a smattering of celebrities who want lots of space and yet remain close to Manhattan have begun moving in.
 ''For years Monmouth County was undervalued in comparison to what was going on north of us,'' she said.
 Mr. Lego said that Monmouth -- with its run-up in prices -- was not likely to see prices fall since household incomes in the area could support them. But he did warn that housing prices could flatten in the areas around Newark as well as in Bergen, Passaic and Middlesex Counties.
 The fact is, while the number of jobs is again on the rise, many workers are settling for less in pay.
 Urs Muller -- who in 2002 lost his job as a research manager with AT&T after working there for six years -- is starting up a software company, Net-Scale Technologies in Morganville, making about half his old salary, which he would describe only as in the six-figure range.
 Mr. Muller said that about 150 people in his division were let go, and he estimated that about half left the state. Of the total, he said, about half have taken research jobs at universities or government laboratories -- earning less money -- while about a quarter of them moved to mid- to large-size companies, where they may even be earning more than they were at AT&T. Another quarter, he said, are at start-up companies, and most of them have already switched companies two or three times.
 For his part, Mr. Muller, who is 40 and has no young children at home, said he felt he could take the risk of starting his own company, which made nothing for the first nine months.
 Vinh Vu was 50 and had four children at home when he took an early retirement package at Lucent. Mr. Vu has worked part time as a financial planner and a personal trainer since he left his six-figure job as a district manager at Lucent. He is now focusing more on a company in which he is a partner, Ginko Audio, which makes custom acrylic dust covers, and nonvibrating platforms and stands for high-end audio equipment.
 Mr. Vu's wife, Mai-Uyen Nguyen, is a manager for AT&T -- earning more than he did -- so between her salary and his pension and proceeds from his other jobs, the family has been able to maintain its standard of living.
 ''This allows me to develop the business,'' he said. ''It's not to the point where it has replaced my old Lucent income, but it's grown quite a bit and I'm happy with the progress.''
 Mr. Van Horn said an increasing number of unemployed and underemployed workers were turning to self-employment for two reasons. First, large companies were hiring an increasing number of outside consultants and contractors. And second, the people becoming self-employed after leaving high-level corporate jobs had the skills to run their own businesses.
 Finally, Mr. Van Horn said, self-employment may be a new way station in what he called the ''go-and-be-dislocated economy.''
 ''People have figured out its not smart to say you're unemployed when you're really looking for a full-time job,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Markavage, let go from his job at Lucent, turned a hobby into a livelihood.
Mindy North, who owns a real estate business, says Monmouth County is no longer just a refuge for teachers from Staten Island and Brooklyn. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Clockwise from left, Vinh Vu, right -- who left Lucent -- and his partner, Norm Ginsbury, makes acrylic dust covers, platforms and stands for audio equipment shown at left
Urs Muller, above, lost his job at AT&T and started a software company
Net-Scale Technologies, that makes pocket-size hard drives, below.
For years, as a hobby, Peter Markavage -- a product manager who was let go from his job at Lucent Technologies -- had refurbished vintage radio equipment and collected out-of-date manuals at flea markets. Now he sells copies of some 12,000 manuals in his inventory to other hobbyists over the Internet at ManualMan.com. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 ''For years Monmouth County was undervalued in comparison to what was going on north of us,'' said Mindy North, who owns Paramount Properties in Marlboro. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (72%); TRENDS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; United States Economy

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%)

PERSON: Susan Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



352 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; ON POLITICS

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Race Creep Into Arena Battle

BYLINE: By Ronald Smothers. 
Ronald Smothers reports from Newark for The New York Times.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
It is almost axiomatic in New Jersey politics that Democratic candidates for statewide office need to count on substantial margins in Essex County, a party stronghold in large part because of the substantial black vote.
 The county gave Governor McGreevey sizable margins in his victory two years ago. Perhaps more important, its party leaders played a crucial role in helping Mr. McGreevey fend off at least one would-be challenger and a potentially fractious primary campaign. 
 So one would think that the county's voters should be happy with the McGreevey administration, and vice versa. But these days in Essex -- the state's second-most populous county -- there are those who are fairly pining for the return of such names as Kean and Whitman and DiFrancesco.
 At the heart of this discontent is Mr. McGreevey's sentiment, finally expressed last week, though still not in so many words, that the Meadowlands arena -- surrounded by a sea of swamp grass and New Jersey suburbs -- is where he would like to see hockey played, not Newark. 
 Then there is Mayor Sharpe James of Newark, who sees his beloved sports arena as part of a larger six-year-old economic development scheme, energizing a faltering revitalization begun five years ago with the opening of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center.
 Flush with money from a renegotiated lease for the Newark Liberty International Airport and armed with a letter of intent from the Devils saying that that the team can't wait to come to the city, all Newark needs is the governor's willingness to demolish Continental Arena, 12 miles to the north, so that it will not siphon off nonsporting events needed to make a one-team arena profitable.
 So what caused the governor's change of heart after nearly four years of vocal support for the Newark arena is not clear. What is clear is that in choosing Bergen County over Newark, Mr. McGreevey has exposed some of the crucial fault lines in the Democratic Party.
 And for a governor whose popularity -- even within his base -- is flagging in the opinion polls, the result may prove seismic.
 Rick Thigpen, a former Democratic official and now a lobbyist and consultant, lamented the governor's flirtation with what he called ''the third rail of Democratic politics.''
 That the party has different constituencies -- urban and suburban, black and white, poor and middle class -- is a given, he said.
 ''There are two ways to reconcile the very different viewpoints of these constituencies,'' Mr. Thigpen said. ''One is diplomacy. The other is power politics.''
 Joseph DiVincenzo, the Democratic executive of Essex County, and a supporter of the Newark arena, noted that Governor McGreevey was approaching an election year where ''he has some major concerns about winning in Bergen County,'' the state's most populous county and the third-wealthiesty in the nation -- and a place where the party spent lavishly to win county offices and increase its presence in Trenton. 
 Walter Fields, a political consultant who -- though he is a Democrat -- has also worked for Republican candidates, said that Mayor James and Newark did not deserve Governor McGreevey's apparent tilt away from the urban base that helped elect him. After the support that Mayor James delivered, he said, it was matter of ''pride'' to try to punish the governor politically now.
 Even Newark and Essex County residents who may not be wild about the notion of a hockey arena team can identify with the disrespect that the governor may have shown to one of his staunchest supporters. While this will not translate into fevered support for a Republican, Mr. Fields suggested, it could mean tepid support, at best, for the Democrat.
 ''Oh, McGreevey will get some points from the suburban voters for looking as if he is independent enough to stand up to Mayor James,'' he said. ''But pretty soon the chickens will come home to roost because there is nothing but bad news and low poll ratings surrounding this governor.''
 One of those roosting chickens might be the eventual departure of the New Jersey Devils, in which case the governor may well have to take heat for losing two professional sports teams on his watch.
 Late last week Mayor James donned a cheerleader's hat and held a pep rally for the Devils to highlight his commitment to the home team and the arena and to turn up the volume in the war that is brewing with the governor.
 All of this made one North Jersey Democratic power, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, nostalgic for the old days. He recalled that there were two Republican and two Democratic governors who over nearly two decades carried the banner for building the Performing Arts Center despite strong opposition from predominantly white suburban interests. From one administration to the next, he said, there was resolve and an understanding of the importance of showing faith in the regenerative powers of the state's largest city.
 ''They all worked for it and no single person tried to get credit for it,'' he said.
 In 2001, as Governor Whitman was departing for Washington, she gave her blessing to providing state money for a sports arena in Newark. Her successor, acting Gov. Donald DiFrancesco, eagerly embraced the project and even as a lame duck offered to use his clout with a Republican-controlled Legislature to push it through. But Mr. McGreevey waved him off, saying that he wanted to be the one to see it through.
 ''The only word for that,'' the Democrat said, ''was hubris.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Smothers 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); SUBURBS (72%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); AIRPORTS (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%) Hockey, Ice; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (82%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Essex County (NJ); Newark (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



353 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15; SOAPBOX

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Shining a Light on Malpractice

BYLINE: By PAUL A. SARLO. 
Senator Paul A. Sarlo is a Democrat from the 36th District, which includes parts of Bergen, Essex and Passaic Counties, and is an assistant Senate majority leader.

 BODY:
A New Jersey Superior Court's recent decision to unseal malpractice settlements against doctors is a significant step in strengthening consumer protection in the practice of medicine. It is a step that is long overdue.
 This decision will allow patients to protect themselves from bad doctors. For too long, doctors with multiple or catastrophic malpractice records have been able to continue practicing without fear of public scrutiny or outcry. Now patients will be able to make informed and educated decisions when choosing a doctor. 
 Make no mistake, the vast majority of doctors are competent, skilled, and serve the public well. Unfortunately, as in so many other areas of life, one rotten apple can spoil the bunch. The entire medical profession should not be blamed for the incompetence, negligence or criminal acts of a small minority of doctors. However, the profession should be held accountable for its historical insistence on protecting rogues and repeat offenders.
 Particularly questionable is the New Jersey Medical Society's blind insistence on imposing caps on awards for medical malpractice. This position ignores the profession's responsibility to protect patients. Doctors must be willing to police their colleagues and expel incompetent doctors from the practice. These steps will improve patient care, increase public confidence and reduce the incidents of medical malpractice.
 The medical society's position on caps stems from its desire to reduce the cost of malpractice insurance for its members. This position is misguided. Allowing bad doctors to hide behind the curtain of confidentiality helps no one, least of all the patients. Furthermore, this position perpetuates the present medical malpractice insurance rate regime in which insurance companies charge good doctors higher premiums to offset the risk of insuring bad ones.
 The medical society's goal should be to reduce the number of malpractice incidents. Reducing the amount of malpractice incidents, not the amount of malpractice awards, will reduce the cost of malpractice insurance.
 Opening malpractice settlement records is especially appealing because it provides a free-market method of reducing the costs of medical malpractice insurance, whereas caps are a direct interference on both our economic and judicial systems. When a restaurant receives bad reviews, the public stops going and the restaurant closes. With luck, now, if a doctor's record of negligence and incompetence is exposed, patients make a change and doctors will finally bear responsibility for their actions. Reducing the number of bad doctors will reduce the amount of malpractice incidents, cutting the cost of malpractice insurance for the good doctors who for too long have paid to cover the mistakes of a small number of inept peers.
 The court's ruling will also highlight the records of our state's outstanding physicians, and patients will enthusiastically seek treatment from doctors with good records. The increased number of patients and lower cost of malpractice insurance will provide doctors with a financial incentive for maintaining a clean record and policing their profession. 
 The ruling protects doctors as well. Doctors will be informed when their records are made public and will have the right to review and challenge specific items. This provision should alleviate doctors' understandable concern that their reputations not be tarnished by inaccurate or mistaken records.
 Public confidence in both the competence of the medical profession and the quality of medical care is vital to sustaining health care in our society. Allowing patients to research their doctors' malpractice records will increase the public's confidence in the medical profession. The court's decision is sunshine for both consumers and doctors, shining light on the darkest and most hidden aspect of health care in our state. With luck, the New Jersey Medical Society will agree.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%) Medicine and Health; Malpractice ; Doctors ; Suits and Litigation

PERSON: Paul (Sen) Sarlo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



354 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE ECONOMY

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: An Iraqi Factory Reflects U.S. Recovery Effort

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
The five-story headquarters of one of the biggest cigarette factories in the Middle East rises on the northeastern edge of this city's largest slum, towering above dirt fields filled with donkey carts and children playing soccer and puddles reeking of urine.
 American marines wrested it from snipers last April. Then the Second Armored Calvary Regiment moved in, and Army soldiers now stare from watchtowers at the concrete houses of the sprawling neighborhood known as Sadr City. 
 The factory is on the front line of the American military's battle to win the trust of possibly the most hostile -- and certainly the poorest -- area of Baghdad. 
 Many of this neighborhood's 2.2 million inhabitants follow the decrees of a fiery anti-American Shiite cleric named Moktada al-Sadr. His militia, known as the Mahdi Army, has ambushed and killed American troops.
 The way the American military sees it, part of dousing the flames has involved reopening the cigarette factory and trying to get it running smoothly again. That means giving 850 Iraqi workers access to half the base, which the 1,000 soldiers here call Camp Marlboro.
 It seemed a simple task at first. The factory began production again last October, churning out 300 to 400 cases of Sumer brand cigarettes a day, or up to 2,500 cigarettes per minute. But with problems ranging from labor strife to faulty machinery, the project mirrors the complexities of governing Iraq.
 ''One of our weapons is our culture,'' Maj. George Sarabia, a spokesman for the Second Armored Calvary Regiment, said as he walked across the factory floor one morning. ''Part of the reason why we won the cold war is because of the military. But one of the reasons is because of the Beatles and bluejeans.''
 Never mind that the Beatles were British. The point, Major Sarabia said, is that teaching the laborers Western work habits and putting money in their pockets will help bring stability.
 ''These are things that aren't in the book,'' Major Sarabia said as clumps of processed tobacco rolled along conveyor belts. ''You don't learn this in the Army. We're trying to teach economics, the work ethic, the American way of doing things.''
 Those words no doubt echo sentiments expressed by other officers during other imperial ages, in other dust-choked parts of the world. As with many colonial projects, though, the task these warriors-turned-administrators describe is easier said than done. The factory has sat idle in recent weeks while the workers have gone on strike in a wage dispute. Furthermore, members of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party still hold jobs here, annoying some workers, and the factory is operating well below capacity because spare parts were looted.
 Mr. Sadr's supporters remain skeptical of the American presence.
 ''Some people consider the people who work in the factory to be spies for the Americans,'' Sheik Amir al-Husseini, a representative for Mr. Sadr, said as he sat in an office crowded with local men beseeching him for financial help. ''The jobs in the factory don't solve the problem of unemployment. The Americans haven't provided new jobs.''
 The number of jobs at the factory has actually increased by 50 from before the invasion, said Ali Hussein Salman, the factory manager.
 Two British companies built the factory decades ago, then handed it to Saddam Hussein in 1988, who ran it as a government enterprise. Last April, after dealing with snipers on its rooftops, the marines decided to occupy the building because of the vantage point it held over Sadr City.
 A month later, the Ministry of Industry suggested letting the government restart cigarette production at the factory. The Coalition Provisional Authority had listed the factory as one of 50 businesses crucial to generating revenue for Iraq, said Command Sgt. Maj. Charles Waters, a burly career soldier from Kentucky who maintains security at the factory. He moved American soldiers out of factory buildings, had a wall built between the factory and the rest of the compound, and set up a separate entrance for Iraqi workers.
 When the factory reopened in October, most workers came back. Sergeant Major Waters told the managers to stop paying those who did not show up. Many of the absentees returned.
 The factory hummed with life. Decrepit machines pumped out steam and sprayed perfume onto processed tobacco. Bales of dried raw tobacco sat in a corner of the building, alongside boxes of ''virgin blend'' tobacco from India and Vietnam. 
 Mr. Salman, who had worked as an engineer here for 12 years, was assigned to oversee the plant. Unlike the former Baath Party managers, he did not appear to be feared or disliked by the workers. The employees had complaints, though.
 ''If someone is sick, how can he be treated?'' one worker asked Mr. Salman as he walked across the floor one morning.
 Then the workers decided to strike because they had not been paid since late December, and because of what they called wage disparities among government workers. 
 Many government employees around the country have filed similar grievances in the last month.
 The strike brought the factory to a standstill. But it also reflected a degree of freedom that did not exist before. Mr. Hussein disbanded unions in 1987 and quashed any attempts at strikes.
 Sergeant Major Waters said that negotiations were progressing and that workers should be back soon.
 He helped organize a new union here, and on the day of the union elections, he rounded up four Baathists at the factory and held them for several hours of ''interrogation'' so they would not intimidate workers during the balloting.
 The fact that some Baath Party members remain on the payroll bothers him. ''The concern is when we decide to pull out, they'll come back into power and run the factory the way they used to do -- with corruption,'' he said.
 Mr. Salman, the manager, said five top Baathists were immediately fired after the Coalition Provisional Authority enacted a law last May allowing such purges. Twelve remain, he said, because the law does not allow for automatic dismissal of lower-level Baathists. 
 The most urgent need, though, is for spare parts. Looters stripped the factory during the fall of Baghdad last April. In optimal conditions, the factory can produce up to 2,000 cases of cigarettes per day, five to six times its output now.
 Vendors all over Iraq buy the cases for $40 each, which means the factory can pull in an additional $64,000 a day for the government if it ever gets to full capacity.
 ''Our mission over here is to establish a foundation the Iraqi people can build upon,'' Sergeant Major Waters said. ''I believe in my heart of hearts that this factory is part of it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Baghdad cigarette factory was reopened by the American forces. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); COLD WAR (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); TRENDS (73%); STRIKES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ETHICS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SOCCER (57%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Labor; Strikes; Looting; Smoking and Tobacco; Terrorism; Wages and Salaries; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (56%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



355 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; Your Taxes

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: That Out-of-State Shopping Trip May Buy a Higher Tax Bill

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
LIKE many other New Yorkers, Monica Schaffer, an executive at a marketing company, would sometimes venture across the Hudson River to shop for bargains. In suburban malls and outlet stores in New Jersey, she found deals on a Dolce & Gabbana coat, Anne Klein suits and Manolo Blahnik shoes. ''For all the rent I pay, it makes a lot of sense to save a little money where I can,'' said Ms. Schaffer, 32, who lives in Manhattan.
 Did she voluntarily report these purchases to the New York State Department of Tax and Finance? ''Was I supposed to?'' she asked.
 New York, in fact, is one of many states requiring residents to pay a ''compensating use tax'' on out-of-state purchases that would have been subject to sales tax at home, whether the purchases are made in person, by mail order or over the Internet. (A $300 pair of Manolo Blahnik pumps from New Jersey, which has no sales tax on clothing and footwear, would have been taxed at about $26 in Manhattan.) 
 ''The government should do a better job of letting us know'' about the use tax, Ms. Schaffer said.
 New York is doing so. It has added a separate line about the tax to its 2003 income tax return (along with five pages of instructions). California and Oklahoma added similar line items to their 2003 returns, joining more than a dozen other states, according to John Logan, a state tax analyst at CCH, a tax research firm in Riverwoods, Ill. 
 These new rules, cumbersome as they may seem to taxpayers, are part of a growing effort by states to devise ways to replenish their dwindling coffers without significantly reducing services. 
 Even as the federal government has been cutting taxes, many states have been increasing some of theirs, for businesses and individuals, or adding assortments of fees and surcharges. Some are going after scofflaws, too. A growing number are distancing, or ''decoupling,'' their tax rules from the federal tax system, which means that many taxpayers who receive new federal tax breaks on inherited estates or capital gains, among other things, will not get similar breaks on their state taxes.
 ''Some of these little nuances have larger implications than they would appear,'' Mr. Logan said.
 Although the economy has been improving in recent months, many states remain mired in fiscal problems. They enlarged their budgets in the booming 1990's to meet rising social needs, and often lowered taxes, only to have revenue plunge early in the new decade as the stock market tumbled, the economy weakened and jobs were cut. Even states' ''rainy-day'' funds have evaporated.
 ''They thought they were kids in a candy store, but spending grew faster than was sustainable under the current trends,'' said Stephen Slivinski, a senior economist for the Tax Foundation, a tax research group in Washington. 
 Unlike the federal government, state governments cannot print their own money when they run out, and most are also bound by their constitutions to balance their budgets. The Center on Budget Policy Priorities, a research group in Washington, says that in fiscal 2004, which for most states began last July, the states collectively closed almost $80 billion in budget gaps, as spending declined by 0.2 percent from fiscal 2003. Over the last three years, cumulative budget deficits totaled $200 billion, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 At least 21 states expect shortfalls for fiscal 2005, totaling around $40 billion, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. California alone is projected to have a budget deficit of $17.6 billion, or about a quarter of its general fund, the center said.
 Some 36 states enacted various tax and fee increases for fiscal 2004, totaling $9.6 billion, according to the National Association of State Budget Officers. 
 Here is a closer look at what some states are doing, and the effects on taxpayers.

FOCUSING ON THE WEALTHY -- Raising income taxes outright has never been popular, and few states did so during 2003. Arkansas added a 3 percent, three-year surcharge on state income taxes. Pennsylvania increased personal income tax rates across the board, Mr. Logan said.
 A more palatable solution, at least to legislators in other states, he said, has been to increase only the top tax brackets, as New York and Connecticut did. ''It affects relatively few people, but can raise a significant amount of money,'' he said. 

GOING AFTER NONRESIDENTS AND BUSINESS -- Some companies that operate in many states, Mr. Logan says, structure their transactions so that certain items, like interest and royalty income, are assigned to states that tax them lightly or not at all. But an increasing number of states are following the lead of New Jersey by passing, or at least considering, legislation to ''add back'' a portion of this income to their jurisdictions, he said. He also noted that some states were requiring withholding for nonresident business partners who do not participate in the group tax return.

RAISING SALES AND ''SIN'' TAXES -- About two-thirds of the revenue raised through tax increases has come from higher sales taxes and excise taxes on products like cigarettes and alcohol, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says. Raising such so-called sin taxes can bring in significant revenue and usually generates little opposition from the public. For fiscal 2004, some 15 states have enacted increases in cigarette and tobacco taxes, and four have raised taxes on alcoholic beverages, according to the National Association of State Budget Officers.

ADDING OR RAISING FEES -- To avoid tax increases, some states, including Florida, which has no personal income tax, have raised fees for various services or professional licenses. Massachusetts, for example, began imposing a $10 fee for a certificate of blindness so blind or legally blind residents can gain access to state services.

FORGIVING SCOFFLAWS -- More than a dozen states, including Massachusetts, Michigan, Virginia, Illinois and New York, instituted tax amnesty programs over the last two years, waiving penalties and interest for those who pay their back taxes. The program in Illinois, for example, reaped more than $500 million.
 The programs have been successful, said Nicholas Johnson, director of the state fiscal project for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, but he warned, ''If you have them too often, people will not comply because they won't take them too seriously; it's a tricky business.''

RECOUPING LOST SALES TAX -- The use-tax line is one remedy, though it's hardly a panacea for compliance. Taxpayers ''have to let their conscience be their guide,'' said Alan E. Weiner, a partner at Holtz Rubenstein & Company, an accounting firm in Melville, N.Y.
 Ms. Schaffer, for one, says she intends to keep close track of her out-of-state purchases from now on. ''I'll certainly be as careful as I need to be in the eyes of the law,'' she said.
 New York taxpayers who lose track of their purchases can refer to a chart in their returns that estimates the use tax based on adjusted gross income, but only if total purchases are less than $1,000. (Someone earning $80,000 would pay $43.) Purchases totaling more than $1,000 are calculated separately.
 New York is looking especially at residents and businesses that make big purchases. (Remember L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International, and his 2002 indictment on charges of evading more than $1 million in New York State sales tax on artwork? Mr. Kozlowski has pleaded not guilty.) States are spending more time poring over United States Customs data, checking on big purchases from outside the country. 
 At least 38 states, meanwhile, have joined a group created by the National Governors Association, called the Streamlined Sales Tax Project, to unify their sales and use tax laws, and to share information with one another. The states are pushing for Congress to pass legislation that would authorize them to collect sales taxes when residents buy goods over the Internet. That tax loss has been estimated at more than $13 billion for 2001 alone, according to the Institute for State Studies, a research group in Salt Lake City.

DECOUPLING -- To keep tax administration consistent and simple, most state tax codes had routinely conformed to the Internal Revenue Code. But after the 2001 tax-cut law was enacted, many states started to break from the federal model and adopt their own rules. In Idaho, for example, a teacher who deducts up to $250 in out-of-pocket expenses for classroom supplies on her federal tax return has to add it back to her state return.
 Several states, including New Jersey, Wisconsin and Rhode Island, rewrote their laws concerning estate taxes after the federal law began a phase-out of estate taxes in 2002, Mr. Logan noted. In 2002 and again in 2003, federal law also offered businesses the opportunity to take ''bonus'' depreciation on qualifying equipment they placed into service between certain dates. Of the 46 states with a corporate income tax, only 12 completely follow the federal rule on bonus depreciation; the remaining 34, plus the District of Columbia, either do not conform at all or modify it. 
 Nor do this year's cuts in federal taxation of capital gains and dividends directly translate into state tax cuts; no states have changed their laws to follow the federal cuts on these categories of income. 
 ''The trend was for federal and state taxes to be more similar,'' Mr. Logan said. ''Now, different rules apply. One consequence is that taxes become more difficult for the average person to understand.''
 Could that be possible? 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Monica Schaffer of Manhattan says she will keep track of her out-of-state shopping, now that she knows New York State has a tax on such purchases. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)Chart: ''States' Share''Percentage of income taken by state and local taxes.THE HIGHESTDistrict of Columbia: 12.9%Maine: 12.2New York: 12.0Minnesota: 11.0Rhode Island: 11.0NATIONAL AVERAGE: 9.7%THE LOWESTAlaska: 5.5%New Hampshire: 6.6Delaware: 7.3Tennessee: 7.7Texas: 8.3(Source by Tax Foundation)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); FOOTWEAR (90%); SALES TAX (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBURBS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); TRENDS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (70%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Tax Deductions; Taxation

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



356 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15; YOUR TAXES: TAX TIPS

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Savings Are Found In Details

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
IF the devil is in the details, so are the opportunities -- and nowhere is that truer than in the increasingly complex Internal Revenue Code. As a result, taxpayers have countless chances to save, but there are also pitfalls.

REFUND ANTICIPATION LOANS -- Need money in a hurry? How about getting a quick check in anticipation of your tax refund? ''You can get better terms from Tony Soprano,'' said Julian Block, a tax lawyer in Larchmont, N.Y.
 H&R Block, which advertises such loans, says on its Web site that Imperial Capital Bank, which provided 4.5 million refund anticipation loans to H&R Block clients in 2003, imposes finance charges of $5 to $75 for short-term loans of $200 to $7,000, which translates to an annual percentage rate of 34 percent to 129 percent, plus a $24.95 account charge.
 Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and certified public accountant, advises taxpayers who need their refunds quickly to file their returns electronically and request direct deposit to their banks. They will usually have their refunds in 10 days.

WORTHLESS SECURITIES -- Many people may want to amend returns because they did not realize they could take a loss when securities became worthless, just as if they had sold them, Mr. Kess said. In such cases, he said, ''taxpayers have seven years to file an amended return.'' If losses exceed gains, $3,000 a year can be taken against ordinary income; the rest can be carried forward to future years, offsetting other income.

RECOVERING A MISSED BREAK -- Since late 1997, people have been permitted to recognize tax-free capital gains of up to $250,000, for single filers, or $500,000, for married couples filing jointly, when they sell their principal residence, provided that they have lived in it two of the last five years.
 The law allowed people who sold homes in less than two years because of ''unforeseen circumstances'' to take part of the tax break. But many people didn't think they qualified, Mr. Kess said. The I.R.S. recently issued regulations, explained in its Publication 523, specifying that people who moved because of job or health problems, divorce or even terrorism would qualify.
 Others needlessly paid gains tax on a part of the home where they had a deductible office.
 Under the recent regulations, any of these people would have qualified for tax-free gains, he said, and they still can. To claim the break on home sales, taxpayers who sold anytime in the last three years can file amended returns and get a refund.

EDUCATION CREDITS -- Even with the economy picking up, many unemployed and underemployed people have a tough time finding jobs they want. For many, a solution is to seek more education, as a path toward a new career. For 2002 and 2003, up to $3,000 of qualified higher education expenses can be deducted by single filers with adjusted gross income of $65,000 or less ($130,000 for married couples filing jointly).
 Another break, the Lifetime Learning Credit, was doubled for 2003, to a maximum of $2,000, noted Bob D. Scharin, senior editor at RIA, a provider of tax and legal information. It is a 20 percent credit, so someone who paid tuition of $10,000 or more would qualify for the maximum credit of $2,000. JAN M. ROSEN


GRAPHIC: Illustrations (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LAWYERS (76%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); ACCOUNTING (67%); MARRIAGE (63%); WEB SITES (55%); TERRORISM (50%) Taxation

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (57%); IMPERIAL CAPITAL BANCORP INC (57%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: Jan M Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



357 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Old Tech to Sell a New Truck

BYLINE: By JEFF SABATINI

 BODY:
NO matter what happens in the Daytona 500 today, it's a safe bet that it won't be stranger than the sight of a Toyota pickup truck circling the high banks of Nascar's favorite track. 
 Days earlier, on the same raceway in Daytona Beach, Fla., Toyota became the first Japanese manufacturer ever to participate in a top-tier Nascar event, part of the Craftsman Truck Series. Toyota's venture into truck racing is part of its effort to convince buyers that its Tundra, a full-size pickup built in Indiana, is as American as light beer and power tools. 
 ''We aren't doing this on a whim,'' said Les Unger, Toyota's motorsports manager. ''We want to market trucks.''
 Toyota is a four-year veteran in stock car racing, having competed through last season in the Goody's Dash Series, the equivalent in Nascar of a minor league. The Celicas that Toyota backed in those races were powered by the only multivalve, overhead cam engines used in Nascar. When one of those cars won a race at the Kentucky Speedway in June 2001, it was the first Nascar victory for the modern engine design.
 But in the Craftsman Truck Series, Toyota must compete with the same old-school engine design that everyone else uses: a 358-cubic-inch pushrod V-8 with two valves per cylinder, topped with a carburetor.
 ''We haven't used carburetors in production cars -- or even race engines -- in forever,'' Mr. Unger said.
 Nor has Toyota, unlike its truck racing rivals, ever manufactured a pushrod V-8 engine. The company's first V-8 appeared in the Lexus LS400 sedan in the 1990 model year. In 1998, the Land Cruiser became the first vehicle wearing a Toyota badge to be fitted with a V-8, the same 4.7-liter, 32-valve, double overhead cam engine that powers production versions of the Tundra.
 In the last two decades, multivalve engines with overhead camshafts, a technology advanced by Japanese manufacturers, have become popular with consumers for their performance and fuel economy. But Nascar's engine rules originated in the 1960's, a time when ''stock cars'' were still based on the vehicles for sale at the local dealership. And the predominant engines in American cars of that era had a block-mounted camshaft that opens and closes the valves through pushrods.
 With no pushrod production engine of its own on which to base the racing version, Toyota's motorsports arm, Toyota Racing Development, designed its Craftsman Truck Series V-8 from scratch. It is building the racing motors both in California and at a satellite plant in North Carolina, in the heart of Nascar's engineering community.
 Although the technology is old in the sense of auto production, ''when you look at it from a racing perspective, the Tundra racing V-8 is a pretty sophisticated engine,'' Mr. Unger said.
 Among Toyota's rivals, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler still use pushrod engines in Chevrolet Silverado and Dodge Ram pickup trucks that they sell to the public. Ford uses only overhead cam engines in its 2004 production F-150, but it has a long history of pushrod engines.


GRAPHIC: Photos: To qualify its Tundra for Nascar races, Toyota developed a carbureted pushrod engine. (pg. 1)
 Tundra's pushrod V-8 race engine. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (93%); NASCAR RACING (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); SEDANS (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BEER & ALE (70%) Automobile Racing; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Nascar

PERSON: Jeff Sabatini

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%) Daytona Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



358 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1967 words

HEADLINE: Another Tribe and a New Round of Questions

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
THE Schaghticoke Tribal Nation's reservation in Kent is rattlesnake territory and in the summer it's eight full-time residents walk in wide circles around the reptiles' dens. In a painting of the town and the sweeping Housatonic Valley hanging in Kent Town Hall, the 400-acre reservation is almost an afterthought: the brambly rock outcropping of Schaghticoke Mountain looks uninhabitable and, aside from the residents and five homes, no one lives there. But the town is worried it will have to commission another painting soon, and this one might not be so scenic.
 When the Schaghticokes (pronounced SKAT-a-cokes) won federal recognition from the Bureau of Indian Affairs last month, residents of the quiet towns of northwestern Connecticut began having visions of traffic jams, bulldozers and backhoes and, most of all, of a casino.
 The ruling was a shock to many people in the state who have followed the Schaghticoke's application for federal recognition. The tribe, which has claimed 273 enrolled members and 42 unenrolled members, is based in the tiny Litchfield County town of Kent, though its offices are in Derby. A little more than one year ago, the bureau denied the tribe's application in a preliminary ruling, giving hope to organizations and individuals that have fought Schaghticoke land claims for decades. 
 But the tribe sent hundreds more pages of documentation to the bureau to support the claim. The ruling approving recognition was announced on Jan. 29 and was immediately denounced as a sham by state officials.
 Richard L. Velky, chief of the Schaghticokes, said he was disappointed by the state's response.
 ''The Schaghticoke Tribal Nation has lived in harmony with its neighbors for almost 300 years, while all the time enduring efforts to eliminate our people from the landscape,'' Mr. Velky said.
 Europeans wrote about the Schaghticokes as early as 1699, according to the tribe. The reservation was ''established by the Colony of Connecticut in 1737 and confirmed in 1752,'' according to the bureau. The tribe fought with the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War, a period when many American Indians sided with the British. But its population declined throughout the 19th century as overseers sold off reservation land, the Schaghticokes charged.
 Claims of abuse at the hands of local, state and federal governments continued throughout much of the Schaghticokes' modern history. In recent years, those claims have resulted in a series of lawsuits aimed at getting land back. For the last 23 years, the Schaghticokes have sought federal status that could expedite those claims.
 Federal recognition establishes more than just the authenticity of a group's heritage. It opens the door to economic opportunities for tribal members, including special federal scholarships and loans. It can also help tribes win land claims, some of which have been languishing in courts for decades. But, perhaps most significantly, federal designation opens the door to ''economic development opportunities,'' including the casino gambling industry. Federal law allows Indian tribes to operate casinos in states that already permit gambling.
 The tribe, which has reportedly already lined up wealthy backers, has not yet said it wants to open a casino and will not disclose its plans for economic development. But to many people who have studied Connecticut's tribes, the Schaghticoke's plans are a foregone conclusion.
 ''In Connecticut, seeking federal recognition is tantamount to seeking a casino,'' said Brett D. Fromson, the author of ''Hitting the Jackpot,'' the story of how the Mashantucket Pequots built Foxwoods casino. ''This story is fundamentally about money.''
 That bureau announcement brought harsh condemnation from state officials, including the governor and Richard Blumenthal, the attorney general.
 ''The state is determined to challenge and reverse the B.I.A. decision because it is so fundamentally flawed,'' Mr. Blumenthal said. ''They lack evidence for as much as 150 years of continuing existence as a community and continuing internal political authority and governance.''
 Mr. Blumenthal has since met with representatives from about a dozen cities and towns concerned about the implications of the ruling. Some of those municipalities, including Danbury, plan to file their own appeals or join the state in its appeal.
 Mr. Blumenthal said he expected that the appeal process will take years, during which time the tribe cannot move forward with new development projects. The state's decision last year to repeal its ''Las Vegas Nights'' gambling law may also slow or stop any plans for a casino.
 Kent itself is less concerned about a casino than about the land claims that the Schaghticokes have made on more than 2,000 acres adjacent to the existing reservation. Except for one town road and a section of the Appalachian Trail, that land is privately owned and maintained. Among the owners are the private Kent School and the Preston Mountain Club, a fishing club.
 Though the town is an unlikely site for a casino, the tribe still planned to develop any new land it gets in the Kent area if it wins the suit. That possibility has residents on edge.
 ''My concern is that they can do anything zoning-wise that they want,'' said Sabina M. Gibson, a 33-year resident who attended a public meeting with the town's lawyer at Town Hall shortly after the tribe was recognized. ''They could build a 10-or 15-story retirement home.''
 Indeed, many people in the town fear they've lost control over their future, that the money and time they've put into keeping developers and fast-food restaurants out of the area is all for naught. Kent has steadfastly avoided the kind of strip-mall development of its neighbor to the south, New Milford.
 Buildings in Kent can occupy no more than 9,000 square feet. In a casino, one resident said, ''the men's rooms are 9,000 feet.''
 Mr. Velky wants to reassure residents that the tribe doesn't want to plant skyscrapers next to the Housatonic River. He also said he thought the implication that Indians don't know how to preserve land is ridiculous.
 ''I find it ironic that the townspeople feel that way, given that the land was full of trees and rivers before it was taken away from us,'' he said. ''I don't think they need to be concerned about things of that nature.''
 The tribe placed a moratorium on building on the reservation in 1975, while its land claims were being challenged. The 400 acres now in tribal hands were not suitable for tribal elders and others who wish to move back, he said.
 ''You need to be a mountain goat to enjoy the better part of it,'' Mr. Velky said.
 If the tribe wins the lawsuits, 80 families plan to move back to the reservation, setting up single-family houses on the 2,000 acres. The tribe may file more land claims in the future, after it finishes researching them, Mr. Velky added.
 Mr. Velky has not received a good reception in the town. The one time he showed up to a meeting here, it devolved into a ''not amiable situation,'' residents said.
 At least he was invited to the Kent meeting. In Danbury, the mayor won't even talk to the tribe's leaders.
 ''I refuse to sit down with them. The community is pretty united that they're opposed to it,'' Mark Boughton, the mayor, said referring to a casino.
 Residents feared that the tribe is eyeing about 550 acres that used to house Union Carbide headquarters. The tribe indicated an interest in that land in late 2001.
 Mr. Velky has said the tribe will not build a casino in any city that does not want one. But cities and towns in western Connecticut aren't taking any chances.
 ''They've kind of talked both ways,'' Mr. Boughton said. ''They say they won't go where they're not wanted, but then they put out a list of properties they're interested in and Danbury was at the top.''
 A casino doesn't fit into Danbury's economic development plans, Mr. Boughton said.
 ''We certainly would rather have corporate executives and clerical assistants than blackjack dealers and cocktail waitresses,'' he said.
 But Douglas Koenig, the general manager of the Sheraton Danbury Hotel, which sits next to the Union Carbide site, said he thought a casino could entice those corporate executives to hold conferences in Danbury.
 ''They could come here to work and do business and then go out to the casino on the weekends,'' he said.
 Other cities have been more open to the idea of a casino.
 The day before Gov. John G. Rowland said he opposed new casinos in Connecticut during his State of the State address, gambling was getting a different reception in another corner of the state.
 In his State of the City address on Feb. 2, Bridgeport Mayor John M. Fabrizi said he was willing to entertain the idea of a casino.
 ''If it's good for Bridgeport, if it creates jobs, and contributes to our general fund, then it's on the table for discussion,'' he said of casino gambling, emphasizing his point with a word that hadn't been written into the speech. ''Period.''
 In an interview afterward, Mr. Fabrizi acknowledged that he had met with tribal leaders, but said the city is still far away from opening a casino.
 ''It's still way, way too early to start to get into a casino debate,'' Mr. Fabrizi said. ''It all depends on what's in the details.''
 Michael J. Jarjura, the mayor of Waterbury, has also met with tribal leaders to discuss the possibility of a casino.
 ''Like anything else, I'm not going to dismiss it out of hand,'' he said. ''There's a lot of negative social impacts, but there's also a tremendous economic upside for the city in terms of 5,000 to 8,000 new jobs.''
 Mr. Jarjura said the casino question would have to go to a referendum. Unlike Danbury, he said, the city isn't in a situation to close the door on economic development.
 Stephen R. Sasala, president and chief executive of the Greater Waterbury Chamber of Commerce, said the promise of a casino will likely be more enticing to a struggling city than a prospering one. Danbury, he said, ''is in a stronger position to dismiss it out of hand.''
 ''In a city like Waterbury, it would be very tempting to look at a gaming operation and think this could be a panacea,'' he said. ''What you need to take into consideration is that while you may have new job opportunities, you have to look at what kinds of jobs you will create.''
 Mr. Sasala, who previously worked for New Jersey's Department of Community Affairs overseeing Atlantic City, said casinos often drive out existing businesses. Right now, Waterbury, which was all but abandoned by the brass industry decades ago, is focusing on expanding skilled metalwork and health care businesses in the city.
 Even the experts are conflicted about the economic impact of casinos.
 A 2000 study by the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut that was commissioned by the Pequots, called Foxwoods an ''economic growth marvel for the state and the immediate region.''
 The study found that the casino upped the gross state product by $1.2 billion and directly or indirectly generated more than 41,000 jobs. Lincoln Dyer, an economist at the State Department of Labor, said about 23,000 people work in casinos in the state, making $27,000 to $30,000, on average.
 But Representative Diana Urban of North Stonington said the study suffered from a lack of empirical evidence. Though millions pass through Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun's doors every year, few leave the casino to explore southeastern Connecticut, she said.
 ''You would hope that there would be some kind of economic web that would develop around a casino,'' she said. ''But the problem with casinos is that it's like going to Oz. People want to get there. They don't want to stop along the way and buy a dress or go to a restaurant. They want to go to the casino.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Schaghticoke Mountain in Kent is the home of the Schaghticokes. Residents recently attended a meeting, left, to ask about the tribe's federal recognition. At right, downtown Kent. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The reservation of the Schaghticoke tribe, which received federal recognition last month, is on about 400 acres of Schaghticoke Mountain.
Richard Velky, Schaghticoke chief, facing camera,being congratulated after the federal decision. (Photo by Associated Press)
 Schaghticoke Mountain rises above downtown Kent. Residents fear development if a casino were built nearby. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); GAMING (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); LITIGATION (68%); HISTORY (65%) Indians, American; Gambling; Casinos ; Schagticoke Indians

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (83%) Bureau of Indian Affairs

PERSON: Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Kent (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



359 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 8032 words

HEADLINE: The Permanent Scars of Iraq

BYLINE: By Sara Corbett. 
Sara Corbett is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Robert Shrode can't sleep.
 At night, in the fly-speck town of Guthrie, Ky., in the rented farmhouse he shares with his 20-year-old wife, Debra, he surfs the Internet, roams the house. He lies down and gets up again. He drinks a beer and stares out the window at the black fields beyond. Hours pass. He can't sleep. Before the war, he could have six beers and sleep like a baby, but now that works against him. Drinking may help get his head to the pillow, but it also ratchets up the nightmares. For a while, he sweated out his bad dreams on the living-room couch, and it drove Debra crazy. She would come down from the bedroom, touch his shoulder, ask what the problem was. Shrode would just turn his back to her and not say a word. Now she knows better than to ask, though occasionally when the silence between them gets too deep, she'll put it out there, What're you thinking about?
 ''Iraq,'' he'll say. And then the silence falls again. 
 He pops Ambien to coax some sleep. The results are mixed. On the advice of his doctors, he is taking three different pills for pain, a pill for swelling and another pill for depression. There are days when he is unrecognizable to himself, a guy who a few years ago was a party-loving bartender at a Mississippi casino and who is now 29 and engaged in what can feel like a never-ending battle to see his own future brightly.
 The only person who understands him is his buddy Brent Bricklin, a restless, dark-haired 22-year-old and fellow Army specialist in the 101st Airborne Division, who is also home after serving in Iraq. Most mornings, Shrode picks up Bricklin at Fort Campbell, the sprawling base that straddles the Kentucky-Tennessee state line where both men are stationed, and they go driving. It's always more or less the same. They drive through the buttressed gates of the base, patrolled by armed National Guardsmen, and turn onto Fort Campbell Boulevard, passing the check-cashing outfits, the strip clubs and gun-and-ammo shops that, during peacetime anyway, boom with military business. 
 Shrode sometimes jokes that he loves his Chevy Tahoe more than his wife, and it's half true. The Tahoe is a big upholstered bubble, a place where he can watch the world drift by harmlessly. Inside it, he shares more with Bricklin than he does with Debra, whom he met at a nightclub in 2002 and married three months before going to war. ''I can talk to him -- I can't talk to my wife,'' Shrode says. ''But 30 seconds with him, and I feel better.''
 Not far from the base, they pass a pint-size Kia driving in the next lane. Someone has used soap to write a self-congratulatory ''Back From Iraq'' in large letters across the rear window. This being December, the only soldiers back from Iraq are ones sent home because of expired enlistments or for medical reasons or those on their way to being transferred elsewhere. The bulk of the division -- some 20,000 local soldiers -- remains at war. Shrode and Bricklin stare down at the Kia. 
 ''Dumb idiot,'' Bricklin says. Shrode says nothing. 
 It's been nearly six months since Shrode and Bricklin arrived home from Iraq. Shrode lost most of his right arm, which was amputated just below the elbow in a Baghdad field hospital. Even healed, his face is pitted with purple shrapnel scars the size of raindrops. Bricklin, a broad-shouldered former competitive swimmer who came home honeycombed with shrapnel, bears larger, raw-looking scars from his thigh to his neck. Both men have significant hearing loss, cocking their heads like a couple of old-timers in order to grasp what's said. They are plagued by headaches and are convinced they've had some memory loss. Between them, they've had nine operations since getting, as they like to say, ''blown up'' in Iraq. Shrode, who is shorter and stockier than Bricklin and speaks with a soft Alabama accent, still visits the base hospital five days a week for occupational therapy. Once a month, he sees a military therapist. He has tried, without luck, to persuade Bricklin to get individual counseling too.
 ''He says I took it harder than I say I do,'' Bricklin says with a deflective smile. 
 ''He did,'' Shrode says.
 ''He's says I'm messed up in the head.''
 ''You are,'' Shrode says earnestly.
 It's a subject Bricklin doesn't want to discuss. He playfully jabs a finger near the stump of his friend's arm: ''How much feeling you got left in this thing, anyway? Let's find out.''
 Both men say they feel more vulnerable since coming back from war. When someone recently dropped a tray in the hospital cafeteria, Shrode dove, horror-struck, beneath the table. A crackling summer thunderstorm sent Bricklin into a panic, convinced he was caught in the back blast of a grenade again. Both say they have frequent nightmares. And then there's something less tangible, a visceral undercurrent of anger that makes them walk around feeling ready to explode. ''I can go from being happy-go-lucky and joking to having someone's throat in my hand, like that,'' Bricklin says, snapping his fingers. Shrode nods. ''My fuse is short,'' he says. ''It's real short.''
 Shrode and Bricklin are 2 of the 2,600 United States soldiers wounded in action in Iraq as of early this month, according to the Department of Defense. The basics of their stories are hauntingly familiar: just after midnight one night in June, a rocket-propelled grenade shrieked out of nowhere and hit their Humvee, which sat parked at a police station in the Baathist city of Fallujah. What was reported in the news bore the standard sterility: ''One soldier killed; five others injured.'' What wasn't said was that Branden Oberleitner, the private who died standing almost shoulder to shoulder with Shrode, was a car buff who once planned to become a firefighter or that he was killed two weeks shy of his 21st birthday. It didn't say that his blood was all over the road. 
 But for whatever societal void the dead disappear into, it is the wounded who must live with the confounding mix of anonymity and exposure wrought by surviving a war. On and off the Army base, Shrode is approached by strangers who size up his military haircut and missing arm and feel compelled to heap on the thanks for serving in Iraq. They all but ignore Bricklin, who is often with him but whose injuries remain hidden. Shrode finds the situation reliably awkward, sensing a whiff of pity riding on the backside of flattery. The people who open doors for him, he says, make him feel handicapped. And then there are those whose gazes follow him wordlessly as he makes his way down the buffet line at the China King restaurant near the base -- drawn, it would seem, to the spectacle of a one-armed man working to load his plate. 
 The discomfort feels irresolvable. ''Somebody stares at it, I get mad at them,'' Shrode says. ''Somebody looks away, and I get mad at that.'' 
 For both soldiers, the tension between themselves and the rest of the world builds up quickly and with no real outlet. Bricklin has had one run-in with the police and says that he's been a jerk ''to anyone who didn't go'' to war. Even when someone shows concern for their well-being -- when Debra touches her husband's shoulder or a stranger flashes a kindly smile -- the effect can be abrasive. One day, as Shrode was walking down a hospital hallway, a civilian passing by happened to toss out an innocent ''Howyadoin','' which somehow, in that moment, became the last straw. ''Ninety-nine percent of the time, I tell them what they want to hear,'' Shrode says. But in this instance he couldn't help blurting out a truth that was becoming more evident each day. ''Buddy,'' he said, ''I'm going to hurt the rest of my life.'' 
Every other Tuesday, Shrode drives over to Fort Campbell's mental-health building to attend a support-group meeting for injured soldiers. Before going to Iraq, before being wounded, he wouldn't have been caught dead doing something like this. Support groups were the stuff of Oprah -- helpful for others, maybe, but not for him. 
 Given the uncomfortable silence before a session begins, it is clear that Shrode is not the only squeamish one. The soldiers -- usually anywhere between 5 and 15 of them -- sit in a circle of couches and chairs in the cramped linoleum-floored waiting room of the mental-health building, looking almost like a roomful of unusually clean-cut college kids gathering for a study group. Except that one walks with a cane. Several others have burn sleeves covering their arms. A woman with a bobbed haircut wears an arm splint. There's a guy -- an Apache helicopter pilot -- who has balance problems. His neighbor, a muscled young corporal, winces as he takes a seat. When they make chitchat, it tends to be about skin grafts and medication and how there aren't enough handicapped parking spaces on base. Occasionally, some will compare scars, hiking up pants and shirts and inspecting the wreckage of someone else's limb or torso. ''Hey, yours is growing hair back!'' one soldier says to another. ''That's pretty good.''
 For every broken body in this room, there are hundreds more confined to hospital beds across the country and hundreds more again who, by choice or by circumstance, are gutting out the effects of their injuries without the help of peers or mental-health counselors. It has been suggested that the wounded are the hidden casualties of the Iraq war, stranded somewhere between our grief for the dead and a wartime patriotism best stirred by the belief that our troops are both productive and healthy. Thanks to the lifesaving properties of body armor and largely impenetrable Kevlar helmets, combined with highly advanced battlefield medicine, more soldiers are surviving explosions and gunfire than in previous wars. The downside of this is that the injury rate in Iraq is high: an average of nine soldiers have been injured per day. The pace shows little sign of slowing, which means it's possible we will bring home another 1,500 wounded before the start of summer. Some military experts worry that in the next four months -- as the U.S. rotates roughly 110,000 new troops into Iraq, many of them reservists and National Guardsmen with less combat training than the full-time soldiers they are replacing -- injury rates could climb even higher.
 The government's reports on the wounded can be confusing. In early February, the Department of Defense Web site listed 2,600 soldiers as wounded in action in Iraq and another 403 as injured in ''nonhostile'' incidents like helicopter or motor-vehicle accidents. Meanwhile, the Army Surgeon General's office said that only 804 soldiers have been evacuated with battle wounds and that over 2,800 have been injured accidentally. In addition, the Surgeon General's office reported that another 5,184 soldiers have been evacuated from the theater for other medical reasons, which could include anything from kidney stones to nervous breakdowns. To date, 569 of these have qualified as psychiatric casualties.
 Although many of the soldiers who attend the support group at Fort Campbell have escaped enemy fire, their injuries reflect the full spectrum of what can go wrong during war: Sgt. Jenni McKinley had her right hand crushed when her Humvee blew a tire and flipped over on a sandy road outside of Baghdad. Chief Warrant Officers Emanuel Pierre and Stuart Contant were pilots whose Apache helicopter reportedly malfunctioned and then crashed in Afghanistan, requiring them to spend months in the hospital and to endure multiple operations. There is a medic who is physically uninjured but tormented to the point of agony by memories of treating his wounded and dying colleagues. And then there is a quiet young private who comes because her hair is falling out and her fingers are numb and nobody seems able to tell her why. 
 These soldiers generally are no less disabled than those who were hit by AK-47 fire. Sgt. Jeremy Gilbert, another medic, laments that he never made it into Iraq at all, since a week before the invasion, a Kuwaiti civilian driving 90 miles per hour plowed into Gilbert's Humvee, shattering the soldier's right leg and pelvis and relegating him to a wheelchair for five months. ''There's nothing glamorous about the way I got hurt,'' says Gilbert, who wept in frustration as he watched the first live footage of the Army's invasion of Iraq from a bed at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. ''But it sure has trashed my life.'' 
 Operating with a blend of military toughness and quiet empathy, the injured soldiers' support group -- believed to be the first of its kind on an Army base -- has taken on everything from fractured self images and faltering marriages to traumatic memories of Iraq and the pervading question of what each soldier's future looks like in the wake of both war and injury. Yet there is little that's 12-step about it. You won't find group hugs or even metaphorical handholding here. Nor is there any second-guessing whether it was worth it to go to war in the first place. In the context of the Army's rigid hierarchy and low tolerance for weakness, the power of the support group, it seems, comes from its ability to listen.
 The first time I visited, in late November, conversation was dominated by one soldier, a newcomer who looked to be in his early 30's, with a spinal injury that had required some of his vertebrae to be fused together. As a result, his neck appeared stiff and unyielding; his back, ramrod straight. He spent the better part of an hour raging about various things that angered him, mainly the way his commanders were treating him and issues he had with his medical care. When he spoke, it was at a full shout, letting out a stream of emotion so potent and vituperative that it seemed his rigid body might launch right off the chair. The other soldiers listened, expressionless except for Brent Bricklin, who leaned back in his chair with a smirk, as if he wasn't buying a word of it. It wasn't until the newcomer mentioned that he wished he were back in Iraq that anybody else chimed in.
 ''I miss it, too,'' another soldier said. ''At least there was a purpose.''
 ''I wish I was in Iraq because my buddies are there,'' Robert Shrode offered.
 Heads in the group began to nod. The atmosphere seemed to lighten. But then the newcomer -- or Angry Neck Man, as some of the others would later call him -- charged headlong into another furious rant.
 A while later, sitting with Terry James, the easygoing retired first sergeant who moderates the group and works as a counselor at Fort Campbell, I remarked upon how unnerving I found the soldier's anger, how potentially violent it seemed. James just laughed. ''That's how they all come to us,'' he said. ''Pretty much everyone starts out mad. Any other place in the military would've cut him off, wouldn't have let him get his anger out.'' 
 The line between venting and sniveling, however, can be imperceptibly thin. One soldier's fury may set off another's, as was the case in a meeting where a soldier ran on too long, in Shrode's opinion, kvetching about a minor gunshot wound in his shoulder: ''He was whining and complaining and I said: 'Shut up. I'd love to be in your situation. There's a lot of people worse off than you and worse off than me.''' At another meeting, a soldier who had been run over by a truck complained to the group he hadn't received a Purple Heart -- the medal reserved for soldiers injured or killed in combat. ''I told him to get lost,'' says Shrode, who received a Purple Heart last summer. ''And then I got up and left.''
 A number of soldiers confess that they were initially put off by the concept of group therapy, figuring it was going to be ''a bunch of guys crying and wiping snot on their sleeves.'' Most insist they attend not for emotional release but rather to receive information -- about disability benefits or discharge procedures. The soldiers' questions often reflect a me-against-the-world mistrust of what's to come, an indistinct but entirely accurate perception that this country has failed veterans of past wars. The war will stay with them, they realize, but after a point the Army won't. 
 For many, including Robert Shrode, the question is when and how to formalize their separation from the military. Everyone in the group is an active-duty soldier, though many say they are doing little more than showing up for morning formation these days -- either too consumed by pain and doctors' appointments or simply uninspired to work while their units are still in Iraq. Yet there is little that's light about what they face. In order to be medically discharged, soldiers must go before the Army Physical Evaluation Board, which assesses their injuries and then either approves or disapproves the discharge. Eventually they receive a ''disability rating'' from the Department of Veterans Affairs, which determines how much money they are eligible for. A soldier deemed ''100 percent disabled'' is granted a base payment of $2,239 monthly. (The payment can be supplemented depending on the severity of the injury.) Though the V.A. judges each case individually, an amputated arm generally gets you a 60 to 90 percent disability rating. Shrode has been told that his hearing loss and depression will likely further increase his rating.
 It's the promise of a new arm that keeps him in the Army. When I met him, Shrode was waiting to get a state-of-the-art prosthetic, worth $35,000 and paid for by the government. The Army had flown him several times to Walter Reed to work with its best occupational therapists, training the tiny reflexive muscles in his elbow so that they eventually could control the carbon-fiber myoelectric hand that was being custom-built for him in Nashville. If the new arm didn't work out well, Shrode faced a cruel choice: he could have his elbow amputated in order to be fitted with a different and more effective type of prosthetic.
 When it came to fake arms, though, he was hardly optimistic. In August, he had been given a low-tech prosthetic, with a hook where the hand should be, and while he had quickly proved to be a whiz at putting pegs into the pegboards they thrust at him at occupational therapy, he hated both the look and feel of it, preferring to master real-life tasks with his one good arm. He had proudly learned to lace and tie his boots and was working on figuring out how to cut a steak. When we went driving, Shrode smoked a cigarette with his left hand, ably piloting the Tahoe with one knee. In the meantime, his right arm -- or the piece of plastic that was supposed to pass for it -- rolled around neglected in the back seat.
A tornado siren blasts, and Jenni McKinley rips up her pickup truck, hunting for a gas mask. A car backfires, and she dives for cover. The panic is instant and the charge for safety instinctive and ultimately embarrassing as she climbs to her feet again, bug-eyed and looking for snipers, instead finding the Kroger parking lot full of oblivious cart-pushing families. A person can come to doubt her sanity this way.
 Then there is the dead marine who visits her as she tries to sleep. A young guy, he can be angry, accusative, and sometimes he just shows up quietly and stares at her until she's jarred awake, heart racing -- another night's rest stolen away.
 McKinley is 27 and a career soldier, having logged eight years with the Army, and is hoping to stay until she has earned her military retirement benefits after 20 years of service. Off duty, she has a gentle manner, a dry wit and a penchant for good wines. On duty, she has worked hard to achieve the rank of sergeant, completing tours in Korea and Kosovo, where she led a small team of mostly men. As a female soldier, McKinley says she feels the pressure to constantly prove herself, to remain emotionally bulletproof. But Iraq really got to her. 
 ''I didn't handle war the way I thought I was going to,'' she told me one night over dinner at a Red Lobster on a strip-malled stretch of road not far from Fort Campbell. ''I thought I was going to do my job, be strong. But three days into it, I broke down crying. The scuds were flying. We were waking up to the sounds of explosions over our heads. It was terrifying.'' Whatever fear she felt, nobody saw it: she ducked into an empty field tent to do her crying. Three days later, in 115-degree heat, McKinley's Humvee rolled over, pinning her beneath it and all but destroying her right hand. 
 Since arriving back in the United States in April, McKinley has been told she suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder, which garnered recognition in the years following the Vietnam War and today is used to describe the most crippling psychological effects of trauma. The name may be new, but the concept isn't. Research on World War I veterans showed that even those who might be termed well adjusted still reported that they were quick to anger, forgetful, anxious and regularly suffering from headaches and dizziness. Traumatized World War II vets were commonly referred to as having ''battle fatigue.'' Today the military uses the term ''combat stress'' to describe a range of symptoms including anxiety, sleeplessness and depression, but post-traumatic stress disorder itself generally is diagnosed only when the symptoms become ''intrusive'' -- in other words, when they start to really mess up a soldier's or veteran's life.
 McKinley has a difficult time parsing the source of her post-traumatic stress disorder. Does it stem from the shock of the Humvee accident? Was it the flying scud missiles or the sirens that wailed nearly hourly early on in the war, signaling possible incoming chemical or biological weapons? Or maybe it was the marine who lay bleeding on the stretcher next to hers at a desert combat support hospital. He was younger than she was and had been shot in the face several times. As McKinley lay watching in a morphine haze, a doctor and team of nurses worked to stabilize him. Just as they moved on to examine her mangled hand, he flat-lined and the doctor rushed back to revive him. But the soldier flat-lined again. The doctor jump-started the marine's heart twice, three times, only to have it fail -- again and again -- until the nurses finally pried him off the soldier's body. After a time, McKinley boosted herself up and took a long look at the dead man's face -- maybe to honor him and maybe to learn something. She still doesn't know why.
 Her case of post-traumatic stress disorder most likely stems from the combination of these events. Researchers believe that the condition is not always connected to a specific incident and can, in fact, be spawned by repeated exposure to fear or by bearing witness to something violent or traumatic or by experiencing moral uncertainty connected to these things. Depending on the intangibles of a person's background and ability to either process or shut out stress, there are those who come through war relatively unscathed and those who don't. It's as if every psyche has a reservoir for trauma, and some fill faster than others -- each soldier's breaking point different from the next one's. And while many G.I.'s manage to hold it together during a deployment, the repression of emotion over time can lead to a tumultuous homecoming. Post-traumatic stress disorder is considered controllable but not curable, and often it will flare up years after the original trauma. In 1994, for example, Veterans of Foreign Wars officials noticed a significant spike in claims of post-traumatic stress disorder -- not from soldiers returning from Operation Desert Storm or Somalia but rather from World War II veterans whose nightmares were revved by the hoopla surrounding the 50th anniversary of D-Day.
 Since McKinley returned to the United States in April, the vision of the dead marine's face has sat in her mind like an elephant blocking the road. ''When I first got home, the nightmares were him basically calling me selfish, asking why didn't I help save him,'' she said, her voice so grave and quiet that it was nearly inaudible. ''And now it's changed to he's asking me why I didn't go with him.''
 McKinley has two children, ages 4 and 6, who live with her ex-husband 50 miles away in Nashville but spend weekends at her two-bedroom apartment close to Fort Campbell. With virtually no use of her right hand, she has struggled with the smallest of maternal tasks, from opening jars to cutting vegetables and carrying laundry. Before she began treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder, a child's simple request for apple juice could send her into a tailspin; her sleepless nights left her snappish, unloving. ''My husband would come pick the kids up on Sundays,'' she said, ''and before they'd get halfway home, I'd be calling on the cellphone, crying and asking if I could apologize to them for how I'd acted.'' 
 The low point came on the day she managed to change the sheets on her queen-size bed -- a task that, one-handed, became a two-hour ordeal. In the end, she was nothing short of triumphant, with a bed orderly enough to pass a military inspection. And then the children arrived, tumbling through the door as they always did, eventually settling down on McKinley's bed to watch TV as she cooked dinner. But sitting on the bed led to jumping on the bed, which in turn led to tearing off the sheets in an exuberant frenzy. McKinley became unhinged. ''I completely lost my mind on them,'' she said, sounding as if she were still startled by it. ''I was throwing sheets and screaming.'' For a full month afterward, she slept on the living room couch, unable to confront the bed again.
 It was pure desperation that led her to the support group, which she learned about through her occupational therapist at Fort Campbell's hospital. ''I didn't know what was wrong with my head,'' she recalled. But hearing other soldiers talk about what they were grappling with helped her understand that she needed -- and had access to -- help. ''After the first meeting, I almost cried with relief,'' she said. The sessions also gave her the courage to see a therapist, who prescribed Clonazepam for her anxiety and Lexapro, an antidepressant. On her third visit to the group, she managed to sputter out the story of the dead marine before breaking down in tears. When she tried to stuff the emotion back inside, it wouldn't go. ''I didn't want anyone to see me that weak, so I grabbed my keys and started to get up to leave,'' McKinley remembered. And then came the kind of touchy-feely moment so many of the soldiers claim they're not looking for: the guy sitting next to her, one of the wounded helicopter pilots, laid a friendly hand on her shoulder, coaxed her back into her seat and, without saying a word, let her know that it was O.K.
Often during my visits with injured soldiers at Fort Campbell, I would ask what they envisioned as happening in the next few months when the rest of the 101st Airborne -- plus another 100,000 or so troops around the country -- began arriving home as part of the largest troop rotation since World War II. Would returning soldiers suffer the same nightmares and anxiety, the same alienation from both intimates and the world at large, that so many of the soldiers I encountered described having? In essence, I wondered whether the wounded, as the first large group to come back from Iraq, were like canaries in a coal mine, their postwar struggles foretelling those of thousands soon to come. Usually the answers ran along the same lines. ''There will be problems,'' Robert Shrode said. ''There'll be a lot of short fuses, a lot of intolerance. People are going to have to be patient with these guys.''
 The fact that post-traumatic stress disorder can develop from fear and anxiety raises particular implications in a war like the one in Iraq, where a seemingly straightforward army-versus-army scenario has long been dispensed with, replaced by the uncertainties of guerrilla warfare. Though military researchers have estimated that 25 percent of soldiers on the front lines of a war will experience combat stress, it seems possible that for Iraq the numbers will be even greater. ''These troops know no front line,'' says Alfonso Batres, the clinical psychologist in charge of readjustment counseling services for the 206 Vet Centers around the country. ''It's just like Vietnam. They have to be on guard with everyone; they're always facing an unknown. In some ways, fighting a conventional war is a lot easier on the psyche.''
 Even as the military works to provide mental-health care, history shows that the vast majority of soldiers returning from war will never seek help. Or they will do it years later, when the psychological afterburn has wreaked havoc on their lives. Steve Tice, a retired Vet Center counselor and disabled Vietnam veteran, refers to the legions of soldiers who live alone with destructive war memories as the ''invisible wounded.'' Says Tice, ''There's this unfortunate stigma we attach to soldiers who say, 'I hurt.' And so soldiers don't say anything.''
 In this respect, it is conceivable that the physically wounded may have a slight advantage over their peers. Whereas most soldiers without major injuries will touch down on American soil and undergo a relatively impersonal and perfunctory post-deployment medical screening before returning to duty, many of the injured soldiers have already spent months being routinely examined, assessed and questioned about their well-being -- arguably making it easier to ask for help. 
 One morning I stopped in on Jeremy Gilbert, the medic hurt in Kuwait, as he sat on a hospital bed, awaiting the fourth operation on his leg in six months. His cane lay hooked over the arm of a nearby chair. Two weeks earlier, just as he sensed he was making progress healing, an infection flared up and remained untamed by antibiotics. This was his 10th day as an inpatient, and he was accordingly listless. He had brought his Xbox and was playing video games to pass the time. ''My morale is kind of down,'' he confessed.
 Across the hallway from Gilbert's room on Ward 4A-B, the beds were full -- two to a room -- of soldiers freshly evacuated from Iraq. I had met a National Guardsman from Kansas who had been hit by an improvised explosive device in the Sunni Triangle, an Army sergeant from California who had had his leg fractured in a roadside ambush and a small-framed 21-year-old New Yorker who had collapsed during a long march and now had permanent nerve damage in both legs. For the most part, they seemed stunned, anxious to be cleared to go home on convalescent leave, and not quite ready to talk about what had happened.
 But Gilbert, who as one of the first casualties to be flown out of the gulf seemed to relish the role of elder statesman, used his own experience to predict what lay ahead. ''At first you're like, wow, I'm injured,'' he told me. ''The news on television is all about Iraq. You're like, this is good; I was part of something good. But then suddenly the news is bad -- it's all about soldiers dying -- and you're not healing the way you thought you would. You start thinking, I wish they'd cut my leg off. You think maybe I was supposed to die.''
 Gilbert refers frequently to his ''bitter period,'' which stretched through the summer and involved a lot of sitting around in a wheelchair, playing solitaire, watching ''M*A*S*H'' reruns and refusing to leave the house except for doctors' appointments. It ended, slowly, after his wife, Andrea, who was pregnant with their first child, begged him to ask his doctors for antidepressants. He says he resisted, knowing his request would become part of his medical records, potentially affecting security clearances and promotions in what he hoped would be a full military career. (This was a sticking point for a number of soldiers I spoke with: patient privacy laws apply only loosely in the military, where commanders have access to a soldier's medical history, including what goes on in counseling sessions.) For Andrea Williams-Gilbert, the kick in the pants she gave her husband represented a small bit of military-spouse activism. ''Wives and family members shouldn't have to go through some of what we have to because their spouses are afraid to go on antidepressants,'' she told me. ''It's not fair to anyone.''
 Even stabilized with Elavil, Gilbert said he has cycled through ups and downs, and Andrea, an outgoing blond Arkansan who was hugely pregnant when I first met her, does what she can to ride the waves. ''He'll say something touchy, and I'm out of there,'' she told me in November. ''I just head out the door and go walking.'' A week or so later, just before Thanksgiving, their daughter, Lauren, was born. Until he was hospitalized again, Gilbert had been more buoyant, regularly reporting for physical therapy, taking classes at a local university and doting, as best he could, on his wife and child. He was hoping to stay in the Army for a few more years after he recovered, but worried that if he ''toughed it out'' for a while, the fact that he was able to perform his duties (though in pain) would lower his disability rating when he did leave the service -- a difference of potentially thousands of dollars. And as it often does, fatherhood also rearranged his priorities. While earlier he was eager to get well so he could be redeployed to the Middle East, he announced to the support group in December that he'd changed his mind. ''I'm not going back there,'' he said, imagining a conversation with some higher-up in the Army. ''I'm not going to die for you.''
 Whether he had wised up or had grown pessimistic, it was hard to say. Knowing that the rest of the 101st Airborne Division was soon to return to Fort Campbell, Gilbert made another prediction from his hospital bed, saying he had a ''bad feeling'' about the homecoming. ''You've got a lot of units pulling security every single day, doing missions every single day,'' he said. ''They're seeing explosions, shootings, burning bodies. And they're going to bring that back to a place where there are lots of people who just won't get it. We're about to have 20,000 people walk through their front door for the first time in a year.'' He pursed his lips, shook his head as if still thinking about it and then laughed. ''If I were a divorce lawyer, I'd be in high cotton this winter.''
Remembering how lonely she was as an inpatient at the base hospital, Jenni McKinley sometimes finishes her daily occupational-therapy appointment on the second floor and wanders up to Ward 4-AB to pop in on new arrivals from Iraq. It was there that she met Caleb Nall, a blue-eyed 23-year-old corporal from Louisiana who was recovering after being hit in the back by a rocket-propelled grenade. His torso had been severely burned; a gaping shrapnel wound had hollowed out part of his pelvis, and his left leg had been damaged. The explosion left him about 70 percent deaf in one ear. ''He was frustrated and tired of being in bed,'' McKinley said. She showed him her scars, invited him to come to the next support-group meeting and then the next day dropped off a few back issues of Maxim magazine and a case of Dr. Pepper. 
 When it came time for the group's next meeting, Nall showed up. He wore a pile jacket and a pair of jeans, his wounds hidden well away but his anger fully exposed. After a visiting V.A. representative started to natter on about how soldiers needed medical evidence and a formal diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder to receive relevant disability payments, Nall jumped in. ''Would you say waking up with the sound of a mortar round going off next to your head counts?'' he asked, the bitterness thinly wrapped in his Louisiana drawl. ''Jumping six inches off your bed?'' 
 After the V.A. rep left, Nall turned to the group at large. ''Anyone else here having sleep problems?'' he asked.
 Brent Bricklin raised his hand. So did Jeremy Gilbert and Jenni McKinley and Robert Shrode, as well as four of the five other soldiers who had come that day. Everybody but Nall burst out laughing.
 ''Is there something else they did for you?'' he continued, perplexed. ''I'm on morphine, Percocet, Elavil. . . .''
 ''I did Vicodin and Benadryl, but they counteract each other,'' offered a soldier across the room.
 ''Have you tried drinking?'' asked another.
 Nall nodded earnestly. ''I take two Percocets and drink two six packs of beer, and I still can't sleep.'' 
 This set off a voluble round of pharmaceutical recipe-swapping. Injured soldiers, I have learned, are nothing if not experts on painkillers and sleep aids. And yet little seems truly to work. A few complain that their antidepressants cause them to sleep all the time; more -- like Nall -- report that they sit up half the night in a drugged daze, waiting for sleep to come. 
 It was on one of these nights not long ago that a garbage truck arrived at 2:30 a.m. to empty the Dumpsters at Nall's off-base apartment. At the first slam of a Dumpster on pavement, Nall, who had been dozing in an easy chair dressed only in his underwear, was back in Iraq. ''My rifle was sitting in the corner,'' he said. ''I grabbed it, ran outside and made a loop around the block.'' Here, he paused to shake his head at just how scary this seemed in retrospect, and how utterly beyond his control. ''I was lucky it was the middle of the night, or I'd be in jail right now.'' The rifle is one of seven guns he keeps at his apartment.
 The potential for violence is just one of a list of concerns both the military and veterans' groups have for returning soldiers. Combat veterans have been linked to higher incidences of drug and alcohol abuse, domestic violence, depression and unemployment. Having learned from its failure to treat traumatized Vietnam War soldiers 30 years ago, the military has dispatched ''combat stress teams'' to Iraq to offer counseling and in some cases dispense antianxiety meds to suffering soldiers. It may be impossible, however, to fully counteract the shock of going from a 24-hour state of generalized fear-apprehension-paranoia, sustained for a year through wartime, to evenings at home on the La-Z-Boy, asked to fulfill the requirements of love and tenderness needed to sustain a family. In a well-publicized string of incidents in 2002, three Special Forces soldiers returned to Fort Bragg, N.C., from Afghanistan and killed their wives in a span of six weeks. All three soldiers committed suicide. 
 It is unclear whether today's veterans will avoid the hardships that yesterday's continue to know. ''It won't be different for these guys than it was for the Vietnam vets,'' says Shad Meshad, the president of the National Veterans Foundation, who has counseled soldiers and veterans for the last three decades. He says that antidepressants and psychologists can only do so much for a hurting soul. ''There's a voice that rings through all these guys who've paid the price to survive war. No matter how much science or technology you have, those memories never leave you.'' Based out of Los Angeles, Meshad operates a hot line for war veterans. Until recently, the calls came from veterans of Vietnam and of Desert Storm, but in late fall the Iraq calls started to come -- not from soldiers but from their families. ''They're saying, 'Johnny came home, and he's angry; he wants a divorce,''' Meshad says. ''It's all the stuff I've heard from other wars.'' 
 What might save some of today's soldiers is their awareness of the struggles of past veterans and of the resources available to them now. Not only are soldiers better educated and slightly older than their forebears in Vietnam; they are more likely to be married and have children -- meaning more people will be directly affected by their ability or inability to recover from war. On the day I met Debra Shrode, Robert's wife, at the hospital at Fort Campbell, she sat quietly holding his hand. There was an uneasy tenderness between the two, and Debra, who is tall and pretty, with wide down-turned eyes, seemed at first reluctant to speak. ''I told you she was shy,'' Robert said, grinning.
 But she did speak. In a hill-country Kentucky drawl, Debra softly described getting the call last June from a commander, telling her that Robert had been hit by a grenade. She described the first time he was able to call her from the Army hospital in Landstuhl, Germany, about four days after the incident. (''He told me he was fine,'' she said. ''I lied through my teeth,'' Robert added.) And then she talked about his homecoming -- about meeting his medevac flight, ''scared to death,'' and first taking in the sight of his scar-ridden face, his weak body and missing arm. She remembered smiling as hard as she could at Robert before stepping out of his line of vision as the medics transferred him to a stretcher and letting herself weep. 
 At home, the awkwardness rarely seemed to lift. When Robert's nightmares drove him to sleep on the couch, Debra lay awake in the bedroom. ''I kept wondering, Is he sleeping down there because he rests better, or is it because he doesn't want to be beside me?'' she said. And while six months after Robert's return their relationship had stabilized somewhat, Debra was still adjusting to what the war has done to her husband. Even as she kept busy going to cosmetology school by day and selling lottery tickets in the evenings, she couldn't help feeling ''left out,'' since Robert seemed to prefer the company of Bricklin and other soldiers to her own. ''I know there's a lot of things he can't talk to me about, that he can talk to his friends about,'' she said, glancing at Robert, who was by now staring quietly at the floor. ''But I'm sitting there thinking, Why can't he talk to me?'' She added that she has become better at living with the distance between them. ''At first, I had thoughts of holding his hand, of wanting to be close with him,'' she said, a quiet resignation in her voice. ''But stuff like that's changed, too.''
 For his part, Robert said that he couldn't get past the memories of Iraq, that his experience there felt unresolved. ''My body's here, but my mind is there,'' he said. Despite the injuries he had suffered, Shrode remained loyal to the war effort. ''We're doing good over there,'' he told me. ''People just don't see it.'' When it came to the future, he felt only confusion, saying, ''I'd like to live out West, but what kind of job could I do?'' He was interested in Wyoming, but remembered that cold weather makes his pain worse. ''One day I'm on the Internet searching for property there, and the next day I'm looking for a condo in Key West.'' He had thought about going to college to study forestry or real estate or to become a teacher, but his limitations always came rushing back. ''I type slow. I write slow. I can't carry heavy things. What am I going to do for work?''
 Anticipating the challenges of receiving compensation and care from the V.A., he had recently joined the Veterans of Foreign Wars. He was also going to sign up with Disabled American Veterans and the American Legion, and just in case, he was going to hire a lawyer. When I asked what his image of a group like the V.F.W. was, Robert said, ''A bunch of old guys from Vietnam sitting around in field jackets, drinking and not talking about it.'' Did he sometimes worry that he, too, might end up as one of those guys? Robert paused for a long, sobering moment. ''Yeah,'' he said finally. ''I do.''
As Christmas approached, Caleb Nall's insomnia had not subsided. He announced to the group that his doctor had heard out all his complaints and then had the gall to suggest he add a warm bath to his routine. ''A warm bath -- c'mon!'' Nall said. 
 Meanwhile, Jeremy Gilbert had consulted his doctor about all the pain medication he was taking. Earlier in the fall, he had started shortening the time between his prescribed doses of Percocet until suddenly he was taking twice what he should. Gilbert, who is studying to apply for a physician's assistant degree and can be aptly professorial, cautioned everyone about Percocet. ''They say it's as addictive as heroin,'' he said. Having recently replaced Percocet with controlled-release OxyContin, Gilbert admitted to having a ''serious physical dependence'' on it, developing a crushing headache every time he tried to skip a dose. ''It gets to where you'll kill somebody because you need that fix,'' he joked.
 ''I'm strung out on Demerol all the time,'' Jenni McKinley piped up. ''I know it's time to take my meds when I start screaming at my kids for little things.''
 She added, ''My doctors are talking about switching me to methadone.'' 
 Gilbert laughed. ''Mine said the same thing.'' 
 Whatever lay ahead for them couldn't be as bad, they figured, as what they went through the first few months following their return from war. Or at least they hoped as much. In an attempt to salve her conscience, McKinley had done some research on the marine who died next to her in Iraq, learning his name and the fact that he had left behind a young wife. She was contemplating calling his family, but eventually decided against it. Meanwhile, she had gained some strength and movement in her injured hand and was feeling better able to enjoy her children. 
 Robert Shrode, meanwhile, has a new prosthetic -- a high-tech beauty complete with realistic-looking fingers -and was out on the air strip on Feb. 1 when the men and women of his unit returned home. At Fort Campbell, the troop rotation is now fully under way, with planes landing almost daily at the base, each one carrying up to 200 soldiers fresh out of Iraq. 
 Shrode says that he has decided against having more of his arm amputated and is now embarking on the series of doctor's exams he needs in order to receive a medical discharge. His aim is to be out of the Army in April. He has also hit upon a new idea for his future: returning to Iraq as a security contractor for a private company. If it all works out, he could be back in the desert by next January -- his wife, he says, is against it.
 Meanwhile, Brent Bricklin's four-year enlistment is up in June. He plans on marrying his girlfriend in Wisconsin, with Shrode as a groomsman, and then he wants to go to college to become a history teacher. Imagining this, he expressed the first bit of military pride I had heard from him. ''I can't wait for the day I say: 'O.K. class, close your books. Today we're going to do Operation Iraqi Freedom. This here is my Purple Heart; here's the Iraqi flag I got off a rooftop in Karbala; these are pictures from Mosul.' How cool will that be?'' But while the dream of this moment kept him going, it also -- he finally admitted -- prevented him from seeking psychological help for the grief and anger he felt in the wake of his time in Iraq. ''I can't have any of that on my record,'' Bricklin told me, as if there were absolutely no choice in the matter. ''I mean, who's going to hire a teacher who has flashbacks?''
At night, in the quiet of their rented farmhouse, Robert Shrode lets Debra pick the shrapnel out of his body. Over the last six months, she's tugged out 15 pieces as they have worked their way to the surface of his skin. She has picked them from his legs, from his neck, his face. Sometimes he will study them, these twisted aluminum chunks that have managed to escape while so many more will forever live inside him. 
 Barely out of her teenage years, Debra Shrode never pictured her life this way. Never imagined the Army would be calling her up and asking her to hand out advice as some kind of expert wife. Yet someone from the Army's Family Readiness Group wanted her to call another wife whose husband had come home injured. She sighs and dials the number. ''I don't know what I can say to make you feel better,'' she says into the phone. ''If he doesn't want to talk, don't take it to heart.'' 
 She adds each new piece of shrapnel to the collection they keep stored in a Tupperware container. For a while, the container sat on their coffee table, but recently Robert moved it into a spare bedroom drawer. 
 If it seems as if he might be moving on, Debra has only to ask, What're you thinking about?
 ''Iraq,'' he'll say. And then the silence falls again. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Shrode in his rented farmhouse. ''Somebody stares at it, I get mad at them,'' Shrode says. ''Somebody looks away, and I get mad at that.''
Jenni McKinley in her two-bedroom apartment. ''I didn't handle war the way I thought I was going to,'' she says.
Caleb Nall, who was injured by a rocket-propelled grenade. When a Dumpster slammed near his apartment, he grabbed a rifle and rushed outside, ready for war.
 The support group for injured soldiers at Fort Campbell is said to be the first of its kind on an Army base. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (77%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; Biographical Information

PERSON: Sara Corbett

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (74%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq; Fort Campbell (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



360 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2538 words

HEADLINE: Simple Life: Pigs, Cows And Thou

BYLINE: By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

DATELINE: NORTH SALEM 

 BODY:
WESTCHESTER County is known more for its McMansions and corporate headquarters than for its fields of corn and soybeans. Indeed, to talk about farmland in Westchester over the past century is to talk about its disappearance in the face of relentless development. And yet farmers still farm in some parts of the county. Consider this: 
 Two high-spirited goats stood with dainty grace on hind hooves one day not long ago to nibble energetically on a leftover holiday wreath hanging from a barn window in Bedford, as 40 free-range Araucana chickens fluffed their feathers and scrabbled for feed on the frozen ground. 
 Emerald green baby spinach, feathery pea greens and lush arugula flourished in a heated greenhouse on an eyeball-freezing cold day in North Salem. Nearby, a mound of compost, filled with animal manure and kitchen waste from a restaurant, steamed in the biting air. 
 Wiccan, a prize show horse, was slowly and gently vacuumed on the same day, part of an elaborate daily grooming offered at the high-touch Heritage Farm in Katonah, a kind of Ritz-Carlton Hotel that accommodates 65 private show horses.
 Two weeks later, a newborn Simmenthal bull calf, still slick, with an umbilical cord dangling from its wet belly, took its first steps in a heated calving stall at Hudson Pines Farm in Pocantico Hills. 
 Yet despite these bucolic scenes, farmland is disappearing quickly. In 1950, for example, there were 664 farms comprising nearly 50,000 acres in Westchester County. Today, that number has dropped to 128 farms with not quite 12,000 acres, according to the New York Agricultural Statistics Service.
 But still, stubbornly, and improbably, Westchester is a place where agricultural pursuits thrive. Many Westchester farmers have the financial resources to run their so-called trophy farms for the pure pleasure of it; others must farm to earn a living. 
 In fact, the number of farms and farmland is actually higher now, in 2004, than it has been since 1987, according to state data. 
 Indeed, a small but passionate vanguard of politically active Westchester farmers is lobbying the county legislature to halt and even reverse the loss of local agriculture. Enthusiastic cheerleaders for Westchester's farms, they say they need to protect farming in Westchester before most of the local farmland is lost forever.
 Saving land for agricultural use, they say, preserves open space at the lowest cost possible, protects the watershed, provides a habitat for birds and wildlife, and offers local agricultural education to residents, some of whom have never touched a cow or picked a pumpkin off the vine. 
 Westchester County Executive Andrew J. Spano approved two proposals in the last few years to protect farmland, including the appointment of a farmland board and the formation of an agricultural district certified by New York State. 
 ''Farming is a deep part of the heritage of the county, and to preserve open spaces we have to make sure it's part of the political process,'' Mr. Spano said. ''It really keeps a lot of our land out of development, which is really what we need.'' 
 The 11-member Agriculture and Farmland Protection Board was set up in 1999 to oversee the preparation of a countywide farmland protection plan, which will be presented to the county legislature and the public in late spring. 
 In 2001, Westchester County also established an agricultural district, a state-sponsored designation which protects members with ''right to farm'' laws that supersede any local ordinances that might conflict with farmers' needs (early-morning mowing, say, or unpleasant odors from animals). Such a district must total at least 500 acres of viable agricultural land, although it doesn't have to be contiguous, according to Diane Miller, an environmental planner at the County Department of Planning. 
 That district now includes 128 farms, with the largest proportion, about half, devoted to the horse business, and nurseries and horticulture as the second most common farm activity, Ms. Miller said.
 About a dozen additional farms have applied to join this year, she said, and there are probably more who have not yet done so. Although there are no economic advantages to being in the district, ''it helps being part of a community and sharing information and having the power that belonging to a group gives you,'' she said. Among the 325 agricultural districts that have been designated in New York State, Westchester's is among the smallest, although it is also one of the most valuable.
 While the average value of an acre of farmland in Westchester was $8,300 in 1997, the value of farmland in Livingston County, a major dairy area southwest of Rochester, was just $1,091, according to the most recent Census of Agriculture. That disparity has most certainly widened substantially since then, according to Stephen Ropel, a state statistician with the National Agricultural Statistics Service in Albany.
 The Agriculture and Farmland Protection Board is a raucous and cheerful group of Westchester farmers, some of them working farmers who earn a living from their land, and others more like landed gentry, whose substantial achievements in the business world help to finance their hobby farms. 
 When the board met last month at Muscoot Farm in Somers, they debated the ways in which they would be most able to persuade the county legislature of the importance of local farms.
 ''We're putting together a farmland protection plan for Westchester County to raise everyone's awareness of the connection between quality of life and farming,'' said Barbara Wilkens, 72, the board's president. 
 The owner of Wilkens Fruit and Fir Farm, a 180-acre family farm in Yorktown that has raised apples, pumpkins and Christmas trees since 1916, Mrs. Wilkens and her family have consistently refused to sell their land to developers -- even though they would have made more money doing so -- because ''it's a real family operation and it provides a whole different atmosphere for the people of Westchester,'' she said.
 Annie Farrell, an organizer of Westchester's agricultural district, said, ''The Hudson Valley was the bread basket for the city, and we're bringing it back.'' With expertise on everything from growing vegetables in hoop houses to breeding cattle, Ms. Farrell is widely acknowledged by most farm people as one of Westchester's most knowledgeable farmers. Ms. Farrell, a Yorktown resident who earns her living as a farming consultant, has also been called ''the Queen of Mesclun,'' for her one-woman campaign to grow, harvest and sell the once-unusual vegetable. Since she began championing mesclun nearly 20 years ago, Ms. Farrell estimated that she has grown and sold more than five tons of the stuff. She also owns a 225-acre dairy farm in Bovina in the Catskills, which her daughter and son-in-law manage for her. 
 Michael Dignelli, 45, a member of the board and co-owner of the 40-acre Heritage Farm in Somers, is an advocate for Westchester's horse business. Westchester's horse industry ranks fourth in income in counties in New York State (after Saratoga, Nassau and Dutchess Counties), with a value of $121 million, according to figures provided by the Department of Agriculture and Markets.
 ''The horse business is very big and very healthy because of the intense connection people have with animals and with the land,'' Mr. Dignelli said. 
 His business, which he owns with his brother, Andre, is quite successful, and although he would not disclose annual revenues, the cost of boarding a horse there is $2,550 a month, he said. 
 Another board member, Peter Kamenstein, 59, owns an Elmsford company that manufactures housewares. But Three Ponds, his 70-acre farm in North Salem, is clearly his true love. He raises Black Angus cattle as breeding stock there, and produces up to 10,000 bales of hay each year, some of which he uses for his own animals and sells the rest. He keeps his own horses there, eight of them, and sponsors a 4-H Club, which keeps one pig, one sheep, one goat and one cow on his property. 
 Mr. Kamenstein is adamant in his belief that his farm does more good for the town of North Salem than any residential development would. He even grew up on a dairy farm in Princeton, N.J., he said. 
 ''In addition to preserving open space, farmland is critical for a developed area like Westchester,'' he said, citing a study that shows that farms actually subsidize residential housing by using fewer local services.
 Another board member is Don Homer, 68, who described himself as ''a Bostonian cowboy'' and is the general farm manager of Hudson Pines Farm, the Rockefeller property in Pocantico Hills. Along with three employees, Mr. Homer works 350 acres there, raising 100 head of Simmental cattle as breeding stock. So far this winter, 34 cows have calved, and another 33 are due any minute. Mr. Homer sold a heifer last month in Denver for $44,000, and is planning a trip to Indiana next month, a trip on which he said he plans to sell about 20 more head. 
 Mr. Homer said that he has sold cattle, semen and frozen cow embryos in 14 countries, including to the former Soviet Union, all from the Westchester farm.
 When Mr. Homer goes to sales in, say, Texas, ''they're amazed that we're only 25 miles from the major New York airports,'' he said. 
 While the Rockefeller family farms flourish because of the family's philanthropic devotion to local farming, other, much smaller farmers, struggle to earn a living from farming.
 Ellen Casale, 54, and Brian Spahr, 40, cultivate 2.5 acres of their 5.5-acre plot in North Salem, on a certified organic farm called Toad Haul, but both work other jobs to support themselves.
 ''For us, this is not a job, it's a way of life,'' Ms. Casale said.
 She and Mr. Spahr grow salad greens in raised beds, outside and in greenhouses. This year, they harvested more than two tons of salad greens, including arugula, mizuna and tatsoi. 
 ''Every leaf is a work of art,'' she said. ''Food should be beautiful.''
 Ms. Casale keeps a dozen chickens and rabbits on her farm just for their nitrogen-rich manure, which she adds to the compost that covers all the growing beds.
 She will not sell her gorgeous and intensely flavorful greens to restaurants in New York City, however. Instead, she sells to the Flying Pig, Finch Tavern and other local restaurants, as well as to local catering companies and at the Mount Kisco farmers' market. She says she also has 25 private clients to whom she makes produce deliveries at home. 
 ''Our mission is to stay as local as possible,'' she said. ''Buying organic is important, but buying local organic is the best thing you can do. The community we live in must benefit first.''
 By contrast, the Westchester agricultural district features many gentleman farmers.
 Shirley and George Bianco, for example, live in Bedford on the 30-acre Maple Grove Farm, which was a 500-acre farm in 1740, Mrs. Bianco said. They keep five rare Belted Galloway cows, four sheep, two rambunctious goats, a pig, 40 Araucana chickens, 20 quail and 8 horses, and have sold 700 cartons of half-dozen eggs, and two breeding bulls in the last year. 
 A retired currency trader, Mrs. Bianco, 45, is passionate about her love of the land and of learning to farm properly. ''Our goal is to supply humanely raised animals for food,'' she said. Mr. Bianco, 48, a vice president at Merrill Lynch, is vice chairman of the Westchester Land Trust, who has practiced what he preaches by placing a legal restriction on his own property to prevent it from being subdivided, he said.
 ''On this scale, I'm not going to quit my day job,'' he said about his farm, ''but we want to keep the farm as productive land.'' 
 A patrician farmer with perhaps the deepest roots in Westchester County, Jim Wood, 76, lives in Bedford on Braewold, a 40-acre farm that has been in his family for seven generations. President of the Bedford Farmers Club, Mr. Wood's ancestor was among the founding members in 1852. Although Mr. Wood no longer works his farm, he raised dairy and beef cattle when his two daughters were growing up, to pass on his love of farming.
 ''I was an investment banker to support my farming,'' Mr. Wood said. ''One kept me sane while the other kept me solvent.'' Mr. Wood did such a good job instilling a farming passion in his daughters that one is now ranching in Montana, and the other moved to New Zealand, where she and her husband bought a 7,000-acre sheep station.
 ''Instead of preserving history, which we were doing in Westchester, we are now involved with cutting-edge advances in New Zealand agriculture,'' Mr. Wood's daughter, Emily Crofoot, said in an e-mail message.
 Ms. Farrell, who left last week to visit Ms. Crofoot's farm in New Zealand, plans to search for new blood lines for Westchester cattle, ''collecting genetics,'' as she puts it.
 ''Most women bring back jewelry, but I bring back semen,'' she said. ''When you reach in my freezer, be careful what you grab.'' 

A Warm Berth for Newest Foals
GRANITE SPRINGS
 It's a little-known fact, but dozens of 100-pound babies will be born in Westchester this winter.
 Of course, their mothers weigh in at around half a ton, and the infants aren't human, but still, they are soft and deliciously smelly.
 Some of these whopping newborns will be born at Stonewall Farm, the 760-acre thoroughbred horse farm owned by Barry Schwartz, chairman of the New York Racing Association and a former owner of Calvin Klein Inc. 
 The first foal of the 26 that are due in 2004 arrived on a glacial evening in mid-January, almost two weeks past the mare's due date. But Jennifer M. Gurney, the farm manager and de facto midwife, was not worried. ''It has to do with the cold,'' she said. ''It's their natural instinct that it's not the safest time to have a baby.'' 
 In her nine years at the farm, Mrs. Gurney has witnessed at least 200 foalings, she said. 
 In this clean but chilly brood barn, a fancy maternity ward for valuable horses, two kerosene heaters glowed and 18 mothers-to-be lolled in their stalls on that cold evening, enjoying the good life of a pregnant former racehorse. 
 The first to give birth was Lynclar, a dark bay who won nearly half a million dollars in her racing days. Now on her fourth foaling, she was calm and attentive to her new filly, a soft, damp and shivering creature born at 5:50 p.m. on Jan. 25.
 The still-steaming foal struggled to stand on her own spindly legs, in a foaling stall with rubber matting and a thick layer of protective straw. 
 As Lynclar nickered to her newborn, several pregnant mares whinnied back, in sympathy, or support, perhaps. ''They're the fan club, they're always whinnying after a baby is born,'' Mrs. Gurney said. 
 The young filly was wrapped in a blanket after she stood, as her mother looked on.
 Most foalings at Stonewall are a family affair for Mrs. Gurney. Besides her, there are her husband, Cameron, a tennis pro at Sleepy Hollow Country Club, and their 5-year-old daughter, Ava, who gave the new foal its temporary name, Minnie. Even their dog, Olivia, attended the birth. 
 Although Mr. Gurney has also seen hundreds of foalings, he is not jaded.
 ''It's always amazing every time,'' he said. ''It never gets routine.'' Carin Rubenstein


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Kamenstein, owner of Three Ponds, a 70-acre farm in North Salem, raises Black Angus cattle as breeding stock there. At Maple Grove Farm in Bedford, chickens, horses and sheep find a place of their own on the 30-acre spread. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
At Heritage Farm in Somers, Diane Mazzola, an exercise rider, walks Junior Mint through stables to a ring for some exercise.
Ellen Casale and Brian Spahr cultivate 2.5 acres on their certified organic farm called Toad Haul in North Salem. The eggs in the basket, insert, are from Toad Haul Farm. Shirley Bianco lives in Bedford on her 30-acre Maple Grove Farm. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
 Mare watches over foal born at Stonewall Farm. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); HORSES (77%); ANIMALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BIRDS (70%); LOBBYING (66%); STATISTICS (64%); APPOINTMENTS (62%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (60%); WITCHCRAFT (53%) Agriculture; Industry Profiles; Agriculture

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

PERSON: Carin Rubenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



361 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: The Role of Greed As an Economic Drag

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''The Weight of the World on Our Shoulders'' (On the Contrary, Feb. 1) described how most of the world struggles to achieve reliably growing economies like that of the United States. 
 Not mentioned, however, was the role of fraud, cronyism, theft, bribery and the many other embodiments of greed from which countries suffer. These factors must be a drag on various countries' economies, and can cause reluctance to invest in these nations.
 Without the American culture of a strong legal system and effective prosecutions, we would be in the same mess. We must cheer on the efforts of American regulators, prosecutors, and judges to shackle the big players who are daily taking billions from our economy -- that is, from our pockets. 
 Raising the odds of these megabarons being caught would be a great investment toward ''building value,'' a concept the barons themselves regularly espouse.

John Cowley
Boulder, Colo., Feb. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); ETHICS (86%); DEREGULATION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); TRENDS (72%); BRIBERY (71%); JUDGES (53%) United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: john cowley

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



362 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; WORTH NOTING

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Sprague Looking to Bring L.P.G.A. Event to Town

BYLINE: By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

 BODY:
Golf lovers in eastern Connecticut will know by the end of the month whether they can look forward to a local Ladies Professional Golf Association tournament in October.
 Members of the Eastern Connecticut Chamber of Commerce and officials from a North Carolina sports marketing firm that would operate the event said that within the next three weeks they must find a title sponsor to provide at least $1 million in order to play host to a tournament this fall at Pautipaug Country Club in Sprague. 
 The L.P.G.A. completes its 2004 tournament schedule by March 1. 
 ''It will happen, but maybe not for '04,'' David Pugliese, a member of the Chamber of Commerce's board of directors, said. ''But it will definitely happen for '05.''
 Mr. Pugliese said he and other chamber members had already raised $1 million in local sponsorships for the event.
 Bill Futterer, the managing member of the sports marketing firm PSE-3 in Raleigh, N.C., said there were eight to 10 prospects for title sponsors. He said he was uncertain whether any of them could make such a large financial commitment quickly enough to ensure a tournament for this year, however. 
 Mark O'Neil, who manages Pautipaug Country Club for the Essex Golf Group, said a professional women's tournament would be a major economic advantage for the club and region.
 ''Pautipaug is a hidden gem,'' he said of the private club situated in a tiny community north of Norwich. ''This is a super opportunity to showcase the club and the area.''
 Mr. Pugliese said the tournament would last three or four days, be nationally televised and involve 130 to 140 players. Similar tournaments provide a $7 million to $10 million economic increase for their regions, he said.
 ''There are hundreds of participants before you even get to the spectators,'' he said. ''We are very excited. It will definitely put this region on the map.'' GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); SPORTS FANS (79%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%) Golf

ORGANIZATION: LADIES PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION (91%) Ladies Professional Golf Assn; Pautipaug Country Club (Sprague, Conn)

PERSON: Gail Braccidiferro

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Sprague (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



363 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-15-04: THE ETHICIST

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Ball in Play

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
I own a team-autographed baseball from an obscure summer league. One signer is a player in the Baseball Hall of Fame. I could donate the ball to the hall, the player, the player's major league team or a historical society. Or I could sell it; it may be of substantial value. I am torn between economic self-interest and sharing what may be a unique artifact. How should I dispose of the ball? A.O., Montpelier, VT.
 I agree that artifacts of genuine historic or cultural significance should be available to the public and to scholars, not hidden away in private collections. I don't think this autographed baseball -- or, for that matter, any autographed baseball -- is such a resource. 
 The personal library of Abraham Lincoln, its books and papers marked by his hand, can give us genuine insight into that great man. Those homely objects in the vitrines at Ellis Island, modest belongings our forebears carried with them to start a new life, say something profound and moving about our past and about ourselves. But Fonzie's jacket and Archie Bunker's chair on display at the Smithsonian do not tell us much of anything: they offer nostalgia, not illumination.
 Your keepsake falls into this class of thing. One baseball is much like another. And while yours has symbolic value, it is indistinguishable from every other ball, save for its having been touched by the gods of the game. It is not so much a significant historic object as a fetish. Evocative? Perhaps. Edifying? Unlikely. And thus you are free to sell it to anyone willing to pony up the cash -- a wealthy individual who shares your enthusiasm or a well-endowed baseball organization.
 Your zeal for the game might lead you to proffer this ball to any of those you've mentioned, perhaps beginning with the Hall of Fame. And since the lords of baseball tend mostly to be fabulously wealthy (made all the wealthier by having their teams mostly play in publicly financed stadiums), I don't see why the hall shouldn't be able to offer you a tidy sum if this ball is deemed worthy to rest among all those other balls.
 I am an Episcopal priest. My diocese permits priests ordained by our previous bishop to bless same-sex unions, as was that bishop's policy, but it does not allow more recently ordained priests like me to do so. 
 I welcome homosexual people in my church, and I wish I could do more to include them. Restricted as I am, how can I best -- and ethically -- serve my parishioners? Anonymous
 Certainly not by resigning, if that is the implication of your question. You need not endorse every doctrine of the church to participate in it honorably. While there are practices so odious and organizations so impervious to reform that one would be ethically obliged to leave them, that is not your situation. Indeed, your gay parishioners have chosen to remain, and your church is in the midst of much debate and some change on these issues.
 Your task is to make your gay parishioners feel welcome in your congregation, encouraging them to become involved in all aspects of church life, from the choir to the vestry. And you can speak out from the pulpit to ensure that everyone understands your bishop's policies and your feelings about them. 
 (If a religious leader can't speak from conscience, who can?) In addition, you can work for reforms within the church and urge your parishioners to do likewise.
 Lastly, when a same-sex couple is eager to have their union blessed, you can bring in an older priest, one ordained by your previous bishop, and have him perform that happy task. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (84%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ETHICS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); HISTORY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%) Baseball; Autographs; Episcopal Church; Marriages; Homosexuality

PERSON: Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (57%) VERMONT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



364 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; Executive Life

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Your Next Boss Could Be a Temp

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

 BODY:
THERE are few temporary workers among the ranks of senior executives. But as companies run leaner, and seasoned but unemployed managers continue to search for new jobs, that is starting to change. 
 Small but growing numbers of executives are building careers as itinerant managers, moving from one senior-level assignment to the next. Sometimes the jobs last for just a few months, but the pay often exceeds what an executive could earn in a comparable period at a permanent job. 
 For some executives, interim assignments offer relief, however brief, from unemployment. For a few, like John S. Reed, the former co-chairman of Citigroup who is now the interim chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, the assignments offer a chance to help an organization they care about. But for others, life as an itinerant executive provides flexibility, variety and a chance to use skills that may otherwise atrophy. Companies find that these executives can fill gaps quickly and often bring fresh solutions to longstanding problems.
 Companies' use of short-term executives ''opens up a lot of doors for people who are senior who have talent, wisdom and know-how that companies don't want to hire on a permanent basis,'' said John A. Thompson, author of ''The Portable Executive'' (Simon & Schuster, 1995).
 Companies that place executives in short-term assignments say business is increasing sharply. ''There's a lot of nascent demand out there,'' said Stephen Giusto, executive vice president for corporate development and the chief financial officer of Resources Connection, a firm in Costa Mesa, Calif., that finds candidates for interim executive jobs.
 Last year the company, spun off from Deloitte & Touche, had a 30 percent increase in the number of executives placed with clients, he said. Spherion, a recruitment and outsourcing firm in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., said requests for interim executives increased 12 percent from 2002 to 2003. 
 Paul Cattermole, 57, has been living the peripatetic life for several years. After working in interim jobs in Boston for nearly a decade, he moved to Boulder, Colo., in 2002. Now Mr. Cattermole, a certified public accountant with a master's degree in business administration, is the interim chief financial officer of two companies: Teknovation, a digital video security products company, and Confio, a company that monitors database performance. He is also a consultant to Boomerang Inc., which makes automotive accessories. 
 Mr. Cattermole says he meets weekly with the chief executives of the companies and sends e-mail to them three to five times a week. He is guiding Teknovation and Confio through rounds of financing. For Boomerang, he is streamlining the inventory tracking process. 
 He and other interim executives who were interviewed declined to discuss their compensation. But Randy Cochran, a former managing partner for interim practices, North America, at Heidrick & Struggles, the executive search company, said he used this rule of thumb: companies can expect to pay an interim executive 1 percent of the annual salary for the position per day, with a full salary being paid out in about four to five months. The interim executive's compensation typically does not include benefits and pension costs.
 Some itinerant executives align themselves with agencies. One is Julie White, 53, who formerly worked at J.Walter Thompson as an account executive and as director of advertising at Sallie Mae. She became an interim executive eight years ago to gain more control over her schedule and child-care arrangements, and has worked on seven or eight projects, she said. They have lasted from three weeks to 14 months. 
 While insulated from corporate politics, Ms. White says she is not totally immune. On one assignment, she looked for an advertising agency to promote a series of Internet newsletters published by her employer. She recommended that the agency provide the copy. The proposal got a frosty reception from the vice president for marketing, who had been the copywriter, she said. 
 Another interim executive, Jeffrey DiRubio, 58, says he avoids surprises by evaluating a potential employer before signing up. He recently completed a nine-month assignment outside London as interim vice president for worldwide sales and marketing at the AIT Group, a software company. Before starting, he spent 30 days on site, he said, asking questions like ''How do you sell the benefit of your product to your customers?'' 
 BEFORE becoming involved with AIT, Mr. DiRubio studied on his own the deals of Bessemer Venture Partners, an affiliate of the Bessemer Securities Corporation, the private investment firm, meeting periodically with several partners and associates there. When some partners invested in AIT, Mr. DiRubio, a former I.B.M. salesman who once had his own start-up, told them he could help.
 The Bessemer Venture investors recommended him to AIT to perform a sales assessment, and when it became clear that an interim vice president for sales would be needed, he stepped in.
 Some executives find that interim jobs become permanent. In January 2002, Brian Sobelman, 52, was hired for an interim assignment at New Weathervane Retail, a New Britain, Conn., retailer of teenage girls' clothing. He has never left.
 There were hitches. Early on, he had to tell five merchandise planners that a report tracking sales, inventory and turnover that was already three months late would not be ready for two more months, but he placated them by providing weekly status reports. He also sought out the company president, asking, ''Am I on the right track?'' After 60 days, the two went to lunch and he was hired permanently as the director of information technology.
 Some experts expect interim executives to become more common. Robert E. Mittelstaedt, vice dean for executive education at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, predicted that their ranks would be swelled by baby boomers nearing retirement who want to work as much for stimulation as for money. And many companies, he added, ''are still trying to keep their costs down and prefer to have to pay someone on a temporary basis.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey DiRubio analyzed the business practices of AIT Group, a software company, before agreeing to a temporary management position. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (68%); ACCOUNTING (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (81%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: Amy Zipkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%) COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



365 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; MARKET INSIGHT

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Challenges For Comcast, Before or After a Deal

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
THE Comcast Corporation has offered more than $50 billion for the Walt Disney Company. If Comcast is successful, it would become the world's biggest media company. Tom Wolzien, a media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, talked last week about the offer. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 
Q. If Comcast bought Disney, would it be able to rein in the monthly prices of the programming provided to cable subscribers?
 Let's look at ESPN. Subscriber fees are between $2 and $2.50, which are payable to Disney. If you went back 10 years, the fee was probably $1. A good piece of the money is flowing into sports rights, which means it ultimately flows through to the leagues, the teams and the players. 

Q. Could Comcast's management run a combined enterprise efficiently?

A. As a cable company, Comcast is terrifically managed. They did a brilliant job of putting together the assets of AT&T with their own businesses.
 But Disney, which has studios, cable networks and is into things like consumer licensing and real estate, is in radically different businesses. 
 Comcast has made it clear they don't like the management at Disney, which raises the issue of management depth at Comcast. It is hard to see how the top three or four layers of management at Disney are going to hang around if people think this deal is going to close. In addition, the longer a deal takes to close, the more the company being acquired starts to run on autopilot. 

Q. Would regulators object to a combination between Comcast and Disney?

A. The political environment in Washington is such that there is very significant concern about media consolidation, and in this particular case you are talking about one entity owning one of the best television networks and a cable monopoly in the markets the cable company is operating in.
 Comcast has big concentrations of subscribers in 24 of the top 26 markets in the country, and those 26 markets cover half the population. Conceivably, it could be able to suck money out of the local broadcast market from other television stations in that market by bundling the television station with the cable networks that they own. 
 So, even if these guys reach a deal, it could take a long time to occur. And if a Democrat becomes president, the makeup of the Federal Communications Commission changes as well. 

Q. What do you think Disney is likely to do about the Comcast bid?

A. It seems to me they have three or four options. First, they can say the price Comcast is offering is not high enough, which is true.
 While they are waiting, they could look for a white knight, who would structure a deal more to their liking.
 Or, they could bulk themselves up by buying somebody else. There are three approaches in this scenario: buy a distribution company like an EchoStar, a like-type broadcasting company like Clear Channel Communications or do a real estate deal with a big hotel company like Starwood. 
 The fourth possibility is that they could make the case that the regulatory issues are scary, and that as a consequence they choose to remain independent. Disney could get away with that for a while, but if the bid gets high enough it would be hard to stick with that argument. 

Q. Disney's stock did well last year. What sort of shape is the company in now?

A. The quarter they reported last week was spectacular. They blew everybody away. It was a great job.
 But the reason the stock ran up substantially in 2003 was in anticipation of this kind of performance. Today, the issue is what reason do we have to anticipate improvement in 2005 and 2006, particularly without Pixar Animation and with the results of negotiations with cable companies, including Comcast, about the rates ESPN will charge. I have a market perform recommendation on the stock.

Q. Are media and entertainment still growth industries?

A. The real growth story is almost over.

At some point these will become mature companies that will be run that way. Money no longer goes into acquisitions, because there won't be anybody big left to buy.
 Going forward, think of these companies as consumer cyclical stocks. It doesn't mean you can't see nice growth as the economy grows and advertising picks up, but the consolidation phase and the benefits you see from it are over. 

Q. How do you handicap the outcome of Comcast versus Disney?

A. The chances are 50-50 that Comcast wins. And I think the odds are 75-25 that a year from now Disney is either with somebody else that buys them or that they have bought somebody else.


A. Owning a television network, a movie studio and cable channels like ESPN doesn't mean that Comcast would have better control over the costs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Wolzien 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); COMCAST CORP (94%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Bernstein, Sanford C & Co; Comcast Corp

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (94%); CCV (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (91%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

PERSON: Kenneth N Gilpin; Tom Wolzien

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



366 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2505 words

HEADLINE: Reach Out and Upend an Industry

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
JEFFREY A. CITRON, the man who hopes to turn the telephone industry on its ear, works in a cubicle just down the hall from the ''Tony Soprano'' conference room. Nearby are the ''Meadow'' and ''Uncle Jr.'' rooms, though if those are full, Mr. Citron's staff could gather in ''Dr. Melfi.''
 The conference rooms at Vonage, an Internet telephone start-up in Edison, N.J., where Mr. Citron is chief executive, are named for characters from ''The Sopranos.'' That hints at Mr. Citron's embrace of the unconventional, a trait that has made him a danger to some of America's most entrenched industries, but also at times to himself.
 In the 1990's, he helped to pioneer computerized day-trading, putting a thumb in the eye of Wall Street's biggest companies. He amassed a fortune but wound up leaving the industry after he was charged with illegal trading by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Though admitting no wrongdoing, he agreed to pay a $22.5 million fine and was banned from the securities business. 
 Mr. Citron, the Sequel, is no less ambitious. Already one of the nation's wealthiest 30-somethings, he aims to use Vonage's Internet technology to bring fundamental change to the telephone industry, one of the most entrenched and tradition-bound economic sectors. ''I'm going to change the world,'' Mr. Citron, 33, said in an interview last month over lunch at the New York Palace Hotel. ''I did it before. Why not again?''
 There are plenty of reasons. Mr. Citron's own investors acknowledge that Vonage may be zapped out of existence if it somehow misfires, its customer care problems persist, major rivals provide better service or regulators take steps like insisting that Internet phone companies pay the same fees as the rest of the industry.
 Yet even skeptics credit Mr. Citron with helping to create an inflection point in the telephone industry by turning Internet telephony -- which had long been just a great-sounding theory -- into a viable product line.
 IN a little more than a year, he has signed up 100,000 customers who use his black box to connect their traditional telephone to the Internet. Customers pay a flat fee of around $35 for unlimited local and long-distance phone service, though that figure does not include the more than $40 a month that subscribers must also spend for the high-speed Internet access used to transmit the calls.
 Industry analysts say Mr. Citron's success has hastened development of the technology by major telephone and cable companies, which are clearly following his lead. AT&T and Time Warner Cable, for instance, have recently announced their own voice-over-Internet strategies; Verizon, Qwest, Cox Cable and others have said they intend to deploy the technology, too.
 Their efforts come not only in response to Vonage, but in the larger context of the upheaval in telecommunications. Since the deregulation of Ma Bell, a simmer of competition has turned into a boil. Companies deploying many technologies, from cable to wireless, are vying to create voice infrastructure that they hope will enable them to generate and capture billions of dollars in fees from subscribers.
 So Vonage faces competition not just from big telecommunications companies but also from start-ups even tinier than itself. One of them, Skype, makes free software that lets people talk directly over computers -- like a voice version of instant messaging -- thus bypassing the telephone altogether. Another start-up, Net2Phone, offers Internet phone service directly to consumers (as does Vonage) and works with cable operators to help sell phone service over their lines. 
 Facing off against them all is a man who, by many accounts, is a study in extreme capitalism, not Harvard Business School niceties. Mr. Citron is not about polite cocktail conversation and low-carb diets; he leans more toward rolled-up sleeves, gut decisions and fast food. At the recent lunch at the Palace hotel, he ordered the salade nicoise, but mispronounced it nih-KO-see.
 In other words, he is not the kind of guy who asks for permission slips. Just as he barreled into Wall Street seven years ago, breaking china along the way, he is now barging into the telecom fray. In doing so, he has put himself in position for a great entrepreneurial comeback. 
 ''He's out for redemption; he wants to prove he can do this, and do this properly,'' said Harry R. Weller, a partner at New Enterprise Associates, a venture capital firm that invested $12 million last year in Vonage. After Mr. Weller's firm conducted extensive due diligence on Mr. Citron, it decided to forge ahead with the investment, despite what Mr. Weller described as the significant risk inherent in the technology and the man behind it.
 That investment was followed last week by a $40 million round of financing from two other venture firms: 3i Group, based in London, and Meritech Capital Partners, based in Palo Alto, Calif. As part of the deal, the investors have structured the board so that Mr. Citron does not have control over it -- in part, Mr. Weller said, to make sure that Mr. Citron is kept within bounds.
 Still, Mr. Weller said investors were convinced that it takes a personality like Mr. Citron's to shake the foundations of the telephone industry.
 ''You need somebody who knows how to disrupt an industry,'' he said. ''You need to have a very, very aggressive entrepreneur. What we have to make sure to do is to take the best of Jeffrey Citron.''
 Mr. Citron grew up on Staten Island; his parents worked in the insurance business. As a boy, he says he did not know where his interests lay so much as where they did not: in school. He often skipped class, keeping mostly to himself, but he said he scored well enough on tests to offset his absences.
 He made a quick transition from high school to Wall Street. In 1988, at the age of 17, he joined Datek Securities, where his father had close connections. By 20, he had made his first million as a trader. 
 Mr. Citron left Datek in 1991 to start his own firm, where, with a computer whiz named Josh Levine, he built the foundation of a computer-trading network called Island. It let individual traders swap shares inside the system -- without help from the big Wall Street firms. 
 ''Island was truly revolutionary,'' said Bill Burnham, who was an analyst at Piper Jaffray during the dot-com boom and is now a venture capitalist at Softbank Capital Partners. ''It allowed individual investors to get direct access to the market to compete and get the same advantages that professional market makers do.''
 Mr. Citron returned to Datek Securities to create and become chief executive of Datek Online Holdings. Its technology allowed individuals to make their own trades automatically for $9.99, far less than the fees charged by full-service brokers. Datek Online became the nation's fourth-largest online trading firm.
 But to regulators, Mr. Citron and his associates were involved in something far less upstanding. The Securities and Exchange Commission contended that from 1993 to 1998, he and others were involved in a scheme to use automated trading systems to manipulate Nasdaq, exploit loopholes and make millions of dollars.
 In October 1999, amid the scrutiny, Mr. Citron agreed to resign as chief executive of Datek Online. The investigations into Mr. Citron and his associates led to the agreement in January 2003 in which seven former executives and traders at Datek paid a total of $70 million in fines. Regulators said they had created fictitious customer accounts, used them to place their own trades and filed false reports.
 The $22.5 million fine Mr. Citron paid -- one of the largest in S.E.C. history -- only dented his wealth. In 2000, he sold his stake in Datek to private investors for $225 million. Today he lives in a mansion in Brielle, N.J., with his wife and two children. 
 But wealth isn't everything. There is also reputation. And Mr. Citron says he wants his back. What happened at Datek ''was 100 percent about being young,'' he said. 
 ''We were young, we were naive, we were inexperienced, and, yes, there were backroom dealings,'' he added. ''But that is part of a lot of industries. This time, we are doing it differently.'' ''This time'' began with a helicopter ride. Mr. Citron flew from New Jersey to Melville on Long Island in the summer of 2000 to meet with Jeffrey Pulver and the other principals of a company called Min-X.com. Min-X was trying to create a market where companies could trade excess phone network capacity in blocks of minutes, in much the same way commodities like oil are traded. The principals approached Mr. Citron for financing.
 He invested what he calls a ''significant portion'' of the $12 million raised in that first round of financing. But it was far from an arm's-length transaction. He took an active role in the company, immediately replacing Mr. Pulver as chief executive and then changing the concept for the business. Mr. Citron said that it was while flying from California to New Jersey in December 2000 that he decided to focus the company on offering Internet-based telephone calls, transforming it into Vonage.
 THE quick decision jibes with his overall philosophy that a good business idea does not require endless analysis. ''If you can't figure it out in four months, you shouldn't do it,'' he said. ''If you can't figure it out in a week, you shouldn't do it.''
 The concept of Internet-based calling was not new. It generated much buzz during the dot-com boom and was being pushed heavily by technology companies like Cisco Systems, which wanted to sell equipment that would be used to route calls as data.
 The basic idea is to transmit telephone with the same technology used to handle e-mail and other Internet traffic. Calls are digitized and delivered as packets of data, rather than as traditional voice signals.
 That may sound simple, but the reality was much more complex, particularly because the existing telecommunications giants had spent a century investing in a different type of technology, called circuit switch. 
 Mr. Citron was hardly the first person to understand that Internet calls were potentially less expensive than those made using circuit switch -- for a variety of reasons. With circuit switch technology, a telephone line is dedicated to a single conversation. But when the packets are sent as data, that line can send many signals at once, making far more efficient use of the telecommunications infrastructure. In addition, Internet equipment is less expensive and gives operators and consumers more control over voice traffic -- for instance, allowing people to get an e-mail reminder each time they receive a voice mail message.
 But for all the advantages, and the hype, no one had figured out the basics: how to affordably hook a traditional phone into the Internet, then send a voice stream directly to another telephone. Mr. Citron and a small team spent the first half of 2001 working to solve the problem.
 Louis Holder, a co-founder of Min-X who is now in charge of product development at Vonage, said it was a time of voracious fast-food consumption (''Everybody put on 10 pounds'') and exhilaration. ''Nobody had done this in the consumer space,'' he said.
 The breakthrough came late on a Thursday night in June. Mr. Holder said he, Mr. Citron and two engineers figured out how to send a digitized call from one telephone to another through a firewall, a defense barrier between a computer or network and the wider Internet.
 Initially, the company wanted to create partnerships with cable companies to help them in their assault on traditional telephone companies. But there was skepticism. Vonage was regarded by some executives as a leftover from the bubble. Besides, the cable companies were having their own problems, punctuated by the bankruptcy of @Home, which delivered Internet access over cable.
 So in April 2002, Vonage started a consumer-based service. Secretly, the company hoped that if cable companies saw that Vonage was successful, they would consider signing partnerships, Mr. Holder said. But then Vonage took on a life of its own. Within 18 months, it has amassed 100,000 customers, and Mr. Holder said the company expects to have 250,000 by the end of this year, and 500,000 by the end of 2005. Vonage says it will be profitable this year.
 Blair Levin, former chief of staff to Reed E. Hundt, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission during the Clinton administration, said that Vonage had proved that Internet calling could be done, and that it was forcing a giant industry to follow more quickly than it might have otherwise. ''It's going to have a huge historical impact,'' Mr. Levin said. ''Vonage was a match that was put on some pretty dry timber. But it was a match.''
 But Mr. Levin, like many others, said he wondered whether Vonage would be a historical footnote or a viable concern. ''The question is: What is their defensible asset?'' he said, noting that other companies can provide the same kind of service as Vonage, but with the added benefit of having well-known brand names and deep pockets. ''They're playing in a world in which, traditionally, economies of scale and scope matter a huge amount.''
 An executive at a major telephone company, who requested anonymity, said Vonage was not seen as real competition. And the cable companies, which are vying to use their high-speed lines to deliver phone service, say they can do it far better than Vonage. Cox Communications, based in Atlanta, says that its version of Internet-based calling is more stable than Vonage's because it operates the data network, giving it more control. Even Mr. Citron conceded that this was a possibility. ''Clearly, there might be some advantages,'' he said of the cable industry.
 INDEED, Vonage acknowledges that it has two overriding challenges. One is the quality of calls made over its network. Customers often complain of having their calls dropped, or of hearing lags. Mr. Holder says that this happens because the high-speed Internet access in subscribers' homes can be spotty, and that when the lines falter, so does the call quality.
 A related problem, Mr. Holder said, is insufficient customer service. The company is scrambling to hire and train qualified people to answer customer concerns. Vonage has 70 customer service employees and would like to have 110, he said.
 Another major challenge is regulatory. So far, Vonage has been able to keep its costs low because it has been able to avoid the regulations that federal and state governments place on traditional telephone companies. But that may change: The F.C.C. said last Thursday that it intends to study the question of regulating Internet calling over the next year. 
 Mr. Citron said he hoped regulators would make the rules clear. He also said he did not intend to get into any gray areas, as he did in his first incarnation as a disruptive entrepreneur. But, in one way, he would like to see a similar outcome.
 Internet calling, he said, ''will be a large and transforming event.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey A. Citron, chief executive of Vonage, at its data center in Edison, N.J. The company offers inexpensive voice calls through high-speed Internet connections. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Vonage converts voice calls into bits of data. Gene Gershanok and other engineers monitor the network at Vonage's headquarters in Edison, N.J. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Speaking In Ones And Zeros''Share of U.S. residential Internet phone subscribers (local and long-distance service using Internet protocol).(As of end of 2003)Vonage: 78%Time Warner Cable: 8%Cablevision: 6%Packet 8: 3%Other: 5%(Source by the Yankee Group)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (85%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (55%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Biographical Information; Computers and the Internet; Television; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (85%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Vonage

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (85%); TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel; Jeffrey A Citron

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



367 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; Business

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Companies Hope Profits Run From Clean Water

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
MILLIONS have been made by turning water into a designer product and putting it in attractive bottles aimed at the hip and health-conscious. But those who see money when they look at water are now far more intrigued by two areas of the business that are less sexy, but potentially far more lucrative: providing clean water for industrial and municipal use, and cleaning dirty water when that use is done. 
 Small wonder. According to Kerry Stirton, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, industrial water treatment alone is a $35 billion global market. When municipal treatment systems and other water processes are factored in, he said, water-related revenue may even top $100 billion. 
 In fact, demand for clean water continues to surge ahead of supply, particularly in developing nations. ''Water scarcities still loom,'' said William J. Roe, the chief operating officer of the Nalco Company, which is based in Naperville, Ill., and is a big player in the water treatment business. ''I don't think it's Orwellian to suggest that future wars may be fought over water instead of oil.'' 
 Perhaps not surprisingly, the potential profits have attracted industrial behemoths. General Electric has been building up its water business even as it has played down other industrial lines. Pentair, a company based in Golden Valley, Minn., that had been putting equal emphasis on its lines of tools and water products, just announced that it would acquire Wicor Industries, another water products specialist, and would probably shed tools altogether.
 ''People think water is easy to relate to: you flush it; you shower in it; you drink it,'' said Andrew D. Seidel, the chief executive of USFilter, the water treatment company based in Palm Desert, Calif. ''In fact, this is a complex business with 100,000 players providing all kinds of services and products.''
 Indeed it is. Water companies provide the chemicals that purify water used to make computer chips -- water too pure for ordinary humans' needs because it would leach calcium, zinc and other vital minerals out of the body. They sell the additives that keep factory pipes safe from corrosion when water cools them down or heats them up, and that make saltwater as sweet as liquid from freshwater streams.
 They ensure that Coke or Starbucks coffee tastes pretty much the same, no matter where you order it. They enable refineries to turn cheap, highly acidic crude oil into high-grade gasoline. Lately, they are even helping hotels, hospitals and apartment buildings keep micro-organisms like the ones that cause Legionnaires' disease from circulating through plumbing and climate control systems.
 ''Auto companies want paint to stick. Power plants want to run boilers at higher pressure. Soda companies want global consistency. Everyone wants lower waste disposal costs,'' said George R. Oliver, vice president of GE Infrastructure Water Technologies. ''Of course water is a growth business.''
 If you still think the emphasis on water chemistry is overblown, confront the chamber of horrors on display in the lobby of GE Infrastructure's main water-research lab in Trevose, Pa. It holds a glassed-in graveyard of corroded pipes, split joints and other industrial casualties, all results of bad water flowing through manufacturing processes, cooling systems and the like. 
 In the bowels of the building, researchers are seeking ways to vaccinate industrial equipment against just such diseases. ''We don't want to just amputate corroded joints; we want to prevent the gangrene,'' said Vivek Jain, a quality engineer.
 The medical metaphor is no coincidence. G.E.'s water researchers are using imaging technology borrowed from GE Medical Systems to check water's impact on various pieces and parts. And they hope to use similar technology soon in remote monitoring systems that will diagnose a chemical imbalance in a customer's water stream or looming corrosion problems in its pipes, before the problems wreak havoc. 
 It is a chemistry business today, but remote monitoring is down the road, said Colin R. Sabol, general manager for global marketing at the G.E. water unit.
 For now, the G.E. engineers have their hands full with the chemistry. In one room, researchers are torturing aluminum wheels, first scratching them, then confining them in high-humidity chambers for weeks at a time, then spraying them with solutions of copper acids and salt. The goal is to find new anticorrosion coatings that can halt environmentally caused damage without affecting the wheel's nice shine. 
 In another room, G.E. chemists are scrutinizing every step of making semiconductor chips. What sorts of acids, metals or other substances are in the baths that are used to make the chips smooth? What will be left in the wastewater afterward, and how should it be treated? ''It's a moving target because customers keep changing their process formulations,'' said Stephen R. Vasconcellos, the engineer heading the project. 
 Down the hall, researchers are checking out anticorrosion additives that chemical plants, refineries, utilities and the like can use to keep pipes and vats intact. They are working, for example, with small quantities of phosphorus and similar substances that can bind with the calcium molecules that are present in most water to yield calcium compounds that inhibit the formation of rust. It is not as simple as it sounds. Copper-nickel alloys, carbon steel and other compounds that are efficient in transferring heat, and are thus necessary elements of many processing and climate-control systems, are also the first to corrode when water hits them. When they draw on water from municipal systems, a Catch-22 compounds the problem: that water is usually chlorinated, which cuts down on biological contamination but hastens the formation of rust. It is this same vulnerability to water damage that makes the pipe systems corrode in old homes long before the outer frames deteriorate. Galvanized steel could resist the corrosion, but it is much too expensive to use routinely in pipes. 
 ''Water is not just a purity game; it's a cost game,'' explained Dr. Philip M. Rolchigo, the water unit's chief technology officer for the Americas.
 FOR G.E., of course, it is first and foremost a profit game. In the spring of 2001, William A. Woodburn, then the head of GE Specialty Materials, was looking to add some pizazz to his unit's ho-hum business portfolio. So, he went to John Myers, the executive responsible for investing G.E.'s pension funds, and asked him which industry seemed primed for growth. The answer was sure and swift: ''Water.'' 
 Before that year was out, Mr. Woodburn had bought Betz Dearborn, a giant in water treatment chemistry. In 2003, he bought Osmonics, which makes membranes for use in water treatment. Thus was GE Water Technologies born; it is now a $1.4 billion unit of GE Infrastructure. Mr. Woodburn, now the chief executive of GE Infrastructure, has never regretted his choice. ''The need for pure water keeps growing, and so does this high-tech, high-service content business,'' he said.
 Still, the industry does not gush profits. Water is a crowded field, populated by myriad niche companies. G.E. and Nalco, by far the biggest full-service players, command about 30 percent of the market. Water treatment technology is one of Dow Chemical's fastest-growing businesses, yet it is not among the most profitable. ''Everyone is trying to develop a sustainable business model, but so many companies are muscling in that it's still hard to turn a profit in much of this industry,'' said Karen M. Dobson, global market manager for Filmtek, Dow Chemical's line of water purification membranes.
 Acquisitions and divestitures have changed a lot of the company names without thinning the crowded field by much. Analysts expect that many more deals are in the offing. ''The industry can support a fair number of niche players right now, but the field is ripe for more consolidation,'' said Mr. Stirton of Sanford C. Bernstein.
 Whether profits keep flowing may yet depend on how successful the water companies are at selling high-margin services along with products -- a revenue mix that has become the holy grail for many old-economy companies. Nalco, G.E. and USFilter have all offered to take over the management of entire water systems for customers, and each has had some takers, but not many. Customers, apparently, remain jittery about relinquishing control. 
 ''I'd love to outsource all of our water needs, but I'd need some better guarantees of outstanding products and service before I'd be comfortable doing so,'' said Helmut F. Porkert, chief procurement officer at ChevronTexaco, which spends more than $100 million a year on water treatment chemicals. Several DaimlerChrysler assembly plants have put coolant suppliers in charge of their water systems. But Chrysler employees periodically check the water quality themselves. ''It's our name on the line, it's our name on the discharge permit, and it won't be the chemical supplier who ends up with violations,'' said Neil P. McKay, senior manager of wastewater compliance for the Chrysler Group.
 But while unequivocal votes of confidence are lacking, the water companies are slowly winning converts to their outsourcing approach. Ten years ago, PSEG Power, which uses treated wastewater to generate steam as well as to cool its systems, put USFilter in charge of water quality at its New Jersey plants; it may soon farm out the responsibility for water at its Connecticut and New York plants, and at plants it is building in Ohio and Indiana. Neil R. Brown, PSEG's manager of external affairs, knows that it is a big and risky step. 
 So why do it? ''It's still the most efficient and cost-effective way,'' he said, ''to employ the latest water technology.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Stuart Schock, a researcher at the GE Infrastructure Water Technologies lab in Trevose, Pa., checks for signs of corrosion on parts.
 Researchers like Andrea Keys, left, look for ways to protect equipment. Above, the calcium scaling in a water cooling pipe is one example of the industrial casualties on display in the lab's lobby. (Photographs by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); WATER QUALITY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); POWER PLANTS (66%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (62%); HVAC SYSTEMS (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (61%) Water; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (71%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



368 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7; In the Region/Connecticut

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Another Mall Under Way Near I-91 in North Haven

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: NORTH HAVEN 

 BODY:
A BUSY shopping mall developer in the Northeast, the National Realty and Development Corporation, has just broken ground here for a 275,000-square-foot, one-story horizontal 16-store mall to be built near two existing shopping strips off Exit 9 of Interstate 91.
 The company, a 40-year-old family firm based in Purchase, N.Y., with a portfolio of 14 million square feet of retail space in 14 states, has nine projects planned for the next two years in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Vermont. The North Haven project is one of three in Connecticut. 
 Another that recently started is a free-standing Target discount department store that is being built behind the company's Hawley Lane Shopping Center, an enclosed mall in Trumbull. Still in early stages, National Realty is working in partnership with Howard and Edward Milstein, New York City developers, to prepare a presentation for a major apartment and vertical retail complex in downtown Stamford. 
 The National Realty site in North Haven may not be the last commercial project along the I-91 corridor, where 769 acres of vacant land are available: 200 acres behind the National Realty site, 23 acres between the site and another shopping plaza, and 546 acres between Exits 11 and 13, all zoned for retail, office and light industrial use. ''It's probably the largest chunk of land available for commercial-industrial development in the area,'' said Kevin Kopetz, North Haven's first selectman, or mayor. 
 North of the three retail plazas, land along I-91 zoned for commercial use is buffered from residential areas by freight rail tracks on the east and the Quinnipiac River to the west. 
 National Realty's 24.3-acre property had been a warehouse for the Stop and Shop Supermarkets, said Robert C. Baker, the developer's chairman and chief executive, ''producing little income and few jobs.'' His company bought it a year ago for $12.5 million and demolished the warehouse.
 ''Many of our projects today are built by demolishing existing industrial buildings,'' he said. ''The days of taking an old cornfield and building a retail center are gone.'' Construction costs for the project, called North Haven Pavilion, are put at $20 million.
 Situated on the west side of Universal Drive North on a broad two-mile stretch of road with direct access to Exit 9 off I-91, it is several hundred yards north of North Haven Crossing, a shopping plaza formerly owned by CBL & Associates Properties of Chattanooga, Tenn., and sold early last month to Galileo America Real Estate Trust of Australia, according to Taylor Laney, leasing agent for CBL. Its stores and a 10-screen Showcase Theater occupy 45.6 acres and are anchored by Office Max, Sports Authority and Barnes & Noble; the other stores include the music retailer Coconuts, Petco, and Subway. 
 OPPOSITE them, on the east side of Universal Drive, is a cluster of 18 stores including TJ Maxx, Payless ShoeSource, Nextel, Sleepy's, Game Stop, Xpect Discount, and Cingular, anchored by BJ's Wholesale Club and Home Depot and called Home Depot Plaza. The strip covers 31.7 acres and is owned by the Kimco Realty Corporation of New Hyde Park, N.Y.
 National Realty's anchors will be Target, Sports Authority and Michael's, a craft supply store. Target will build its own 125,000-square-foot store; the rest will be built by National Realty. Sports Authority will vacate the 44,000-square-foot store it has operated for 10 years at North Haven Crossing and move up to a new 53,000-square-foot store on the National Realty site. Payless ShoeSource and Sleepy's will move to North Haven Pavilion from Home Depot Plaza.
 ''Some retailers who are already here,'' Mr. Baker said, ''want new stores, a more modern layout and more space. The old stores will be sublet to someone else.'' Tenants of the National Realty project that will be new to the area are Bombay, a furniture and accessories store; Lane Bryant, a clothing store for large-sized women; two more clothing stores; T-Mobile; two restaurants; EB Gameworld; and a one-price store called 99centPower. 
 One 4,830-square-foot space and another 2,500-square-foot space are available. Rents will be in the mid-$20's a square foot and $15 a square foot for larger tenants. Sports Authority and Michael's will be in one building; Target, Bombay and Joyce Leslie, a women's clothing store, will occupy another. The two uncommitted spots are free-standing; the remaining tenants will be in a single long building. Surface parking will be provided for 1,375 cars. 
 North Haven, incorporated in 1786, has no recognizable downtown and a median family income of around $65,000. Its commercial base, decimated in the 1970's by the loss of most of its industrial plants, is led by U.S. Surgical, Marlin Firearms and Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Retailers on Universal Drive draw from a population of about 418,000 living in North Haven, New Haven, East Haven, Branford, Hamden and Wallingford. 
 ''The town had a forward-thinking selectman back in the 80's who saw to it that an outdated industrial section turned into a retail section,'' Mr. Baker said. ''North Haven benefited from the mall wars.'' He was referring to rival attempts to build or expand malls from the 70's to the mid-90's in several Connecticut towns, including New Haven and North Haven.
 ''We added quite a bit to the Universal Drive corridor when the mall went down in New Haven,'' said Mr. Kopetz, the first selectman. 
 T HIS is a good project for the town,'' he said. ''National Realty is at the front end of 200 acres of vacant land to which access has been a problem. They are willing to upgrade the entrance to town road standards, install utilities and take the sewer system into the project, providing a road and sewer system all the way back to the vacant property. We have received a grant from the federal economic development department to do a feasibility study for that site.''
 The Bakers say they have no interest in developing the 200 acres, and the 23 acre parcel, Richard Baker, National Realty's president and Robert's son, noted, ''has some environmental problems, so for the present we are not interested.''
 Back in the 1970's, North Haven had plans for its own 1.2-million-square-foot mall when a private investment group involving town residents bought 196 acres at the intersection of I-91 and Route 22. But that effort ended after New Haven raised objections and the Army Corps of Engineers ruled that the acreage was in an alluvial river valley and the project would have a negative impact on the economies of New Haven and surrounding towns. The land, part of the 546 commercial acres between Exits 11 and 13, remains vacant. 
 As for the million-square-foot New Haven mall, it was proposed for a site overlooking the harbor at Long Wharf in the mid-90's. The city had been seeking to offset the decline of its downtown retail district ever since Macy's and Malley's department stores closed in the 80's. They still cover one square block each, adjacent to each other on Church Street, while the city negotiates with the state for the construction of a new community college to replace the stores.
 A lawsuit against the prospective developers of the Long Wharf mall, the Fusco Company and New England Development of Newton, Mass., was brought by the Westfield Corporation, owner of a mall in Milford. Westfield claimed that Milford would suffer economically from another mall less than 10 miles away. The suit was ultimately dropped, and Westfield eventually bought most of the site. Eighteen months ago, it sold the property to Ikea, the Swedish furniture emporium, whose new 310,000-square-foot store is under construction for a June opening.
 It will be some time before the $300 million proposal by the Milsteins and the Bakers for the long-vacant parcel known as the ''hole in the ground'' in downtown Stamford materializes. ''They have not submitted anything to the city as yet,'' said Robin Stein, Stamford's land use planner. ''They are working on strategies for a presentation.'' The four-acre excavated site at Greyrock Place and Tresser Boulevard has been vacant for more than 20 years. ''The Milsteins will build 550 apartments,'' said Robert Baker, ''and we will build 450,000 square feet of vertical retail.'' Wal-Mart and and its warehouse-store sibling, Sam's Club, are committed tenants and will have 150,000 square feet each, he said. 
 Big box stores, once relegated to outlying areas for fear they would destroy downtown retailing, have reshaped themselves and gone upscale for positioning as tenants in vertical urban malls and as good-looking anchors in landscaped horizontal malls in the suburbs.
 ''Target,'' said Geoffrey Booth, director of retail development at the Urban Land Institute in Washington, ''laid the groundwork for going into traditional malls, and big boxes are complying with customers' demands for nice-looking stores.'' 
 ''These days, not a lot of malls are being built,'' Mr. Baker said, ''and many tenants are moving out of malls to locate in strip shopping centers where they pay less rent, have better visibility and parking at the front door.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Connecticut and Westchester copies last Sunday about shopping mall construction misstated the year that Macy's closed its New Haven store. That was 1994, not in the 80's. The article referred imprecisely to plans for a community college campus on the site of the old Macy's and an adjacent block. It entails consolidation of two existing Gateway Community College campuses, not construction of a new institution. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering shows North Haven Pavilion on west side of Universal Drive. (Photo by CDS Architect)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); RAIL FREIGHT (50%) 

COMPANY: CBL & ASSOCIATES PROPERTIES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: National Realty and Development Corp

TICKER: CBL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles; Robert C Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) North Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



369 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5; If You're Thinking of Living In/South Plainfield

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: A Working Town Coping With Change

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
MAYOR DANIEL J. GALLAGHER of South Plainfield grumbles about the Starbucks coffee shop that is about to open in his Middlesex County, N.J., borough. ''Starbucks, Olive Garden, they're too high class,'' Mr. Gallagher complained. ''We've always been a simple, Dunkin' Donuts kind of town. Now, property values are rising so high that our young people can't get a foothold, and our old Victorians on large lots are being torn down and replaced by six large new homes. Traffic is increasing. Our simple lifestyle is threatened, and I don't like it.''
 The 8.3-square-mile no-frills, largely blue-collar borough is undergoing an unsettling postindustrial redevelopment, ending an era that began in the late 1870's when the Lehigh Valley Railroad built a storage and service yard for its trains that hauled Pennsylvania coal to New York City.
 For more than a century, scores of factories hummed alongside the tracks, turning out products used in the development of the country. Early universal joints were produced at Spicer Manufacturing at the beginning of the automobile age; condensers for the growing radio industry were developed and manufactured at the Cornell-Dublier plant in the 1930's; and Harris Structural Steel was one of the largest World War II steel producers. 
 The population exploded after World War II. According to Mayor Gallagher, the influx started with the arrival of hundreds of families of servicemen who had seen the borough while they were stationed at nearby Camp Kilmer, the country's largest military embarkation center. A decade later, South Plainfield's industrial base had become a magnet for factory workers, who more than doubled the population in one year, from 8,000 in 1959 to 18,000 in 1960. 
 Over the past 15 years, nearly all of the factories have closed. Some have been redeveloped into housing or shopping centers, but dozens, including a National Gypsum plant on Spicer Avenue that has been declared a federal Superfund site, remain empty shells.
 The Lehigh Valley Railroad terminal has been closed and its tracks are now part of the Conrail freight system.
 One factory currently slated for redevelopment is the Tingley Rubber Corporation plant, off Coolidge Street near Interstate 287, which manufactured rain gear for three quarters of a century. A developer has proposed building 488 homes on the site for older residents, but the mayor says that all redevelopment will have to take into account traffic, which is a hot political issue in the borough.
 Most of South Plainfield's approximately 8,000 housing units are postwar and were built in distinct phases, according to Joseph Diegnan, a sales associate at Century 21 Moretti Realty on Maple Avenue. ''Just after the war, they built Capes on Geary Drive and nearby streets,'' in the town's northwestern section, he said. ''In the late 1950's and early 60's, it was all split levels. In the '70's and '80's, they built bilevels, and now everything is colonials.''
 At the beginning of February, 57 houses were on the market, ranging in price from $184,900 for a small two-bedroom ranch on South 11th Street up to $525,000 for a five-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath colonial with a two-car garage on Somerset Avenue. According to Mr. Diegnan, ''properly priced'' homes sell within six weeks, especially in the $250,000 to $350,000 range.
 Many of his customers are the sons and daughters of South Plainfield residents. Lately, however, commuters to Manhattan have discovered the borough, which has excellent transportation links. Interstate 287 cuts through the southern section and Route 1 and Route 22 are within five miles.
 Among the new residents are Tito and Damaris Corsino, who purchased a four-bedroom bilevel on Tremont Avenue and moved in from Staten Island in July. A specialist clerk at the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Corsino said his commute had doubled to slightly more than one hour, but the house on a 100-by-87-foot lot cost less than the couple received for their three-bedroom town house on Staten Island. The South Plainfield house was purchased for $282,000 and, according to Mr. Diegnan, it has already appreciated about 15 percent.
 ''The schools are good, the houses are affordable and there's very little crime,'' Mr. Diegnan explained. ''So we have more demand than supply.''
 JERRY WILLIAMSON, owner of Williamson Realty in Piscataway, said that although South Plainfield's industrial base is gone, the borough still appeals to working people. ''It has that small-town feel that many people want, and it is centrally located within an hour of New York City, New Jersey's pharmaceutical industries and Rutgers University in New Brunswick,'' he said.
 Because of its rapid development as a single-family-home community in the 1950's and 1960's, subsequent restrictive zoning and a 10-year sewer moratorium that limited most construction in the southern section of town until 1995, South Plainfield has only three multifamily housing complexes. All were built within the last five years and all are in the southern section near the Edison line.
 In the 330-unit Traditions condominium complex off New Durham Road, prices range from about $220,000 for some two-bedroom units on one floor up to about $325,000 for a three-bedroom town house style unit with a one-car garage, according to Mr. Diegnan. ''Lately we've seen some two-bedroom units listed at $259,000,'' he said. ''I'm not sure the market will support that price, but I've been wrong before.''
 The larger of the borough's two major rental complexes is the Highlands on Durham Avenue, with 252 units. Listed rents on apartments in the gated 12-building complex range from $1,355 for some one-bedroom units up to $1,720 for the most expensive two-bedrooms. But the complex is currently offering one-bedrooms for $1,225 a month with two months free rent on a 14-month lease. The borough's other apartment development is Woodland Manor, a 157-unit complex on Pomponio Avenue.
 There are about 15 new homes now under construction. Half are in Stacey Estates, an eight-home development of 2,300- to 4,000-square-foot colonials that are replacing a single large Victorian that fronted on Park Avenue. The builder, Nicholas Ferraro, said that the homes, which are to be completed shortly, had already sold in the $450,000 to $500,000 range. 
 The borough has four supermarkets and four shopping centers. The largest is the Hadley Center, on the site of the former Hadley Airport, off Stelton Road. It is anchored by Kohl's, Pathmark and a Bennigan's restaurant. There is an abundance of fast food shops and a number of low and moderately priced restaurants, including Flanagan's, an Irish pub and restaurant on Plainfield Avenue that dates back to the Prohibition era. 
 The 3,800-student South Plainfield Public Schools consists of four elementary schools offering kindergarten through fourth grade, Grant Elementary School for Grades 5 and 6, the South Plainfield Middle School for Grades 7 and 8 and South Plainfield High School. One of the K-4 schools, the 365-student Roosevelt School, opened this year as the centerpiece of a $20 million construction and renovation program that the superintendent of schools, Robert J. Rosado, said would ensure that the system has adequate capacity for the next 5 to 10 years. 
 Dr. Rosado terms the system ''a throwback to a more innocent time,'' where children, teachers and principals are particularly close. He maintains that drug and gang activity in the schools is virtually nonexistent, despite efforts by gangs from neighboring Plainfield to recruit. ''Police patrol our high school campus, students report suspicious cars and the parents are watching their kids to make sure they don't get involved with gangs,'' he said. 
 Yet, South Plainfield's students consistently underperform the state average on proficiency tests and on the SAT reasoning tests. Last year's seniors scored a combined verbal and mathematics average of 980, which is 36 points below the state average. 
 ''We have to push more and expect more,'' said Dr. Rosado, who took over as superintendent a year ago. In part, he cites the educational level of the parents; only about 20 percent of parents in the district have college educations. ''Because the parents are not well educated, many don't have high expectations of their children,'' he said. ''And many families can't afford tutors or don't see the value of SAT preparation courses for their children.''
 SOUTH PLAINFIELD HIGH SCHOOL currently offers 11 advanced placement courses in the sciences, computer science, English, math and history, and next year, it will add two foreign language offerings. It will also offer an SAT preparation course and college-level courses in partnership with Kean University in nearby Union. Of last year's 249 graduates, 48 percent went on to four-year colleges and 30 percent went to two-year schools.
 The borough is also home to the 278-student Sacred Heart School, a Roman Catholic school. Tuition is $2,900 annually for kindergarten through eighth grade for parishioners at the Sacred Heart Church; nonparishioners pay $1,000 more. Full-time prekindergarten costs $300 monthly. 
 The largest recreational area in the borough is the 121-acre county-owned Spring Lake Park, which includes a five-acre fishing lake, a gazebo, four tennis courts, three basketball courts and a playground.
 The most widely used recreational facilities are the Community Center and the Community Pool, opposite each other on Maple Avenue. The Community Center houses an indoor basketball court, a meeting room and a weight room. The pool complex includes an Olympic-sized pool, three wading pools, a picnic area, a miniature golf course and volleyball and basketball courts. Family memberships in the pool cost $250 per season; residents receive free passes to use the community center.


GRAPHIC: Photos: New homes on Stacey Court, left. Spring Lake Park, owned by Middlesex County, on 121 acres, has a lake, a gazebo, tennis and basketball courts and a playground.
Clinton Avenue near Cherry Street in South Plainfield, a section of the borough where most of the houses were part of a postwar building boom. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
2-bedroom, 1-bath ranch at 1264 South 11th Street, $184,900. 3-bedroom, 2-bath colonial at 222 Barone Avenue, $279,900. 4-bedroom, 2 bath bilevel at 1297 Famularo Drive, $385,900.Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 21,810 (2000 census).AREA: 8.2 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $67,466.MEDIAN PRICE OF ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $280,000.MEDIAN PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $265,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $171,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $4,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $220,000.MEDIAN PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $135,000.MIDRANGE RENT ON TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,665.GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Daniel J. Gallagher, Democrat), serving a four-year term, and six Borough Council members, serving staggered three-year terms.SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $10,313.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 33 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 1 hour 10 minutes by New Jersey Transit bus, $6.55 one way, $162 monthly
 or 1 hour, 20 minutes by Suburban Transit bus, $7.40 one way, $66.60 for 10 trips.HADLEY AIRPORT: The first night-time airmail flight originated in what is now South Plainfield, when the pilot J. D. Hill took off from Hadley Airport for Chicago on July 25, 1925. The airport was then entirely in Piscataway Township, but a year later it was split when South Plainfield seceded, with the runways becoming part of South Plainfield and the hangars in Piscataway. Hadley served central New Jersey with both passenger and commercial service. In the mid-1960's, the the airport was vacated, and Middlesex Mall was built there in 1968.Map of New Jersey shows the location of South Plainfield.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); SUPERFUND (61%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (72%); TINGLEY RUBBER CORP (63%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (72%); SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: Jerry Cheslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) South Plainfield (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



370 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1; The World

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: How the World Can Be Saved, Redux

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
MORE than 60 years ago -- when the atom bomb and its horrors were still abstractions pondered by a tiny political and technical elite -- some of its most eminent architects foresaw today's security problems with startling clarity and proposed a radical solution. The world would renounce important aspects of state sovereignty and create a new international order meant to keep the ultimate weapon at bay. 
 The idea set off a top-secret debate in 1944 at the highest levels of the American and British governments, with Roosevelt interested in new political arrangements and Churchill vehemently opposed. Niels Bohr, a Danish Nobel laureate who acted as the scientific conscience of the Manhattan Project, worked hard to win friends for the proposal, sure the stakes were extraordinarily high. 
 ''We are in a completely new situation,'' he wrote, adding that in the years ahead it would produce either a novel peace or global death. ''The terrible prospect of a future competition between nations about a weapon of such formidable character can only be avoided through a universal agreement.''
 Remarkably, the same issues -- and the same stark polarizations, with advocates pushing internationalism on one hand and unilateralism on the other -- lie behind the swirl of recent proposals for dealing with what experts call a dangerous new phase of nuclear proliferation. The confessions of Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan, the rogue Pakistani scientist, have shed light on a vast underground quietly spreading atomic time bombs.
 Last week, President Bush proposed a seven-point plan to shut down the black market, declaring that the ease with which Iran, Libya and North Korea got help from Dr. Khan showed that the United States must ''prevent governments from developing nuclear weapons under false pretenses.''
 While some experts praised the plan for its emphasis on cooperation with other nations, critics faulted it as empty phrasemaking, obscuring the administration's unilateral agenda of acquiring new nuclear arms, antimissile systems and space weapons.
 At the other extreme lie the proposals of Mohamed ElBaradei, director of the International Atomic Energy Agency. He is urging the start of what he delicately calls ''multinational controls'' on making materials that can be used for nuclear arms -- not world government, perhaps, but a cousin that would intrude on state prerogatives in order to halt the atomic leakage.
 Analysts say the nuclear black market may turn out to be so extensive, and its dangers so threatening, that the shock of discovery will help close the historical gap between the two factions and prompt tough reforms -- new global rules, institutions and methods to limit the bomb's spread.
 The alternative, they say, could be grim.
 ''These ideas have has been around for a long time but things have changed and given them new urgency,'' said Lawrence Scheinman, a former State Department arms control official now at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. 
 In 1944, the radical agenda of Dr. Bohr centered, most concretely, on sharing atom secrets with Moscow, Washington's wartime ally, as a prelude to collaborating on international control to avert a precarious standoff of apocalyptic potential.
 ''Bohr saw that far ahead,'' said Richard Rhodes, who wrote of the scientist's labors in ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb.''
 Bohr's idea went nowhere. But shock waves from Hiroshima and Nagasaki reignited the debate, this time in public. ''The only conceivable way to catch up with atomic energy is with political energy directed to a universal structure,'' E.B. White, the essayist who became a crusader for nonproliferation, wrote days after twin fireballs consumed the cities.
 In 1946, the United States put forward a plan for the international control of atomic energy, offering what its architect, Bernard Baruch, called ''a choice between the quick and the dead.'' It also went nowhere.
 The spread of the technology was deemed inevitable. So in 1953 the United States sought to channel it with Atoms for Peace, a program to share nuclear gear on the condition of inspections. The 1968 Nonproliferation Treaty codified new ways to limit the bomb's spread even while encouraging legitimate nuclear commerce.
 Crises have repeatedly shaken the world's jumble of unilateral and global controls, with subsequent efforts at repairs and improvements. 
 The current crisis marks a dangerous escalation, experts say. Never before has the nuclear black market been found to operate with such startling impunity and thoroughness. This time it offered complete kits -- raw uranium, machines for enriching it and even blueprints for how to turn nuclear fuel into atom bombs.
 Pakistani experts argue that the market's sheer size demonstrates that Islamabad -- which never signed the Nonproliferation Treaty -- actually bears less blame than nations that did but whose citizens nonetheless defied the prohibitions. 
 ''We have not broken any international treaties.'' said Shireen M. Mazari, director general of the Institute of Strategic Studies, a research group in Islamabad financed by Pakistan's foreign office. 
 That's the problem, experts agree. The rules are so weak, so haphazardly applied, and so poorly enforced that they verge on irrelevance. They are what Dr. ElBaradei calls a failed gentleman's agreement.
 Mr. Bush offered a mix of unilateral and global fixes. For instance, he renewed a call for the United Nations to require all states to criminalize nuclear arms propagation. He also issued a warning: ''We will find the middlemen, the supplier and the buyers.'' 
 Dr. ElBaradei's approach would go further, erecting multinational controls on making new nuclear fuel, processing weapon-usable materials and disposing of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
 In essence, his plan would get individual states out of the nuclear fuel business and put that responsibility into the hands of international consortiums. Critics fault Dr. ElBaradei's approach as naive and Mr. Bush's as helpful but hypocritical. His administration, said the Natural Resources Defense Council, in analyzing his plan, ''is spending record amounts revitalizing the U.S. nuclear weapons complex.''
 The United States and other powers, said Wade Boese, research director of the Arms Control Association, must lead by example and do more to reduce their reliance on nuclear weapons in order to ''diminish the importance and lure of such arms to others.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The back of a brochure from Khan Research Laboratories. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SPACE WEAPONS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%) Atomic Weapons; Black Markets; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Space Weapons (Star Wars); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (50%) William J Broad; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan; George W (Pres) Bush; Mohamed Elbaradei

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Pakistan; Iran; Libya; North Korea; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



371 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Seneca Indians Fend Off State's Plan to Tax Tribal Goods

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
They have spent millions of dollars in advertising, accused Albany of trying to break a 200-year-old federal treaty and asked President Bush to come to their aid.
 Now, with memories of past standoffs hanging in the air, the Seneca Indian Nation appears to have won, at least for the moment, its fight against a state plan to collect hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes from goods sold on its lands, in the western New York State area.
 The tax plan was conceived last year by state lawmakers from both major political parties who have been under increasing pressure to collect the unpaid sales and excise taxes on all goods sold to non-Indian customers at Indian stores, where the mainstays are gasoline and cigarettes. Non-Indian wholesalers would be taxed before their goods were sold to Indian retailers. 
 Some neighboring merchants argue that the state's $1.50-a-pack tax on cigarettes and 28.95-cents-a-gallon tax on gasoline create unfair price differences and cost them business. A nonprofit group, Upstate Citizens for Equality, goes further, saying the state must collect the taxes to ensure equal and fair application of the tax laws for state residents.
 The state budget that passed in May counted on $186 million in new revenue this year and $374 million next year from the collection of the taxes on tribal land.
 The Seneca Nation fiercely opposed it, launching an advertising and public relations campaign calling the move a violation of federal treaties from 1794 and 1842.
 In a Dec. 19 letter to President Bush, Rickey L. Armstrong Sr., the president of the Seneca Nation, wrote that he expected the United States ''to intercede if another party, even one of its own states, attempts to violate our treaty rights.''
 In November, the Pataki administration announced that it would postpone by at least three months the planned Dec. 1 start of the tax collection plan. 
 In his budget presentation on Jan. 20, Gov. George E. Pataki then announced that he wanted to delay the start of the tax collections until March 2005. The ostensible reason, state officials said, was to address the tax collection as part of a package of issues the state faced with its Indian tribes, including various land claims and the establishment of six Indian-owned casinos. 
 But this week, Andrew S. Eristoff, the commissioner of the state's Department of Taxation and Finance, told a joint legislative committee that the state plan would be postponed indefinitely, saying the state needed more time to review public comments about the proposed tax regulations. He also said the possibility of violence by the Indians was a significant concern.
 In 1997, after Mr. Pataki last tried to collect taxes on a Seneca reservation, about 1,000 tribal members blocked traffic on the New York State Thruway. Indians and state troopers clashed, with a number of injuries on each side, and about a dozen patrol cars were damaged.
 An administration official said that if protests similar to the protests that took place in 1997 happened today, they would cost New York millions of dollars a week and take hundreds of state police troopers away from important new homeland security duties.
 Mr. Armstrong said tribal leaders were not planning violent resistance to the tax collections, but he also could not promise that the tribe could keep a lid on any potential disorder.
 A former Seneca president referred to the conflict as ''the Senecas' last stand.'' And in a Dec. 2 letter to the state, the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe warned about the potential for problems if the state tried to collect the taxes.
 ''Jobs and the future economy of our tribe are at risk, and public health, safety and welfare will be endangered,'' read the letter, signed by three tribal leaders.
 On Tuesday, Mr. Armstrong said Mr. Eristoff's announcement proved that the tribe's lobbying efforts were ''worth every penny.'' 
 ''This postponement tells us we have succeeded in educating the people of New York about the importance of honoring Indian treaties,'' Mr. Armstrong said in a written statement. ''We recognize this as a positive step by the governor in attempting to achieve a resolution to this issue that is respectful of our sovereignty and our deeply held belief in the rightness of our cause.''
 But others are furious with Mr. Eristoff, saying the issue is a matter of fairness and equity.
 ''We are not happy with the commissioner or the department, period, on several fronts,'' said John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Joseph L. Bruno, the state Senate's Republican majority leader. He said Mr. Eristoff had taken the law into his own hands and though he declined to provide specifics, he said, ''We will act accordingly to show our displeasure.''
 Daniel T. Warren, the chairman of the Niagara Frontier chapter of the Upstate Citizens for Equality, said the group was collecting signatures on a petition in an effort to have the State Assembly initiate impeachment proceedings to remove the governor, who he said is obliged to carry out the law the Legislature passed.
 ''It amounts to selective enforcement of New York's valid tax laws,'' Mr. Warren said of the Pataki administration's indefinite delay. 
 Kevin C. Quinn, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said, ''That is so ridiculous as to not be worthy of a response.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); EXCISE TAX (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SALES TAX (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); FUEL TAX (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SMOKING (74%); RIOTS (74%); GASOLINE (74%); POLITICS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%) Indians, American; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Smoking and Tobacco; Indians, American; Seneca Indians; Demonstrations and Riots; Public Opinion; Advertising and Marketing; Indians, American; Law and Legislation; Sales Tax; Excise Taxes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Al Baker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



372 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Do You Need to Go Negative to Topple a Front-Runner?

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
In the scrappy, often hard-hearted world of presidential politics, Senator John Edwards has stood out by presenting himself as Mr. Nice Guy: No harsh attack advertisements. No sharp contrasts with the front-runner, Senator John Kerry. The word ''Kerry'' rarely crosses his lips.
 Instead, Mr. Edwards smiles his way through sunny promises of a ''positive, uplifting vision'' and ''bringing hope'' to America. 
 The relentlessly upbeat approach has worked, to a point. While Mr. Edwards may not be on the verge of snatching the Democratic nomination from Mr. Kerry, at least he is still standing.
 But some strategists say that by refusing to go after Mr. Kerry, Mr. Edwards is lending credence to the notion -- true or not -- that he wants to be the senator's vice-presidential running mate or position himself for some future office.
 ''He's clearly the No. 2 guy,'' said Dave Manley, an Edwards supporter who heard the candidate speak at a rally on Thursday in Racine.
 Mr. Edwards has repeatedly denied campaigning for the second slot on the Democratic ticket when asked about that in New Hampshire, in South Carolina, in Tennessee, in Virginia and now, in Wisconsin. Yet the notion still lingers, in part because Mr. Edwards has not emphatically ruled it out.
 It does not help that some Democrats have begun speaking of his candidacy in the past tense, even some who otherwise heap praise on him for his positive message and for raising concerns about poverty and rural America.
 ''He may be out of votes for the race for president, but I hope he can be utilized,'' said May Scheve Reardon, the chairwoman of the Missouri Democratic Party, who has not endorsed any candidate. ''He would be great to add to any cabinet.''
 Tony Coelho, a Democratic strategist who was chairman of Al Gore's 2000 campaign, said Mr. Edwards's approach was reminiscent of John F. Kennedy's vice-presidential campaign in 1956, setting up a successful run in 1960. He said Mr. Edwards had accrued significant good will and political stock that he could cash in down the road.
 ''If Dean beats him he is really hurt, and if he comes in second the issue is should he get out at that point,'' Mr. Coelho said. ''Because I think he has got cash in the bank, and to bet on Kerry losing is not a good bet.'' 
 Many Democratic strategists say that as he faces a critical primary in Wisconsin on Tuesday, it is time for Mr. Edwards to offer voters a reason they should not vote for Mr. Kerry. They said his approach worked when the field was larger and hostile fire was directed at the presumed front-runner, Howard Dean.
 ''You have a chance to collect votes from everybody else, and that's clearly what happened in Iowa,'' said David Doak, a Democratic consultant. But as the field narrows and the front-runner builds momentum, Mr. Doak said, ''it may be a tactic that ends up costing the war.''
 Recent political history is dotted with examples of candidates who surged after early primary losses -- Ronald Reagan in 1976, Edward M. Kennedy in 1980, Gary Hart in 1984. They all came back after clearly delineating sharp differences in policy or ideology, though none went on to capture the nomination.
 ''Everybody who had a comeback after losing, what, 14 primaries and caucuses now, has had some framework to do it,'' said Bill Carrick, a strategist who worked for Representative Richard A. Gephardt, who dropped out of the race after Iowa. ''They got some traction out of challenging the opponent either on ideology or policy grounds, some substantial attack.''
 But Mr. Edwards steers clear of mentioning Mr. Kerry by name on the stump, and in news conferences he mentions him by name only when prompted by reporters. He last criticized Mr. Kerry by name on Feb. 2, and aides are concerned that heading back in that direction will be interpreted by the press as attacks.
 Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry are moderates who have voted the same way on many hot button issues -- for the war in Iraq, against an $87 billion appropriation for it last year, for the No Child Left Behind legislation.
 Here in Wisconsin, aides to Mr. Edwards say they believe Mr. Kerry is vulnerable on the issue of trade -- he voted for the North American Free Trade Agreement that many in this state blame for the loss of thousands of manufacturing jobs to Mexico. Mr. Edwards was not in the Senate when the measure passed, but he has said he would have opposed it.
 Still, Mr. Edwards has not pointed out Mr. Kerry's vote and has focused on declaring where he stands, supporting ''not just free trade but fair trade,'' and advocating tax credits and other measures to induce companies to stay put and to build factories and offices in communities with high unemployment.
 For now, at least, the Edwards camp seems intent on pressing forward with a test of the theory that a candidate does not need to go negative, or even articulate sharp distinctions, to bring down a front-runner.
 Mr. Edwards and his advisers insist that his message is perfectly fine. Edwards aides point out that Gov. James E. Doyle of Wisconsin has admonished the candidates to keep their campaigning civil.
 With his positive approach, Mr. Edwards's aides say, he can repeat his performance in the Iowa caucuses last month, when he surged from behind to a surprising second.
 Mr. Edwards believes he draws a distinction between himself and Mr. Kerry every day by talking about his upbringing in a mill town and mentioning that his brother is a union electrician and that his mother is a retired member of the letter carriers' union; Mr. Kerry's more privileged background goes without saying.
 ''There is a candidate in this race who will wake up every morning thinking about you,'' he said here on Friday to a couple of dozen steelworkers whose plant plans to lay off 500 workers next summer.
 Asked later why Mr. Kerry could not make the same statement, Mr. Edwards replied: ''I'll let him speak for himself. I know because I personally lived through this. I take it very personally.
 ''When I talk about their problems and what I will do for them it comes from -- in here,'' he said as he pointed to his heart.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Edwards presents a ''positive, uplifting vision'' on the campaign. He greeted supporters in Nashville. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); AL GORE (58%) Randal C Archibold; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



373 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; Your Taxes

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Pin the Label on Tax Policy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHATEVER happens in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, the general election campaign is shaping up as a showdown between candidates with competing philosophies on tax policy.
 President Bush pushed large tax cuts through Congress in each of his first three years in office. Now, although he says the country is on a wartime footing, and despite the largest budget deficit in history, he wants to make those tax reductions permanent and add several new ones.
 All the candidates for the Democratic nomination want to cancel at least some of the tax cuts enacted in the last three years. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the front-running Democrat, would repeal the cuts for taxpayers with incomes of more than $200,000 but retain those for people who earn less. 
 Last week, voters got a preview of what to expect in the fall campaign when the president traveled to Springfield, Mo., to speak about the economy. ''They're going to say, 'Let's not make the tax cuts permanent,''' Mr. Bush declared. ''Now is not the time to raise taxes on the American people.''
 ''People have got to understand and listen to the rhetoric carefully,'' Mr. Bush added. ''When they say, 'We're going to repeal Bush's tax cuts,' that means they're going to raise your taxes, and that's wrong, and that's bad economics.''
 Mr. Kerry responded in a campaign appearance in Memphis. ''If George Bush wants to stand there and defend people who earn more than $200,000 a year getting a tax cut instead of giving health care to Americans and instead of investing in education and job training,'' he said, ''that's the debate we deserve for this nation, and I think it's a debate we will win.''
 Any candidate's specific campaign promises about taxes, of course, are a long way from becoming law. Bill Clinton built his successful 1992 campaign around the idea of the ''forgotten middle class'' and promised a middle-class tax cut. Once he was elected, he abandoned the tax cut and concentrated on reducing the budget deficit.
 The tax increases he won in 1993 were imposed largely on the wealthy, but at least two changes -- a higher gasoline tax and income taxes on some Social Security benefits -- hit middle-income taxpayers.
 Even if the winner of the election this November tries to fulfill his campaign promises, he may not be able to do so. Mr. Bush may not have the votes in Congress to make his tax cuts permanent over a likely filibuster in the Senate. If Mr. Kerry is elected, he may find it difficult to get any programs through Congress if it remains under Republican control. 
 Still, the difference in philosophies is important, because it establishes where the candidates intend to place emphasis if they are elected.
 Gen. Wesley K. Clark withdrew from the Democratic race last week, leaving only two other candidates besides Mr. Kerry who have received more than 10 percent of the vote in several primaries and caucuses: Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina.
 Dr. Dean would repeal all the Bush tax cuts and use most of the money saved to pay for universal health insurance. He has talked about but never specifically proposed a reduction in the Social Security payroll tax.
 Mr. Edwards, like Mr. Kerry, advocates canceling the tax cuts for the wealthy and retaining those benefiting the less affluent. Specifically, he would repeal the reduction in the top two tax rates and the new rates on capital gains and dividends for those with incomes of more than $240,000 and would retain the estate tax. He advocates new tax breaks to help middle-income families make down payments on homes and build private savings.
 The Bush tax cuts are scheduled to expire toward the end of this decade. The Tax Policy Center, a project of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, calculated that if the tax cuts were extended, $4 trillion would be lost in revenue over the 10 years from 2005, when the new president will take office, through 2014. If tax cuts were canceled for those with incomes of more than $200,000, about half of that revenue would be retained, the center found.
 The details of Mr. Kerry's plan have not been spelled out. Presumably, for people who are not rich, he would retain certain tax breaks: 
 The 10 percent tax bracket, which covers the first $7,000 of a single filer's taxable income ($14,000 for married couples filing jointly).
 The higher tax credit for children, now $1,000 a child but scheduled to drop to $700 for 2005 through 2008.
 The tax break that reduces the likelihood that a working married couple would owe higher taxes than they would if they were single. 
 Mr. Kerry would certainly not allow the estate tax to be canceled, and he would return the top tax rate, now 35 percent, to 39.1 percent, where it was in 2001. 
 But it is not clear how Mr. Kerry would go about charging taxpayers with incomes of more than $200,000 a higher rate of taxes on stock dividends and capital gains than would be owed by people with smaller incomes. 
 In addition to making permanent the tax cuts approved in 2001, 2002 and 2003, Mr. Bush wants to create two savings accounts in which the earnings would accumulate tax-free, allow taxpayers who take the standard deduction to take an additional deduction for at least part of their charitable contributions and prevent many taxpayers from being hit with the alternative minimum tax for another year.
 The savings accounts would have the effect of exempting from taxation a large portion of Americans' earnings from investments. These accounts would not lose much revenue for the government at first but would be very costly years from now. 
 Mr. Bush says that regardless of the budget deficit, now above $500 billion, his tax cuts are good for the economy.
 On ''Meet the Press'' last Sunday, the moderator, Tim Russert, noted that every wartime president since Abraham Lincoln had raised taxes to help cover military expenses, and he asked Mr. Bush whether he intended to do that. 
 The president implied that he would not. ''I believe that if you raise taxes as the economy is beginning to recover from really tough times, you will slow down economic growth,'' he said.
 How about, Mr. Russert continued, not cutting taxes further until the budget is balanced? Mr. Bush would not make that promise, either.
 Mr. Kerry labeled Mr. Bush's tax policies the height of folly. As for making the wealthy pay higher taxes, ''he can call it what he wants,'' Mr. Kerry said last week, sharpening his argument for the fall campaign. ''I call it fairness for all Americans.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An advertisement from the John Kerry campaign criticizes the Bush administration. Mr. Kerry wants to repeal tax cuts given to the wealthy. (pg. 14)Drawing (Drawing by Chris Lensch)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FUEL TAX (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%) Taxation; Election Issues ; Law and Legislation; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%) David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



374 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Market May Not Duck the Wallop of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, reassured investors last week, saying that Fed policy makers would be patient about raising interest rates. 
 But at the same time, Mr. Greenspan predicted that economic growth could be around 5 percent this year -- a forecast that means investors can no longer wonder whether rates are going to rise. They can wonder only when. 
 An analysis by the RiskMetrics Group, a financial risk management firm in New York, predicts that if rates rise even modestly, the stock market will decline, an outcome that may surprise some analysts and investors. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index could fall by a range of 1.1 percent to 2.2 percent. The analysis also shows that there will be big winners and losers among stock sectors, even if rates rise just a bit. 
 Among RiskMetrics' winners are the energy and consumer-staples sectors of the S.&P. 500, which include companies like Exxon Mobil, ChevronTexaco, Schlumberger, Wal-Mart, Gillette and Anheuser-Busch.
 The S.&P. energy index could rise by a range of 9 percent to 18.7 percent, while the consumer staples index could climb by 7.4 percent to 15.2 percent.
 The losers are likely to be companies in the materials and financial services sectors, like Alcoa, Dow Chemical, International Paper, American Express, Citigroup and Charles Schwab.
 The S.&P. materials index could plunge by 12.8 percent to 23.9 percent, while the financial services index could fall by 7.6 percent to 14.5 percent.
 RiskMetrics, using the same approach of many companies, investment firms and central banks, looks at what may occur in other markets if one market makes a big move.
 For this analysis, RiskMetrics looked at the correlation between recent moves in interest rates and the 10 main sectors of the S.&P. 500 index, assuming two possibilities. The first is generally in line with current forecasts: an increase of one percentage point in the yields of the Treasury's 3-month bill and 10-year note. The second assumption, a two-point climb in each yield, shows the possible damage from a surprise, like deficit fears' driving rates higher than now expected.
 The RiskMetrics analysis concentrates on market correlations over the last year, with an emphasis on the last 20 trading days, so its results are hard to compare with other periods when rates rose. Still, the RiskMetrics outcome is broadly consistent with what happened in 1994, the last time the Fed raised its benchmark interest rate, the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks. The Fed raised that rate by two and a half percentage points in 1994 to help slow growth and, in turn, pushed other rates higher. The yield on the Treasury 10-year note climbed two full percentage points.
 At the end of that year, the S.&P. 500 was down 1.5 percent. The financial services index fell 6.4 percent, while the consumer-staples index rose 6.8 percent. But the materials index, which falls in the RiskMetrics analysis, rose 3.3 percent. The energy index, which RiskMetrics shows as climbing, slipped by 0.4 percent.
 THE RiskMetrics analysis is not consistent with the most recent jump in interest rates, from June to September of last year, when the yield on the 10-year note climbed by 1.5 percentage points.
 During that period, the S.&P. 500 climbed 3.4 percent, while the materials index jumped 10.1 percent and the financial services index rose 1.4 percent. But the energy index, a RiskMetrics winner, slipped 0.2 percent.
 The environment for this rate climb, however, was different than what RiskMetrics is assuming. Last year, the Fed was promising to keep interest rates low. Now Fed officials are saying that a rate rise is on the horizon. 
 So the RiskMetrics analysis seems to get the overall direction right, which means that the stock market rally may stall when rates rise.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Rate Effects''The estimated effects of rising interest rates on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and its sectors, based on past movements of interest rates and the S.& P.S.& P. 500 sectorsOverall index1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -1.1%2 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -2.2%Energy1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +9.02 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +18.7Consumer staples1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +7.42 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +15.2Information technology1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +6.62 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +13.5Telecommunication services1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +2.52 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: +5.1Health care1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -1.42 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -2.8Utilities1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -1.52 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -3.0Industrials1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -2.92 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -5.7Consumer discretionary1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -7.32 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -14.0Financials1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -7.62 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -14.5Materials1 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -12.82 PCT.-POINT INCREASE*: -23.9*In 3-month and 10-year Treasuries.(Source by RiskMetrics Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); CHEMICALS TRADE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (74%); CHEMICALS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); RISKMETRICS GROUP INC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); CHEVRON CORP (55%); ALCOA INC (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; RiskMetrics Group

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); CVX (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); DOW (SWX) (54%); DOW (NYSE) (54%); DOW (LSE) (54%); 4850 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



375 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3; The Nation -- Case Study: Cellphones

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: The Bright Side of Sending Jobs Overseas

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
FOR most politicians -- Democratic or Republican -- the issue of outsourcing jobs to faraway countries is a no-brainer: It's bad for the United States economy and it's even worse for their careers, especially in an election year when the work force has just lost more than two million jobs. So it is unsurprising that politicians of both parties ripped into N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, when his annual economic report on Tuesday made precisely the opposite point: that if services like software programming can be done more cheaply in India, it makes sense for companies to procure them there. Outsourcing will ultimately enhance their productivity. 
 Yet while debate is raging over globalization's costs and benefits, Mr. Mankiw's comments are based on solid, age-old economic arguments. Most economists agree that higher productivity -- whether it comes from trade, outsourcing or technology -- is good, even when it creates pain for many workers. 
 ''Outsourcing does not reduce the total number of jobs in America,'' said Robert Reich, who served as labor secretary under President Bill Clinton. ''If other countries can do something cheaper we ought to let them do it, and concentrate on what we can do best.'' 
 Indeed, despite the hemorrhage of jobs since Mr. Bush took office, the past performance of the American economy -- particularly the pattern of job creation and destruction over the past several years -- supports Mr. Mankiw's case.
 In many ways, the economists' argument for outsourcing is as straightforward as the case for importing products. If an Indian software programmer is paid a tenth of an American's salary, a company that develops software in India will save money and -- provided competitors do the same -- the price of its software will fall, productivity will rise, the technology will spread, and new jobs will be created to adapt and improve it.
 Take cellphones, which 20 years ago were luxury items with the size and weight of a brick. Today -- thanks to competition and inexpensive, globalized production -- they are cheap, ubiquitous, tiny and packed with a mind-boggling complement of ancillary functions. The industry and the number of jobs have only increased. Global outsourcing also played a big role in the information technology boom of the late 1990's. Personal computers were imported from abroad. Chip companies shipped production overseas. But this outsourcing prompted the creation of new jobs here, on the higher end of the technological spectrum.
 A report released last December by Catherine L. Mann of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington research group that backs free trade, calculated that lower costs due to globalized production accounted for 10 percent to 30 percent of the decline in hardware prices during the technology boom of the second half of the 1990's, when computer prices fell 10 percent a year. 
 The impact of cheap hardware was felt throughout the economy. Ms. Mann calculates that outsourcing boosted productivity growth from 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent a year from 1995 to 2002, a gain that in turn added at least $230 billion to the country's total output of goods and services. 
 As lower-priced technology flooded the marketplace, it helped generate new jobs, as companies that snapped up computers suddenly required software and workers who could adapt the products to their needs. 
 Ms. Mann notes that demand for people who knew how to use computers grew by 22 percent through the 1990's boom, twice as fast as overall job creation. ''This is despite the fact that outsourcing of computer jobs was going on,'' Ms. Mann said. 
 Moreover, lower prices also muted inflation, allowing interest rates to be lower than they otherwise would be -- thus boosting investment and growth. And the Asian countries that made computers and chips spent some earnings buying other American services -- like legal and financial assistance.
 Over all, Ms. Mann notes, ''unemployment in the 1990's fell to 4 percent,'' despite aggressive outsourcing during this period.
 But for many unions, investment in foreign lands is undisputedly bad. ''For every investment you make there is investment you don't make here,'' says Bob Baugh, executive director of the Industrial Union Council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , which has suffered a relentless decline in manufacturing jobs since the late 1990's. ''People are concerned about their own job. They know it's a problem and they are absolutely stunned by the admission of this administration.''
 Fears of outsourcing have heightened even further, because it is no longer just manufacturing jobs that are threatened, but high-paying, white-collar service-sector jobs. Moreover, the worldwide pool of available well-trained workers is much larger, and they are only a mouse-click away. 
 The Internet and other technologies have enabled Dell, the personal computer manufacturer, to open customer support centers in India, and allowed Delta Airlines to send reservations jobs to the Philippines. The trend seems to be moving up the skills ladder: Oracle, a software company, and Ericsson, the telecommunications equipment manufacturer, have moved product and software development jobs to India. An often-cited report by Forrester Research says 3.3 million American white-collar service industry jobs will move overseas by 2015. People are afraid that they will be left with low-paying jobs at Wal-Mart.
 Yet most economists agree that the impact on productivity, economic growth and jobs should be similar to that of the outsourcing of hardware in the late 1990's. Prices of technology services will fall, technology will become more pervasive, and jobs will be created as businesses find new things to do with the technology.
 ''We tend to keep the high end of the value chain,'' said Janet Yellen, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley who was head of Mr. Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. ''We're outsourcing the more standardized part of high tech.''
 Indeed, employment in the service sector -- including those services considered most at risk of being outsourced to developing nations -- has not done too badly compared with the rest of the job market. 
 The United States has lost many jobs of late. But that's basically because the economy fell into recession. From 1999 to 2003, as the economy peaked and went bust, 1.3 million nonfarm jobs vanished. Manufacturing lost 2.8 million jobs; 800,000 management positions disappeared -- including C.E.O.'s and other executive jobs that are not easily outsourced to Bangladesh.
 But business and financial service occupations -- at risk of the kind of outsourcing that Forrester Research warns of -- added more than 600,000 jobs during the period. Another sector that is supposed to be vulnerable, what the Commerce Department calls computer and mathematical occupations, added 150,000 jobs. Moreover, many jobs that are outsourced today -- like call-center operators or data-entry staff -- could just as easily be lost to automation. 
 ''Productivity growth, however it occurs, has a disruptive side to it,'' Ms. Yellen said. ''In the short term most things that contribute to productivity growth are very painful.'' Fast productivity growth is one reason that employment hasn't picked up despite fast economic growth. 
 What to do? Labor unions would support legislation that slowed globalization down. Others, like Mr. Reich, want more comprehensive employment insurance. Ms. Yellen supports better education and job training. But ending sources of productivity growth, she said, is not a good idea. ''You could end up with an economy that does not show progress and doesn't improve living standards,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David McLimans) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); OUTSOURCING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICS (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (75%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) United States Economy; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; International Trade and World Market; Productivity; International Trade and World Market; Science and Technology; Telephones and Telecommunications; United States Economy; Cellular Telephones; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%) Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%) Eduardo Porter; N Gregory Mankiw

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



376 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; Your Taxes

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: Talking Simplicity, Building A Maze

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON. 
For an audio interview with David Cay Johnston, go to www.nytimes .com/taxes.

 BODY:
NINE years ago, Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in part because Newt Gingrich promised in the ''Contract With America'' that they would cut taxes and simplify the tax system.
 The goal was to ''tear out the income tax by its roots and discard it and replace it with a new form of taxation,'' said Representative Bill Archer of Texas in 1995, shortly after he became the first Republican in four decades to head the House Ways and Means Committee.
 But the reality has been far different. As Chris Bergin, the chief executive of Tax Analysts Inc., the nonprofit publisher of Tax Notes, put it, ''Instead of tearing the income tax out by its roots, Congress has been watering and fertilizing it.''
 For decades, Congress has used the tax code to engineer social goals and hand out favors, a trend that accelerated during the Clinton administration and became supercharged during the administration of George W. Bush, which has introduced vast changes in such rapid-fire order that not all the consequences are understood even by people who study tax policy. Three major tax bills enacted in three years have vastly complicated the tax code, and a fourth Bush tax-cut bill is in the works. 
 The demand for more tax cuts is strong, especially from Americans with the highest incomes, despite soaring budget shortfalls. As Gene Steuerle, a tax policy expert in the Reagan administration who is now a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, has said, ''Around the town of Washington, the passing of a tax act never leads to a decline in requests for new tax breaks.''
 Giving tax cuts to specific groups can be a powerful way for politicians to raise money, so it is not surprising that the size of the tax code has grown -- along with the volumes of money from campaign donors -- even though nearly all elected officials in Washington say that they favor simplification. 
 Congress is so hooked on complexity that it cannot seem to keep things simple even on matters that would not seem to offer any prospect of currying favor with contributors. The tax code, for example, contains five tax breaks for families with children, and each of the five defines a qualifying child differently.
 So can anything be done about tax-code complexity? Or is simplification just a pipe dream?
 Bruce Bartlett, a Republican tax expert who is a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, said that the political and economic algebra worked like this: ''Support for simplification always disappears when people are forced to consider giving up tax breaks that benefit them. Complexity is O.K. as long as it saves you money.''
 In an e-mail message, Mr. Bartlett said his ''main complaint about how simplification is generally discussed is that it doesn't differentiate between what I would call technical complexity (how many lines are on the tax form, how clear are the instructions) and fundamental complexity (the inability of experts to figure out what the tax law means, how to define income, etc.).''
 Eliminating fundamental complexity, it turns out, is not simple. Academics who have tackled specific aspects of simplification have churned out law review articles with more footnotes than this article has periods. 
 When Congress ordered the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation to study simplification in 1998, it took 18 months of work to identify the issues -- and then decided to ignore 22 major ones that involved policy questions rather than tax administration. 
 When the committee's three-volume study was released in April 2001, it had 150 major recommendations and was 1,300 pages long. 
 Paul H. O'Neill, President Bush's first Treasury secretary, said the study ''points out the seriousness of complexity and the corrosive impact it has on the tax system.'' Mr. O'Neill said the study showed ''that there is a desperate need for reform'' because too many taxpayers spent too much time and money trying to comply with the law. ''We are worthy of better,'' he said.
 Here is a look at some of the complex issues of tax simplification:

The Code's Five Children
 Federal tax law gives five breaks for people with children: dependency exemptions, head of household filing status, the child tax credit, the child and dependent care tax credit and the earned income tax credit. But each break has its own definition of a qualifying child.
 In some cases, a child can be in her 20's; in others she must be under 13 or 17 or 18. A child must reside in a home for a full year to qualify for some tax breaks, while for others the adult getting the break need not lay eyes on the child.
 As a result of these different definitions, two families with the same income, but with children of different ages, can owe very different amounts of federal income tax. That violates a basic tax principle called horizontal equity, the idea that people with similar incomes should pay similar amounts of tax.
 Confusion over the definition of a qualifying child appears to be a big reason that a fifth of all claims for the earned income tax credit contain errors. The Congressional study concluded that many of the working poor mistakenly believe that any child who qualifies for an exemption as a dependent also counts in qualifying for the earned income tax credit. Congress has enacted rules that are so complex that the experts have trouble explaining them in plain English.
 ''Adopting a uniform definition would reduce inadvertent taxpayer errors resulting from differing definitions of a qualifying child,'' the study said. 
 But even solving that problem is not child's play. This month, the Treasury Department proposed a ''uniform definition'' that would define a child as anyone under 19, except in these cases:
 From the ages of 19 to 24, a person could be a child for purposes of the personal tax exemption, so long as she was a full-time student who was supported by her parents or was permanently and totally disabled.
 Eligibility for the middle-class child credit would end at the age of 17 -- one year before legal adulthood.
 The dependent care credit for working parents would end when a child turns 13.
 Adopting this ''uniform definition'' would cost the government $475 million in lost taxes from 2005 through 2014, the Treasury Department estimated this month.
 What the department did not break down was the cost of allowing exemptions for 24-year-old graduate students to subsidize their advanced education, compared with the cost of continuing a tax subsidy for children of working parents so that they do not become latchkey kids just as they enter puberty.
 Joel Slemrod, director of the Office of Tax Policy Research at the University of Michigan, favors applying the idea of uniform definitions to more than just who qualifies as a child. Mr. Slemrod said that all tax credits for the middle class, like the Hope Scholarship and Lifetime Learning credits and the child credit, should apply to the same range of incomes, and should all start to phase out at the same dollar level. 

The Stealth Tax
 More than three decades ago, Congress passed the original version of what is now the alternative minimum tax to make sure that people with big incomes -- more than $1 million a year in today's dollars -- could not escape income taxes. Measured against that goal, the law has failed. Even when incomes are adjusted for inflation, the number of high-income Americans who paid no income taxes anywhere in the world has almost doubled, to 300 in 2000 from 155 in 1966. 
 Congress, meanwhile, has let the alternative minimum tax morph into something that strikes increasingly at the middle and upper middle class. More than 42 million taxpayers, about two-thirds of those making more than $30,000 a year, will lose some or all of their Bush tax cuts to the minimum tax by 2013, according to calculations by two tax economists, Leonard E. Burman of the Urban Institute and William G. Gale of the Brookings Institution.
 Since 1987, the tax has stripped people of their exemptions for themselves, their spouses and their children, along with their deductions for state income taxes and local property taxes. It can even force people with huge medical bills to pay higher taxes.
 Nina E. Olson, the I.R.S. taxpayer advocate, has proposed a simple solution in her latest annual report for Congress: repeal the tax. If that is not done, she said, couples who make less than $150,000, and singles who make half that, should then be exempted from the minimum tax, just as businesses with sales of less than $5 million are generally exempt from the corporate version of the tax. 
 Ms. Olson suggested that routine personal tax breaks should not be considered for the minimum tax -- those exemptions for the taxpayer, spouse and dependents; the standard deduction; and itemized deductions for state income taxes, local property taxes, and medical bills. She also favored indexing the trigger points for the tax for inflation.
 The problem with repealing this complex and little-understood tax is that the first round of Bush tax cuts had the effect of increasing the alternative minimum tax paid by those making $30,000 to $500,000 a year. Over the first decade after the cuts, the alternative minimum tax was projected to raise more than a half-trillion dollars, which would be used to finance a reduction in the top tax rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent.
 The Bush administration has promised to order a study on the issue, but not until next February.

Complicating Capital Gains
 A series of changes in the tax code since 1997 have made the once simple task of calculating taxes on capital gains -- profits from the sale of assets that have risen in value -- highly complex.
 Depending on one's income, the type of asset, when it was bought and how long it was held and in what type of account, the profit from selling can be tax-free or taxed at 5 percent, 8 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, 18 percent, 20 percent, 25 percent, 31 percent, 33 percent or 35 percent.
 The highest rate would be on an asset owned by someone in the top 1 percent income group who held it for less than a year. The zero rate could apply to any taxpayer, rich or poor, who held the asset in a Roth IRA. 

Prospects for Change
 Professor Slemrod said that one populist approach to simplification would be to eliminate the need for the millions of Americans whose incomes are almost entirely from wages to file tax returns. The government has the income information needed to calculate these Americans' taxes, so long as they take the standard deduction. Of course, this would benefit primarily those who use two tax forms that are already simple: the 1040-EZ and the 1040-A.
 John O. Fox, a retired tax lawyer who teaches a class called ''Winners and Losers: Taxation, Social Justice and Economic Growth'' at Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Mass., said he longed for a return to the simplicity promised by the Reagan administration and its two huge studies of tax reform.
 ''We ought to revisit what Ronald Reagan and the Treasury Department thought about in 1984 and 1985, the most dramatic and compelling case the public has ever heard for real simplification,'' Mr. Fox said. The first study ''said the income tax laws were extremely unfair, that so many special relief provisions existed that taxpayers could not expect that people would pay anywhere near in relation to their ability to pay,'' he said.
 ''The image is that people were rewarded for their abilities not to pay, through such things as huge fringe benefits which were not on your return,'' he added. The special breaks ''destroyed the idea that two families, each with $50,000 on their tax return, would pay taxes that were anything alike,'' Mr. Fox said.
 He favors broadening the tax base so that tax rates can be lowered. He estimates that close to half of all income goes untaxed each year, because individuals can defer tax into the future through devices like retirement savings plans, or avoid them entirely through devices like the Roth IRA. ''The idea is that if we could reduce the tax rates low enough, the inconvenience would be offset by having much lower tax rates on all of your income,'' he said. ''They put a fair amount of this into law in 1986, but since then they have undone every piece of that, just about, through the Clinton and Bush administrations. The focus has been to find areas of concern for specific causes and to incorporate them into the tax laws.''
 Simplification, Mr. Fox said, will not come about until voters ask politicians on the campaign trail hard questions about how the 1986 promise to tax all income morphed into a tax code larded with special-interest tax breaks.
 Mr. Steuerle said that ''the bias against simplification is strong, and history does not provide many examples of success.''
 ''Nonetheless, conventional wisdom on the history lesson may be mistaken,'' he said. ''Simplification gets its turn only during long cycles of deform and reform. Viewed as a cyclical process, the inattention to some principles -- simplification, equal treatment of equals, efficiency -- eventually becomes too great, and there is widespread agreement to switch focus on them.''
 But when it comes to reform, cynics may side with Mr. Bartlett, the veteran Republican tax strategist, whose thinking is more in line with that of the preacher recorded in the biblical book of Ecclesiastes: ''There is no new thing under the sun.''
 ''In the end, probably nothing will be done,'' Mr. Bartlett said. ''I have in my files a study of tax complexity by the Joint Committee on Taxation in 1928. It raises many of the same problems we are still dealing with today.''
14 11


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nina E. Olson, the taxpayer advocate at the Internal Revenue Service, has recommended that the alternative minimum tax be repealed. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Taxation; Law and Legislation; Children and Youth; Tax Deductions; Taxation

COMPANY: ANALYSTS INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%) David Cay Johnston; Bill Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



377 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Syria Frees 130 Prisoners, But Why?

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
The news came, Faris Mourad said, as ''a total surprise.'' For 30 years, he endured life as a political prisoner here, suffering torture, harsh conditions, an untreated disease that curved his spine, permanently and painfully. Then on Jan. 31, along with almost 130 other political prisoners in Syria's police state, he was suddenly freed.
 Syria has still not explained to the nation this act of unexpected clemency toward a handful of perhaps 3,000 such prisoners -- or even acknowledged publicly that it happened. But some human rights officials say it is a sign, if a small and ambiguous one, of the larger pressures Syria is under these days, with more than 100,000 American soldiers next door in Iraq and increasing impatience for change at home. 
 It was the first release of a large number of prisoners since 2001, in the early days of promises by a new, young president, Bashar al-Assad, for greater democracy. 
 ''Time is running out,'' said Haitham al-Maleh, a lawyer and human rights activist who has defended many political prisoners. ''Everything is changing all over the world. The United States is trying to make pressure. The European Union is trying to make pressure.'' 
 And so are Syrian people, if gingerly for fear of a backlash from a state ruled with iron for 30 years by Hafez al-Assad and, since his death in 2000, with something slightly softer by his son, Bashar, 38. Mr. Maleh, for example, has drafted a letter signed by 700 intellectuals, demanding the repeal of the state of emergency in place since 1963. 
 But there is a paradox here that says much about the state of mind around the Middle East: the United States is exerting the most pressure on Syria -- which it accuses of sponsoring terror groups -- and talks loudest about democracy in the region. Yet human rights activists, intellectuals and released prisoners like Mr. Mourad say they distrust America deeply, seeing it working more for its own larger strategic interests than pushing for improvements in civil rights for ordinary Syrians. 
 ''Where is American democracy?'' asked Mr. Mourad, 54, arrested for activity in the Arab Communist Organization and one of the two longest-serving political prisoners. ''Where are American human rights?'' 
 American pressure has focused, in fact, almost wholly on terrorism and the war in Iraq, and on those fronts the pressure has been unrelenting. 
 American and Israeli officials accused Syria last week of resuming shipments of arms to the Lebanese guerrilla group Hezbollah, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell suggested that Syria should take ''a hard look'' at its policies now that it is largely encircled by allies of the United States: Israel, Jordan, Turkey and, since last year, Iraq. 
 The accusation comes as American officials prepare a report on Syria that could lead to economic sanctions as part of the Syria Accountability Act passed by Congress last year. The act demands that Syria cut ties with Hezbollah and Palestinian militant groups fighting Israel, withdraw its nearly 20,000 troops from Lebanon, and close off its border with Iraq to anti-American insurgents. 
 The act does not address the issue of political prisoners. But the European Union has made their freedom part of its negotiations over a new trade agreement with Syria. Mr. Assad faces still others pressures: a soft economy; a surging Islamic community; and many questions about whether Mr. Assad himself is the real power in Syria or, as one intellectual speculated, only ''a point of intersection between factions of power.''
 The workings of the Syrian state -- murky, secretive, with overlapping security services and no real opposition -- is a mystery to most observers, foreign and domestic, so it is hard to say with any precision how exactly Syria is reacting to these many pressures.
 But Walid Moallem, the deputy prime minister and for years Syria's chief negotiator with Israel, cautioned against reading too much into the prisoner release: it was not a sign, he said, of pressure on Syria, though that pressure has been substantial, he conceded. All nations in the region, he argued, are feeling pressure, given that the conflicts in Iraq and Israel are far from settled. 
 Rather, he said, the release showed that the government felt secure enough to free people it had considered a danger to the state. 
 ''It reflects the regime's self-confidence,'' Mr. Moallem said. 
 Many experts on Syria say they believe the prisoner release was partly a gesture to the European Union, in anticipation of the coming signing of the trade pact, and partly to show some movement on reforms to Syrians themselves. And since most of the released prisoners were Islamists, some speculate that the release was a way to create good will with the growing number of observant Muslims in Syria. 
 In all, human rights activists, diplomats and other experts say the prisoner release seems consistent with what they see as other recent steps to ease pressure on several fronts: give a little but make no major changes that could loosen the government's hold on power.
 In recent months Syria has made much of a new willingness to reopen talks with Israel, as a way to show the United States and other nations that it is interested in peace, and last week its foreign minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, repeated that readiness. Reiterating Syria's often-stated view -- an excuse, critics say -- Mr. Moallem said internal reforms were difficult to carry out in the absence of peace with Israel. 
 Yet experts say they have detected little willingness on Syria's part to move on issues that could clear the way for talks, like cutting support for Hezbollah. (It is also true, experts say, that Israel does not appear ready to sit down with Syria, either.) 
 Damascus closed the offices of Hamas and Islamic Jihad, as the United States demanded, but allowed their leaders to remain in Syria. American officials say that it has beefed up security along the Iraq border but that some foreign militants are still crossing into Iraq. Syrian officials say they have done their best but cannot completely control the 370-mile border, much of it desert. 
 Mr. Assad took office encouraging more public discussion and criticism, yet many who attended public forums have been arrested -- including 10 taken during a brief blooming in 2000 and 2001 now known as the ''Damascus Spring.'' 
 Then, out of the blue, came this latest prisoner release. 
 There have been limited releases of prisoners since 1998, while his father was still alive and when Mr. Assad took office in 2000 and quickly freed about 700, then 113 the next year. Others have trickled out of jail since, but nothing like the 130 freed at the end of January.
 Khalil Khayrat, who had spent 30 of his 58 years in prison, seemed as confused as everyone about precisely how this prison release fit into the larger pressures facing Syria. 
 ''They have their own motives,'' said Mr. Khayrat, who was accused of belonging to a rebel Baath wing.
 Out nearly a week, he said he still had not left the house, being too busy greeting visiting well-wishers. Still, he said, he felt a different mood in Syria. ''In the past, I could never speak to you,'' he told a reporter. 
 But he did not think real change would come soon. ''It will be gradual,'' he said. He amended the thought, with slightly more hope, ''Let's make it in between -- not quick, but not slow either.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Faris Mourad, above, spent 30 years in jail as a political prisoner in Syria before he was unexpectedly freed two weeks ago. Khalil Khayrat had seen his 8-year-old granddaughter, Zenaib, only on prison visiting days. (Photographs by Ian Fisher/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TORTURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); TERRORISM (67%); ARMS TRADE (66%); HEZBOLLAH (63%) Freedom and Human Rights; Political Prisoners; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%) Ian Fisher

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%) Syria; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



378 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: A Penny Saved Might Just Cost You an Election

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
IF only American families saved for retirement the way the lagging Democratic candidates are running for president. Whoever takes the oath of office next January, whether President Bush or a Democrat, might then have an easier time dealing with some of the nation's biggest domestic problems. 
 Instead, households and candidates are offering two different lessons in how people can trip themselves up when they face what economists call ''intertemporal choice.'' The rest of us tend to think of such decisions, which are essentially choices between doing something now or later, in terms of aphorisms: ''A penny saved is a penny earned,'' versus ''Do not put off until tomorrow what can be done today.'' 
 For the last month, Democratic candidates other than Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts have been saving their pennies, skipping some primaries to focus their energies on others down the road. Mr. Kerry has benefited from this romanticizing of the future and can move close to the nomination with a victory on Tuesday in Wisconsin, where polls show him comfortably ahead.
 Gen. Wesley K. Clark was the first to fall into the intertemporal trap when he decided to ignore the Iowa caucus, the year's first contest, because he thought he could do better in the second one, in New Hampshire. The move seemed sensible enough at the time, given that the Iowa caucus is an unpredictable process that draws just a sliver of the state's population and that four years ago, Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican, skipped Iowa and then easily won New Hampshire. But General Clark, who had never before run for office, was not a strong enough candidate to survive the lack of attention coming his way in the wake of Iowa. 
 Last week, when a supporter whispered ''I wish you'd gone to Iowa'' to the general after his withdrawal speech, he responded, ''So do I.'' 
 Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina put off until tomorrow what they thought they could not do today in ways that look even more questionable. After Dr. Dean finished second in New Hampshire, his campaign announced that it would barely compete in the next 13 states and focus instead on Wisconsin. Senator Edwards, fresh off a victory in South Carolina almost two weeks ago, bypassed the next race, in Michigan, a state that has been hospitable to Southern populists in the past, to focus on Tennessee and Virginia.
 Money was a factor in all of these decisions. The candidates did not have enough of it to run strong campaigns everywhere. But a belief that a future task would somehow be easier -- and more important -- than any present task also seemed to have played a crucial and damaging role. 
 General Clark is no longer in the race. Senator Edwards, instead of going on the offensive in a region outside of his own and possibly gaining momentum with a strong showing, played defense in Tennessee and Virginia and lost both. Dr. Dean received 4 percent of the vote in Tennessee and looks even less viable than he did two weeks ago.
 When Dr. Dean announced his Wisconsin-or-bust strategy, I began thinking that he would have benefited from having Joe Torre, the New York Yankees manager, among his advisers. Over the last eight baseball seasons, Mr. Torre has shown himself to be something of an intertemporal expert. When the Yankees have been in difficult situations, he has often asked his best pitchers to take on extra duty, realizing that having a tired bullpen in a future game is a better problem than not having any future games. 
 Perhaps the most remarkable part of the candidates' behavior is how much it differs from the way most people balance the present and the future. Traditional economic theory held that people simply acted in their best interest, saving what they needed and spending the rest. But a mountain of recent research has proved what most non-economists already knew: it's hard to say no to a piece of cake sitting in front of you.
 Even if you know that you will later regret eating the cake, you might dig in. Or even if you had no cares about your waistline and someone appeared magically by your side to offer you two slices of cake tomorrow in exchange for the one slice sitting in front of you, you might turn the person down. Delaying gratification is just hard, notes Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology - whether the decision involves spending money or saving it, having a cigarette or quitting, watching one more television show or going to the gym.
 BUT the lack of intertemporal discipline has its consequences. American households now save only about 2 percent of their income, down from almost 10 percent in the 1980's, and the federal government has run up a $521 billion budget deficit. This behavior is likely to require a sharp, and possibly painful, shift in the years ahead, as the nation's growing number of retirees tries to tap its small pool of savings. 
 Deciding that today is more important than tomorrow stops looking so good when tomorrow finally arrives. Deciding that tomorrow is more important than today, on the other hand, hurts somebody's chances of becoming the president who will be faced with those problems.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards of North Carolina campaigning last week in Norfolk, Va. Like other Democratic candidates, he has steered clear of some primaries to save money. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Savings; Finances; Primaries

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) David Leonhardt; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



379 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; On Baseball

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: A Deal Driven by Losing Has the Look of a Winner

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
THE Evil Empire strikes again.
 Except this time it isn't something as relatively minor as Jose Contreras. This is Alex Rodriguez, American League most valuable player, maybe the best player in the game.
 This time it isn't just the Boston Red Sox. It's the Mets, too. Yes, the Mets, the team that seldom gets it right and encounters more ill fortune than the Red Sox, if that's possible. 
 As day turned to night yesterday, the Yankees all but completed a deal to add Rodriguez to their lineup. 
 ''The deal is basically done,'' a baseball official said. ''There are some administrative things to be done to make sure everything is done according to the rules.''
 The Yankees and the Texas Rangers were putting the finishing touches on the economic part of the deal, another person familiar with the talks said. The Rangers, he said, will give the Yankees about $67 million, reducing Rodriguez's average annual payment from the Yankees to about $16 million from $25.5 million.
 The deal, everyone agreed, would gain union approval. 
 It was the union that had killed the Red Sox' attempt to sign Rodriguez earlier this winter, after it determined that the changes Boston wanted to make in his contract would dilute too much of its value for it to adhere to the collective bargaining agreement.
 Now that the Yankees virtually have Rodriguez in pinstripes, the Red Sox will roar. Maybe they won't climb to the top of the Green Monster and scream from the new seats there; maybe they will decide they have no case and scream silently. 
 But they will scream long and loud because not only couldn't they get Rodriguez, whom they viewed as the final weapon in their quest to overcome the Yankees, but now he is set to play for the Yankees against them. 
 Evil Empire? If Larry Lucchino, the Red Sox' president, hadn't uttered the phrase about the Yankees when they beat the Red Sox to Contreras a year ago, he would surely say it now and be justified in his view.
 Then there are the Mets. They had their chance to sign Rodriguez as a free agent three years ago, but they didn't want to spend the money it would have required, then they did a silly dance to rationalize their decision. It was not the Mets' proudest moment, and they have paid dearly for it since.
 The Mets, at the time, were A-Rod's No. 1 choice (he was still pining for the Mets at a recent dinner in New York), but they couldn't run from him quickly enough. They said he would be a 1-and-24 guy, meaning they would have to treat him differently from his 24 teammates. 
 Ask his Rangers teammates about that now. They're going to miss him, and they would be the first to acknowledge it. No one has played harder or more productively for a perennial last-place team.
 Of course, Rodriguez can't wait to flee the Rangers because he has seen the future and it doesn't look any rosier than the recent past. 
 No one should feel sorry for this New York-born 28-year-old. He took the money -- $100 million more than the next highest offer -- and had to accept the consequences.
 But three years of last-place finishes were enough. Rodriguez was so eager to leave Texas for a team with a chance to win that he was willing to reduce the value of his contract. More telling, he is willing to play third base, leaving his position, shortstop, to his friend but fierce rival Derek Jeter.
 The position change is just a little more significant and intriguing than the willingness of Jose Reyes to move to second base for the Mets and let Kazuo Matsui, the Japanese import, play short.
 This is an M.V.P., an All-Star, a better defensive player than the man he will play alongside, relinquishing his position to have a chance to play in the postseason, to win the World Series. In Texas, he was light-years from that goal; with the Yankees, he is virtually guaranteed at least the first half of that goal.
 With Rodriguez, the Yankees may achieve the goal that has eluded them the past three years. Their failure to win the World Series in those years has not made George Steinbrenner, the team's principal owner, happy.
 As a result, the popular perception has been that Steinbrenner made all of the Yankees' personnel decisions this off-season himself. People who work for him, speaking on condition they or their positions not be identified, dispute that view, especially where the pitching moves were concerned. 
 ''He was very upset about losing,'' said one member of the organization. ''He wanted to win. But he calmed down and let the baseball people take control, especially with the pitching.''
 Another person said, ''He listened to some people.''
 When the off-season began, according to those who were interviewed, the baseball staff ranked the pitchers who were available, either in trades or as free agents: Javier Vazquez, Kevin Brown, Bartolo Colon, Curt Schilling, Andy Pettitte.
 Pettitte was last on the list of the baseball people. The Yankees tried to sign him, but they waited too long and he escaped to Houston. But they did trade for Vazquez and Brown, dumping Jeff Weaver in the process. Everybody wanted to get rid of the disappointing Weaver, one of the people interviewed said. 
 Until the sudden Rodriguez development, Gary Sheffield was the major hitting addition. A Tampa native and resident, Sheffield was the decision of the Tampa half of the Yankees' hierarchy. 
 Tampa generally prevails when it disagrees with New York, because Steinbrenner is Tampa.
 Briefly, when the Sheffield negotiations appeared to be collapsing over the deferred money in the three-year, $39 million deal, the Yankees considered Vladimir Guerrero. But Tampa wanted Sheffield.
 Tampa wanted Kenny Lofton, too. 
 Steinbrenner decreed that the Yankees needed a center fielder and prototypical leadoff hitter. He identified the 36-year-old Lofton as that player. 
 ''That came directly from Tampa,'' said a member of the Yankees family. ''Everybody in New York was dead opposed to it.''
 Steinbrenner wasn't alone in Tampa in his desire to sign Lofton. Billy Connors and Bill Emslie wanted him, too. Connors, a former pitcher, is vice president for player personnel and a longtime Steinbrenner baseball confidant. Emslie, a former umpire, is a member of the Yankees' professional scouting staff who gained credibility with Steinbrenner by pushing to sign David Ortiz a year ago.
 The Yankees didn't sign Ortiz, a free agent, but the Red Sox did, and he had a terrific season (he had the league's third-fattest slugging percentage), so terrific that after the season Steinbrenner used it against his general manager, Brian Cashman.
 So when Emslie, among others, endorsed the signing of Lofton, there was no stopping Steinbrenner. Bernie Williams, long an overrated defensive outfielder, would be moved out of center to designated hitter, and Lofton would play center and lead off, even though he appeared to be far shakier than Williams before a revival in the second half of last season.
 The Yankees' latest foray has not been a Steinbrenner orchestration. Cashman initiated talks with the Rangers about Rodriguez, and Steinbrenner needed only to approve what was just another expenditure.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alex Rodriguez, above, will move from shortstop to third base for the Yankees. Second baseman Alfonso Soriano, right, was an All-Star the past two seasons. (Photographs by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (51%) Baseball; World Series; Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (93%); TEXAS RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK METS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%) Texas Rangers; New York Yankees

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (92%) Murray Chass; Alex Rodriguez; George Steinbrenner

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



380 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Why Your Job Isn't Moving to Bangalore

BYLINE: By Jagdish Bhagwati. 
Jagdish Bhagwati, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and professor at Columbia University, is author of ''In Defense of Globalization.''

 BODY:
Greg Mankiw, head of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, has been widely criticized for telling reporters the simple truth that ''outsourcing'' of jobs is beneficial to the United States economy (even though he hedged his comment with a ''perhaps''). John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, described executives who import services -- such as using lower-paid workers in foreign countries to handle customer-service calls and Internet queries from American consumers -- as ''Benedict Arnold C.E.O.'s.'' 
 In objecting to moving service jobs overseas, Senator Kerry is wrong on two counts. First, his economics is faulty: the practice only adds to the overall economic pie and improves the competitiveness of American companies. In a world economy, firms that forgo cheaper supplies of services are doomed to lose markets, and hence production. And companies that die out, of course, do not employ people. 
 Second, Mr. Kerry is making a political error. By playing to the understandable but incorrect fears of American workers that outsourcing is ''taking away'' jobs from Americans, he is painting the Democratic Party into the wrong corner on trade issues. 
 As Bill Clinton showed the country, there is a way for politicians -- even Democrats -- to explain the benefits of free trade. They could start by explaining that service imports fall broadly into two types. The first is made up of the simple, labor-intensive services like answering complaints, solving basic computer problems by taking customers through defined steps on the phone, or interpreting results of routine medical tests. 
 Putting these jobs overseas is, in economic terms, no different than importing labor-intensive textiles and other goods. In the 1980's and 90's, labor unions warned that imported cheap goods from the Far East would depress our wages and labor standards. But, as virtually any economist who has studied the empirical evidence of the last two decades knows, the overwhelming cause of wage stagnation in manufacturing has been automation within America, not pressure from cheaper imports. The same dynamic applies today -- with the technological change affecting service jobs rather than manufacturing. 
 The second, newer type of outsourcing involves American companies that do highly skilled research and development work abroad. Craig Barrett, chief executive of Intel, has said that American workers face the prospect of 300 million well-educated people in India, China and Russia who can ''do effectively any job that can be done in the United States.'' But such concerns seem exaggerated. There is little evidence of a major push by American companies to set up research operations in the developing world. I have taught hundreds of fine foreign students in the last few years, but only a small fraction are at the level of proficiency that Intel looks for in its research programs. And a cursory look at American immigration shows that the best students in high-tech fields come from just a handful of world-class institutions in those countries.
 Unfortunately, the issue is further confused by claims that American jobs are being ''transferred'' abroad. This is usually not the case. When I came to my university 25 years ago, I got a secretary. Today, the new hires get a computer instead. In India, where a secretary costs a small fraction of what one would in New York City but a computer costs more, any Indian professor who asked for a new laptop would probably get a secretary instead. It is simply a matter of economic reality in both places. The hiring of the secretary in India should not be seen as ''transferring'' a job out of New York. 
 The fact is, when jobs disappear in America it is usually because technical change has destroyed them, not because they have gone anywhere. In the end, Americans' increasing dependence on an ever-widening array of technology will create a flood of high-paying jobs requiring hands-on technicians, not disembodied voices from the other side of the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) United States Economy; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Science and Technology; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%) Council of Economic Advisers

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Jagdish Bhagwati; N Gregory Mankiw; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



381 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: The Thief Of Baghdad

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In the Ford White House, Dick Cheney's Secret Service name was Backseat, because he was the model of an unobtrusive staffer, the perfect unflashy deputy chief of staff for that lord of the bureaucratic dance, Donald Rumsfeld.
 As James Mann writes in his new book, ''The Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet,'' Mr. Cheney started out supervising such lowly matters as fixing a stopped-up drain in a White House bathroom sink; getting a headrest for Betty Ford's helicopter seat; and sorting out which salt shakers -- the regular ones or, as he put it, the ''little dishes of salt with funny little spoons'' -- would be best for stag dinners in the president's private quarters.
 Rummy's alter ego rose quickly, though, because he seemed to have no ego. Good old Dick could be counted on to be the man behind the man, a butler to power. The new President Bush, a tabula rasa in foreign affairs, put himself in Mr. Cheney's hands. 
 But W. had barely settled into the Oval when Backseat clambered into the front seat. Retracing the rush to war, the names Cheney and Chalabi are entwined in bold relief.
 Back when Dick Cheney was fiddling with salt shakers, Ahmad Chalabi, a smooth-talking and wealthy young Iraqi M.I.T. graduate, was founding the Petra Bank in Jordan.
 As Mr. Cheney moved up in the capital, Mr. Chalabi was tripped up in Jordan by a small matter of embezzlement from his own bank. Jordanian officials have said that the crime rocked their economy and that they paid $300 million to depositors to cover the bank's losses. By the time Mr. Chalabi was convicted and received a sentence of 22 years of hard labor, he was a fugitive in London.
 During the early 90's, when Mr. Cheney was a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, Mr. Chalabi was in a full courtship press with Washington's conservative and journalistic elites. He saw them as a springboard for his triumphant return to Iraq.
 After 9/11, his passionate desire to take out Saddam coincided with that of conservatives. All they needed for their belli was a casus, so Mr. Chalabi obligingly conned the neocons.
 He hoodwinked his pals Dick Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle into believing Iraq would be a flowery cakewalk to democracy.
 A wily expert in the politics of the bazaar, he knew he had to sell his scheme on what was good for Americans and their security. He was happy to funnel information to the vice president that painted a picture of Saddam hunkered on a hair-raising stockpile of W.M.D. His group, the Iraqi National Congress, tried to spin our government and media through its ''information collection program.'' Intelligence officials now say that the prewar information provided to Washington by this group was suspect and useless, even disinformation.
 But here's the wild thing: the propaganda program was underwritten by U.S. government funds. So Americans paid Ahmad Chalabi to gull them into a war that is costing them a billion a week -- and a precious human cost. Cops dealing with their snitches check out the information better than the Bush administration did.
 Mr. Chalabi's seances swayed the political set, the intelligence set and the journalistic set. In an effect Senator Bob Graham dubs ''incestuous amplification,'' the bogus stories spewed by Iraqi exiles and defectors ricocheted through an echo chamber of government and media, making it sound as if multiple, reliable sources were corroborating the same story. Rather, one self-interested source was replicating like computer spam.
 The C.I.A. was stung to find out its analysts had mistakenly thought that Iraq weapons information had been confirmed by multiple sources, when it came from only a single source; that analysts had relied on a fabricating Iraqi defector and spin material from Iraqi exiles; and that this blather made its way into documents and speeches used by the Bush administration to justify war. George Tenet ordered a major change in procedure last week, removing barricades so that analysts can know more about the identities of clandestine agents' sources, and their possible motives.
 But even incestuous amplification could not have drowned out reality if Bush officials had not glommed onto the Chalabi flummery for their own reasons -- to feed their fantasies about refashioning America's power, psyche and military, and making over the Middle East in our image.
 Swept up in big dreams, the foreign policy dream team became dupes in Ahmad Chalabi's big con. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); BUDGETS (69%); SENTENCING (68%); CONSERVATISM (66%); EMBEZZLEMENT (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush; Ahmad Chalabi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (93%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



382 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: Many New Causes for Old Problem of Jobs Lost Abroad

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, N. Gregory Mankiw, stepped forcefully last week into an issue that has touched off an escalating, often strident, political debate: the migration of jobs, ranging from call center operators to computer programmers, to lower-cost countries like China and India.
 The movement, known as offshore outsourcing, is growing, Mr. Mankiw acknowledged. But he said it was ''just a new way of doing international trade'' and ''a good thing'' that would make the American economy more efficient and would free American workers to eventually get better jobs.
 History suggests that Mr. Mankiw may be right. The American economy has adapted to unsettling new waves of competition in the past. 
 Still, many industry executives, analysts and academics -- not distraught American workers alone -- say the nature of the economic challenge appears to be fundamentally different this time.
 The differences, they say, include the kinds of jobs affected by outsourcing, the number of jobs potentially at risk and the politics of developing an effective policy response.
 Globalization and technology are amplifying the impact of outsourcing. For decades, American foreign policy has been to urge developing nations and Communist countries to join the global economy in earnest. Now they have, and vast numbers of skilled workers have joined the world labor force, seemingly overnight. Countries like China, India and Russia educate large numbers of engineers. Add the low-cost, nearly instantaneous communication afforded by the Internet, and an Indian computer programmer making $20,000 a year or less can replace an American programmer making $80,000 a year or more.
 ''The structure of the world has changed,'' said Craig R. Barrett, chief executive of Intel, the Silicon Valley company that is the world's leading computer chip maker. ''The U.S. no longer has a lock on high-tech, white-collar jobs.''
 But that does not mean that such jobs are about to disappear from the United States. Statistics on the current job flight are estimates. Forrester Research in a frequently cited study, predicted in late 2002 that 3.3 million services jobs in America would move offshore by 2015, about 500,000 of them in computer software and services.
 For all the alarm that report generated, a shift of that size over the next 11 years would be small, given that the American labor force has more than 130 million workers and normally creates and destroys millions of jobs every few months. 
 Many American workers are worried that outsourcing is just beginning, and they fear that in an information-age economy all kinds of jobs are potentially at risk. Not only anxious workers in the United States take that view. Nandan Nilekani, chief executive of Infosys Technologies, an Indian outsourcing company, declared at the World Economic Forum last month, ''Everything you can send down a wire is up for grabs.''
 Another difference, some analysts say, is that during the 1980's, the interests of American workers and companies were more closely linked than they are today. From 1984 to 1986, the American semiconductor industry lost $4 billion and shed 50,000 jobs in the United States. 
 ''But now, it is the workers who are suffering and not the companies,'' said Ronil Hira, an assistant professor for public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology. ''The companies outsourcing jobs overseas are profitable and mostly gaining market share. There's no gun to their head this time, no real motivation to address the issue.''
 Beyond jobs shifted, the broader impact may be to put pressure on the wages of many technical workers in the United States, who increasingly live under the shadow of foreign competition. 
 Chris Neustrup, a software engineer from Walnut Creek, Calif., has seen every boom and bust in Silicon Valley since he graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1969. As a seasoned programmer-for-hire, who constantly kept adding to his portfolio of skills, Mr. Neustrup was never out of work for long, and in good years he routinely made $100,000 or more.
 But this time, he said, it was different. After 25 months without work, Mr. Neustrup was hired two weeks ago by Emanio, a private software company in Berkeley. The pay is less than he used to make, but he counts himself lucky in this job market. His experience is part of a picture that puzzles economists and policy makers. The economy is growing nicely, corporate profits are rising, and yet job growth remains frustratingly sluggish, even among skilled workers. Some politicians and labor advocates say offshore outsourcing is a betrayal of American workers and support bills to curb it.
 Mr. Neustrup, who lives with the turmoil in the high-tech job market, takes a more balanced view. ''It's great for these developing countries to move up and adopt this technology,'' he said. ''The trouble for us in the U.S. is that we're at the top of the ladder getting squeezed. And I'm not sure there is a good answer.''
 The heat of the political debate over outsourcing keeps rising. State and federal bills that would limit the flow of jobs abroad have proliferated. Senator John Kerry, the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, castigates ''Benedict Arnold companies and C.E.O.'s'' for moving jobs overseas. Last November, Indiana pulled out of a $15 million contract with an Indian company to provide technology services because of objections to outsourcing. The National Foundation for American Policy, a research group, says 30 bills are pending in 20 states to curb the use of offshore contractors by state and local governments.
 Senator Kerry introduced federal legislation last November that would require call center operators to disclose where they are located. 
 The Senate recently passed a bill sponsored by Republican Senators Craig Thomas of Wyoming and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, that prohibits the use of offshore workers on some government jobs. The House has not voted on any similar bill. 
 These steps, some economists warn, are part of a misguided drift toward protectionism that would increase costs to consumers, make American businesses less competitive and risk more trade conflict.
 ''This anxiety about outsourcing is not a bad thing, as long as it forces you to make the right choices,'' said Jagdish N. Bhagwati, a professor of economics at Columbia University. ''You have to move on and upgrade your skills. We have no choice. And America, as probably the most innovative society in the world, does a pretty good job of it.'' 
 That process has begun, as companies and people enhance their skills. The result is new hiring, even as other jobs move offshore. Intel has added 1,000 software engineers in China and India in the last two years, but it has added even greater numbers in the United States. 
 I.B.M., the world's largest computer company, is also doing both. The company says it plans to transfer 3,000 jobs overseas, many of them white-collar jobs like computer programmer. But I.B.M. also says it intends to add 4,500 employees this year in the United States, including programmers and software designers with specialized skills. 
 The people in demand, says Hershel Harris, vice president for strategy in I.B.M.'s software unit, are those who are fluent in technology and in how technology can be applied to solve problems in particular fields of business or science.
 Mary Trombley, 27, was hired last year by the I.B.M. software group as an engineer in San Jose, Calif. She was an English major at the University of Michigan, which she attended from 1994 to 1998, making her part of the first generation of college students with wide-open access to the Internet. She got enough of a taste for technology that she decided to change course. ''It looked exciting and I jumped in,'' she said. 
 At I.B.M., she is a ''human factors engineer'' who helps tailor software tools for companies in the life sciences, retailing and financial services industries so they can more easily sift through vast databases to quickly mine useful nuggets of information. She works with programming languages, C++ and Java, but her main focus is a level above the code itself. ''It's understanding a customer's needs and business strategy, and then translating that into solutions,'' Ms. Trombley explained. 
 After two years of slight declines, the number of professional software developers rose in the United States last year to 2.35 million, according to IDC, a research company. Today, America has more than four times as many software developers as India, and nearly seven times as many as China. But the recent growth rate, and projected growth, is far higher in those well-educated, developing nations. The United States is continuing to add high-skill jobs, like Ms. Trombley's, but others are being lost. 
 Maintaining and upgrading older software on mainframe computers is the kind of job at risk from offshore outsourcing. James Fusco, a mainframe programmer from East Brunswick N.J., worked for AT&T for 13 years. In 1999, seeking to cut costs, the company farmed out much of its data center operations to I.B.M.'s global services unit. Mr. Fusco and his coworkers showed up at the same offices in New Jersey, but suddenly they were I.B.M. employees. Their work, improving and updating mainframe billing and marketing applications, was the same, but one project after another was handed off to programmers in India and Canada. In May 2002, Mr. Fusco and many of his colleagues were laid off, their jobs casualties of outsourcing.
 ''We were not treated like real I.B.M. employees,'' Mr. Fusco said. ''No attempt was made to retrain us to help us get other jobs.''
 Mr. Fusco is one of the plaintiffs in a class-action suit against the Department of Labor that seeks to extend the government's trade adjustment assistance program, dating to the 1960's and most recently revised in 2002, to software programmers. The plaintiffs have been told by the Labor Department that, because software is not a tangible ''article,'' they do not qualify for financial assistance and retraining for jobs lost to foreign competition, as manufacturing workers do. Efforts are under way in Congress to change the law.
 But even those who joined the class-action suit do not seem to resent the foreign workers who are doing their jobs. ''I loved my job and I was good at it,'' said Ron Beyer, 54, a senior programmer from near Gun Barrel, Tex., who made $80,000 a year. ''But it's time to move on, and find something else, something that can't move offshore.''
 Mr. Fusco, 50, found a job last November as a systems administrator at a small company in New Jersey, at a pay cut from the $65,000 salary he earned at I.B.M. With the federal assistance and retraining he is seeking, Mr. Fusco said he might consider training for another field.
 ''A year ago, I would have gone for newer computer skills,'' he explained. ''But I'm not sure that programming is a smart thing to get back into. It can be done remotely.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Fusco, a mainframe programmer from East Brunswick, N.J., lost his job at I.B.M. to outsourcing. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)Chart: ''Going Global''Despite a faster growth rate in India and China, the number of software jobs in the United States is still expected to rise.Graph tracks software developer jobs in India, China, and the United States from 1998-2007. (2004-2007 projections)(Source by IDC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); OFFSHORING (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MICROPROCESSORS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (57%); CALL CENTERS (57%) Labor; Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Protectionism (Trade); United States Economy; Law and Legislation; Labor; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (84%); INTEL CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%) Council of Economic Advisers

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (84%); INFY (NYSE) (84%); INFY (NSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Steve Lohr; N Gregory Mankiw; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



383 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Swift & Company Cuts the Production Of Beef at 2 Plants

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Swift & Company, the third-largest producer of American beef, said Friday that it would temporarily reduce production in Colorado and Nebraska because of a slowdown in business after cases of mad cow disease in Canada and the United States.
 The second shift at plants in Greeley, Colo., and Grand Island, Neb., will be suspended for a week starting tomorrow, the company based in Greeley said in a statement. 
Each plant employs 2,600 to 2,700 workers.
 More than 40 countries banned beef from the United States after the country's first mad cow case in history was reported on Dec. 23. DNA tests show the cow came from Canada, which discovered its own mad cow case in May. Export bans prevented Swift from buying lower-priced cattle from Canada and hurt the company's sales outside the United States.
 ''Given the current economics of the U.S. beef industry, domestic processors must make difficult decisions to protect their operations,'' John Simons, the chief executive, said in the statement.
 Cargill Inc.'s meat processing unit based in Wichita, Kan., Excel Corporation, the second-largest beef processor behind Tyson Foods Inc., said last month that it would cut about 700 jobs at five beef-processing plants.
 The federal Department of Agriculture slashed its projection for American beef exports this year to 220 million pounds, the lowest since 1980, down from 2.62 billion pounds a month earlier. Beef exports are valued at about $3.8 billion a year.
 Japan, Korea and Mexico, the largest importers of American beef, suspended imports after the disclosure that a dairy cow in Washington State had mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (93%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (92%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (92%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (92%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MEATS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (74%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); DNA (55%); DNA TESTING (55%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Meat; Mad Cow Disease (Boivine Spongiform Encephalopathy; Cattle; Production; International Trade and World Market; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Livestock

COMPANY: SWIFT & CO (93%); CARGILL INC (69%); CARGILL MEAT SOLUTIONS CORP (68%); TYSON FOODS INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Swift & Co; Agriculture Department (US)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311119 OTHER ANIMAL FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); SIC5153 GRAIN & FIELD BEANS (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (69%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (68%); SIC5147 MEAT & MEAT PRODUCTS (68%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (68%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (68%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Colorado; Nebraska; Canada

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004



384 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: A Shade of Green: S.U.V.'s Try to Soften Image

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
Can the sport utility vehicle, the bete noire of environmental advocates, be reinvented as a green machine? 
 This year, Ford and Toyota plan to sell the first two hybrid sport utility vehicles. With carlike mileage expected, the advent of the hybrid S.U.V. may change the uniformly visceral antipathy to sport utility vehicles among environmental advocates, even if automakers are unlikely to sell enough hybrids to significantly reduce fuel consumption or pollution any time soon. 
 ''I would definitely encourage people who need four-wheel-drive vehicles to look at these,'' said the Rev. Jim Ball, the president of the Evangelical Environmental Network, a small group that sponsored a widely publicized grass-roots campaign called ''What Would Jesus Drive?'' 
 ''These vehicles are one small step,'' he added, ''but we've got a long way to go here.'' 
 The Toyota and Ford hybrids, which will be 2005 models, supplement the internal combustion engine with an electric motor that takes over at slow speeds and at stoplights, a switch that they say can help S.U.V.'s get 27 to 40 miles a gallon.
 The Ford Motor Company is scheduled to introduce the first of the hybrids, a version of its Escape sport utility, by the end of summer. In November or December, Toyota will follow with a hybrid version of its Lexus RX330 sport utility, the RX400h; it plans to introduce early next year a hybrid version of its Highlander S.U.V. The hybrid versions will be more expensive than the conventional models, though neither company has yet said by how much.
 From a consumer's perspective, hybrids are not much different from conventional cars. They run on regular gasoline, and the batteries for their electric motors are recharged as they drive, so they do not need to be plugged in. One consideration is that battery, which would be costly to replace if it were to fail; most, however, are under warranty for at least eight years. 
 Because the biggest gas savings occur at slow speeds, hybrids sometimes disappoint customers who spend much of their time on highways. That is borne out in Ford's projections for the Escape hybrid: the front-wheel-drive version will average 35 to 40 m.p.g. in the city, about twice the 19 m.p.g. for the Escape that runs on gasoline only. In highway driving, however, the Escape hybrid will get 29 to 31 m.p.g., about 20 percent better than the 25 m.p.g. for the gasoline version.
 Environmental advocates frustrated by the long-swelling appetite for gas have embraced hybrids. Booming sales of sport utility vehicles and big pickup trucks, coupled with increasing horsepower for vehicles big and small, have stalled advances in overall fuel efficiency. 
 In the 2002 model year, the fuel economy of the average new light-duty vehicle sold in the United States sank to its lowest point in more than two decades, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Cars averaged 24.4 m.p.g. and S.U.V.'s 17.3 m.p.g. And that data understates the mileage gap, because the heaviest sport utilities with the worst fuel economy, like Hummers and Ford Excursions, are not counted. They are so big that they do not fit the definition of a passenger vehicle.
 S.U.V.'s have also been widely criticized as unsafe. Because they are heavy and have high ground clearance, they are typically less stable and can inflict more damage on passenger cars in collisions than other cars do. These problems are being addressed to varying degrees by the industry; the Lexus S.U.V., for example, comes with electronic suspension-control technology that is intended to reduce rollover risk.
 ''We fight S.U.V.'s because it is irresponsible to make vehicles that guzzle, pollute and are unsafe,'' said Dan Becker, a global warming specialist at the Sierra Club. ''But the auto companies have the technology to fix these problems, and if they do, acceptance of S.U.V.'s will improve.''
 So far, hybrids have not made much of a dent in fuel economy trends. For several years, Toyota and Honda have been the only automakers selling hybrids, and they sell just tens of thousands in the United States, a country with annual sales of 17 million vehicles. Toyota, however, has said it plans to be selling two million hybrids a year, worldwide, in a decade. The company now sells only the Prius in the United States. 
 By 2015, 60 percent of the vehicles sold nationwide would have to be hybrids just to stop the growth of automotive global warming emissions beyond levels expected at the end of this decade. That is according to a projection by David Friedman, research director for the clean vehicles program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental research and advocacy group in Cambridge, Mass.
 Financial analysts have estimated that hybrids are more likely to account for as much as 10 percent to 15 percent of the market over the next decade or so.
 ''If hybrids just end up as a niche vehicle,'' Mr. Friedman said, ''they really won't have an impact on the environment and global warming. Millions of these vehicles have to be sold every year.'' 
 But he says he thinks less ambitious technologies would also be a good option. He recently collaborated on ''a blueprint for a better S.U.V.,'' a report that laid out a design for a more fuel-efficient and less rollover-prone vehicle that used less-expensive technologies than hybrid systems. Many skeptics view hybrid power as an inherently profit-sapping technology because it involves two drive systems instead of one, though Toyota insists its hybrids are already profitable. 
 ''I'm just not a blind monk of hybrid technology,'' the chief executive of Nissan, Carlos Ghosn, said last month. Nissan will offer a hybrid version of its Altima sedan in 2006. 
 The industry is struggling to decide which of three technologies has the most potential to cut fuel consumption: hybrids, advanced diesels or hydrogen fuel cells. The two vehicles to be introduced this year will present hybrid S.U.V.'s in different packages: the Escape is a basic, no-frills sport utility that starts around $20,000 with a conventional engine, about $15,000 less than a conventionally powered Lexus, a luxury vehicle. Hybrids have, in the past, cost a few thousand dollars more than similar cars, though the new midsize Toyota Prius starts at about the same price as the midsize Toyota Camry. Fuel savings can make up for the high purchase price over time; there are modest tax deductions and Congress appears close to offering more. 
 One feature of the Toyota Prius is a screen with a video readout that charts fuel economy as driving conditions shift. Ford will offer a similar feature as an option. The Lexus will make it a standard feature, as it is on the Prius, and will also use the screen to display the view from a rear-facing camera to make backing up easier. 
 Toyota, which has years of experience in the hybrid game, will pitch the Lexus RX400h as a combination of virtue and muscle. Its V-6 engine (the Escape is a four-cylinder) has 270 horsepower, 20 percent more than the Lexus RX330. 
 ''Lexus buyers wanted a hybrid, but they didn't want to be in a vehicle that was recognized as such,'' a Lexus spokesman, Bill Ussery, said. He said about 1,500 people had already put down deposits. 
 Ford, as the world's third automaker to sell a hybrid, hopes to carve out a spot between Toyota and Honda and the rest of the industry. The Escape also offers a very visible vehicle to begin to deliver on the desire of William Clay Ford Jr., chairman and chief executive, to be seen as both an environmentalist and an industrialist. 
 And the company hopes to capture some of Toyota and Honda's green buzz. Ford executives said more than 21,000 people have signed up to receive a quarterly e-mail newsletter about the vehicle. Corey Holter, the marketing manager for the Escape, said that ''77 percent are non-Ford drivers.'' 
 ''That's a great story for us, because it shows we really are attracting incremental business,'' Mr. Holter said. ''It will provide a halo to the entire Ford division.''
 The Escape hybrid has been talked about for several years, and has been previously delayed, but the company has been emphatic that it will be on the road this summer. 
 Jeff Young of Chicago was one of the 21,000 people who signed up for Ford's e-mail newsletter. He is a co-owner of a business that makes hand carts used for gardening. Since he bought a Chrysler in the mid-1980's, Mr. Young, 40, has not owned an American car.
 ''The parts don't fit right. The materials are cheaper. They tend to break down more and generally the styling lags behind the imports,'' he said. But he sent an e-mail message to Ford in 2002 because he had heard that the Escape hybrid would be coming in 2003, as was originally planned. When it did not materialize, he leased a Honda Element S.U.V. instead. But his lease is up in 2006, and he said he would consider a hybrid S.U.V. then. 
 ''I'm not to the far extreme of either side,'' he said. ''But if you can do something like this hybrid technology, where there's not much compromise, then it can do a lot to help.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photo: ''Less Filling''Later this year, Ford and Toyota plan to begin selling sport utility vehicles that use hybrid systems, which combine a gasoline engine with an electric motor to improve fuel efficiency. Ford's hybrid version of the Escape, shown here, is expected to have fuel economy as good as, or better than, cars.FRONT-WHEEL-DRIVE MODELSFUEL ECONOMY:CITY2004 ESCAPE V-6: 19 M.P.G.ESCAPE HYBRID (4-CYLINDER PROJECTED): 35-40 M.P.G.HIGHWAY2004 ESCAPE V-6: 25 M.P.G.ESCAPE HYBRID (4-CYLINDER PROJECTED): 29-31 M.P.G.FOUR-WHEEL-DRIVE MODELSCITY2004 ESCAPE V-6: 18 M.P.G.ESCAPE HYBRID (4-CYLINDER PROJECTED): 31-34 M.P.G.HIGHWAY2004 ESCAPE V-6: 23 M.P.G.ESCAPE HYBRID (4-CYLINDER PROJECTED): 26-28 M.P.G.(Source by Ford Motor Company)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); RELIGION (69%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (63%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks ; Fuel Efficiency; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004



385 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Bird Flu Outbreak Has Farmers Jittery

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: HARRINGTON, Del., Feb. 13 

 BODY:
These are fearful days in the birthplace of America's chicken industry. 
 Like a medieval plague that appears without warning and spreads with speed, an avian flu has infected two chicken farms near here, threatening to cut a deadly swath through the most valuable agricultural industry in Delaware and Maryland.
 Though no new cases have been detected since the second of the two outbreaks was identified on Feb. 9, state officials are still testing scores of farms within six miles of the two affected farms, concerned that the virus has been spread by migrating geese, air currents or even farmers themselves.
 The influenza strain, known as H7, is not a danger to humans, and is not even particularly deadly for chickens. But if allowed to spread, health experts say, it can mutate into a more virulent strain for animals. Consequently, the state typically orders entire flocks destroyed when even a single bird becomes infected. 
 So far, nearly 86,000 birds at the two farms have been killed, a tiny fraction of the 576 million chickens raised last year on the Chesapeake Bay's eastern shore. But if the virus spreads widely, it could cause devastating economic losses to this griddle-flat peninsula, which encompasses southern Delaware, eastern Maryland and a tiny piece of Virginia. (Hence its nickname, Delmarva.)
 ''To get a disease in here that you can't cure, that you can't vaccinate for, well, that could cause the destruction of millions of birds worth hundreds of millions of dollars,'' said Vance Phillips, 41, a chicken farmer in Sussex County, Del., which produces more chickens than any other county in America. ''For a rural community, that's a pretty tough hit to take.''
 Delaware officials say a slow response to an avian flu outbreak in the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia two years ago may have contributed to the rapid spread of the disease, which caused the destruction of more than four million chickens and turkeys worth $130 million.
 Outbreaks of avian flu have also been reported recently in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Officials in both states say they pose no threat.
 The chicken industry is to Delmarva what Wall Street is to Manhattan or steel once was to Pittsburgh. There are 2,000 chicken farmers on the peninsula, who last year generated $1.5 billion in sales. An additional 14,000 people work in chicken processing plants run by four major companies: Perdue Farms, Allen Family Foods, Mountaire Farms and Tyson Foods. Chicken farming accounts for more than a third of Maryland's agricultural income, and more than two-thirds of Delaware's.
 The virus identified in Delaware is a different strain from the H5N1 virus in Asia, which has caused the slaughter of millions of birds there and killed at least 18 people in Thailand and Vietnam. Though both strains are carried by chickens, officials say the H7 strain has never been known to affect humans.
 The outbreak has not been serious, yet. But because of it, 14 countries, including China, Mexico and Brazil, have banned imports of chickens from Delaware -- and, in some cases, from all of the United States. Foreign exports account for about 7 percent of Delmarva's chicken sales.
 For that reason, the state and the industry moved rapidly to contain the outbreak as soon as the first report of infection was confirmed at a small independent farm in Harrington on Feb. 6. The farm's 12,000 chickens were destroyed and farms within two miles were quarantined.
 For three days, officials thought the outbreak was over. But on Feb. 9, the virus was detected in a flock in Greenwood, Del., five miles away, and real fear set in. This was a first: the flock was owned by Perdue, and no commercial farm in Delaware had ever been infected by avian influenza before. (The vast majority of the peninsula's chicken farmers work for the major processing companies, which scrupulously tend to their flocks to prevent flu infections.)
 The farm's 73,800 birds were quickly destroyed and the quarantine was extended to six miles around the two farms, an area covering about 80 farms. Life immediately became strange for chicken farmers. 
 These days, farmers wait by their televisions and radios each day for reports on whether new outbreaks have been found. ''It's kind of jittery, like right after 9/11,'' said a man named Johnny at a farm equipment store in town.
 The virus can be carried on shoes, clothing, hair, tires and just about anything else that moves. To avoid its spread, farmers in the quarantine area have been told to keep people off their property and to avoid congregating with other farmers. Auctions, church dinners and monthly farm group meetings have been canceled. Equipment repairmen and chicken inspectors have stopped visiting farms.
 The quarantine could last three to four more weeks, even if no new infections are discovered, officials said.
 When fuel or feed delivery trucks do come to farms, they are accompanied by decontamination teams that spray down their wheels and undercarriages with disinfectant. When farmers do go into town, they are asked to wash their hair, change their clothes and disinfect their tires first.
 Adding to the surreal quality of the quarantine, health officials in white biohazard suits have arrived in government-issue vans, stopping to draw blood from sample chicken carcasses that farmers leave in roadside containers. 
 ''It's pretty weird,'' said Louise Messick, 68, who runs a chicken farm with her husband, Bill, 69, half a mile from the original outbreak. ''Everyone is scared right now.''
 Bill Messick has gone into town just once since last weekend. But he considers himself one of the lucky ones: his chickens tested negative, and he was able to send 56,000 seven-week-old birds to the processing plant on Friday. 
 ''We can't go nowhere and no one can come in,'' he said from the edge of his property. 
 In Harrington, gas stations, restaurants and grocery stores are reporting drop-offs in business as farmers stay home. At Peoples Restaurant on Clark Street, Irene Layton, one of the owners, said customers had even stopped ordering her famous chicken dishes out of misguided fears that they could catch the virus. 
 ''I had one woman tell me she wasn't feeling well and thought she had caught the bird flu while driving through the area,'' Mrs. Layton said. 
 It is widely believed that the chicken industry was born on the Delmarva peninsula, when Mrs. Wilmer Steele discovered in 1923 that she could make more money selling chickens than eggs. The Perdue family got its start here, and the company's headquarters is still in Salisbury, Md. 
 Health officials say they believe the original Delaware infection came from a live animal market in New York City. Commercial farmers do not sell at the live markets, which are known as breeding grounds for disease, but independent farmers frequently do. Live markets are also thought to be the source of recent avian flu outbreaks in New Jersey. 
 For that reason, farmers and commercial processors say they may push for regulations to clean up the live markets once the current outbreak is contained. 
 ''When we talk about avian influenza on this peninsula, people pay attention,'' said Bill Satterfield, executive director of Delmarva Poultry Industry Inc., a trade group. ''Nobody wants to be the guy who spread it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The wheels and undercarriage of a truck leaving Mr. Messick's farm are sprayed with disinfectant.
 ''We can't go nowhere and no one can come in,'' said Bill Messick, whose Delaware farm is quarantined although his chickens tested negative for flu. (Photographs by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)Map of Delaware highlighting Harrington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (93%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (92%); POULTRY (92%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); CHICKEN FARMING (90%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (90%); BIRDS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); POULTRY PROCESSING (78%); ANIMALS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); VIROLOGY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); VIRUSES (76%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%) Poultry; Avian Influenza; Quarantine

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (51%); ALLEN FAMILY FOODS INC (51%); PERDUE FARMS INC (51%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (51%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (51%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (51%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (51%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (51%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: James Dao

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) DELAWARE, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (98%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (70%) Delaware; Maryland; Delmarva Peninsula

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004



386 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: For Al Jazeera, Balanced Coverage Frequently Leaves No Side Happy

BYLINE: By SAMUEL ABT; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: DOHA, Qatar 

 BODY:
A poster on a wall at the headquarters here of Al Jazeera, the Arabic-language television network, shows a giant eye and a superimposed question: ''Everybody watches CNN. What does CNN watch?'' Underneath is an answer: ''Al Jazeera Channel.'' 
 As boasts go, it does not seem far-fetched. 
 Defended by its newsroom managers as newsworthy and balanced, Al Jazeera's broadcasts of taped statements by Osama bin Laden are widely watched and analyzed. The channel, which often draws the wrath of the Pentagon, is in the midst of a one-month ban in Iraq, and it was denounced as well in Saddam Hussein's time. It is also the target of an advertising boycott in some Arab countries, Al Jazeera executives say. 
 This diversity is a mark of strength, executives said in a series of interviews here. As Wadah Khanfar, the managing director and a Jordanian, put it, ''We have been accused from the beginning that we were created by international agencies like the Mossad, the C.I.A., and that the Americans are behind us, that this regime or that regime is behind us, that Osama bin Laden is behind us. This kind of nonsense is for us a sign that what we are doing is right.'' 
 Another sign is that, in its eighth year of broadcasting, the channel says that it has 35 million viewers daily around the world, most in the Arab world but some as far afield as China and Japan. 
 Now, Al Jazeera says it is planning to expand into the English-speaking world. After the introduction of an English-language Web site last fall, it expects to start a satellite channel in English ''hopefully next year,'' Mr. Khanfar said. That would follow the introduction of an all-sports channel in November and plans for an ''Al Jazeera for kids.'' 
 Haidar Haq, a Lebanese who is head of the channel's sports section, remarked: ''America, Italy, France, they bring what they want to bring to us -- their ideas, their images, their officials. Now, we bring our idea to the Arab world. Maybe next year there will be an Al Jazeera in English to bring an Arabic idea to foreigners.'' 
 And Mr. Khanfar said, ''Already we are recruiting journalists and constructing a building'' for the English-language channel. ''Most of the people we will hire,'' he continued, ''might have English as a mother language, and they might not necessarily be Arabs. The main qualification is their experience and professionalism.'' 
 In London, Chris Cramer, managing director at CNN International, said he was pleased by Al Jazeera's plans. ''It's good for viewer choice,'' he said. 
 Editors say that professionalism is a priority at Al Jazeera, whose name literally means ''the island'' and by extension ''the peninsula,'' alluding to the Saudi land mass from which all Arabs are said to have spread. 
 ''We are trying our best to be comprehensive and accurate,'' said Ibrahim Helal, an Egyptian who is the newsroom chief editor. ''To be accurate, not to achieve an ideological aim.'' 
 Mr. Helal added: ''We are working in a very sensitive time in the Arab world. The Arab region is in the focus of the world's news. What we are trying to do is bridge the gap between the two ways of understanding the news in the East and the West.'' 
 Al Jazeera's managing director, Mr. Khanfar, explained: ''We don't see ourselves as a political party that has an agenda. We see ourselves as a TV station that reports. That's it. We do not carry slogans or propaganda, not at all. We are just ordinary people with a love for journalism.'' 
 Nevertheless, suspicion persists. A magazine article posted on a bulletin board quoted Mr. Helal as complaining about the frequent Western news agency description of ''a report by Al Jazeera that could not be confirmed by an independent source.'' Why, he wanted to know, was confirmation necessary? Is his channel not independent itself? 
 Nor is Al Jazeera without doubters in the Arab world, where it can be critical of governments and interviews opposition figures. 
 This kind of journalism is not without business risks. ''Making money?'' Mr. Khanfar said in response to a question. ''Not really. We're losing it. Agencies are boycotting us. A lot of companies are not putting adverts in our organization because most of them are owned or at least hosted in certain countries that are not happy with us, like Saudi Arabia.'' 
 Profit and loss may not be an overriding concern for the people who put up the money to start Al Jazeera and keep it going. Channel officials identified the backers as Qatari businessmen, while The Economist magazine has said the money comes from the government of Qatar ''because it regards Al Jazeera as a part of its plans for political liberalization.'' 
 The channel reports that it has 750 employees in Doha, Qatar's capital, and 23 bureaus worldwide with about 70 correspondents. In all, Mr. Khanfar said, there are 1,300 to 1,400 employees, 450 of them journalists and the rest support staff members, technicians and computer specialists. He said there were many female employees. 
 He and the others were talking in the newsroom, a sleek place with 10 pods of 3 desks, each with a computer and television set. Clocks show the hour in Washington and Tokyo as well as Greenwich Mean Time, and a wall is dominated by 16 television monitors showing channels including CNN, BBC World News, Reuters and national television stations from Iraq, Abu Dhabi, Egypt and Qatar. Studios, production rooms and archives line the room, and an electronic chart displays satellite booking times. 
 The news is broadcast every hour and changed often. ''We don't have an exclusive Middle Eastern agenda,'' Mr. Helal said. ''Sometimes we lead with a worldwide story -- the chicken flu story, for example.'' 
 ''When we started in 1996,'' he said, ''we didn't really imagine that the Arab audience would be interested in 24-hour news, but gradually it happened. We pushed competitors to do the same. We enforced an Arab agenda on other TV's; we made them extend their Arab coverage.'' 
 Prominent in this coverage are the periodic tapes from Al Qaeda leaders. Calling Mr. bin Laden ''a news-maker,'' Mr. Khanfar analyzed his choice of Al Jazeera as an outlet to the world. 
 ''If you want to pass a message to the biggest audience, you go to the most acknowledged TV station,'' he said, ''and Al Jazeera, in the Arab world, is the biggest. That is not to say we have become the voice of Osama bin Laden, the voice of terrorism. We look at it from a news point of view. 
 ''If you give me a tape and I just play it 100 or 15 or a few times, then I am propagating a message. But if you give me a tape and I take certain elements, certain paragraphs, which I think are newsworthy and put that into my own context and host people who are analysts from different points of view to discuss the discourse, then I am putting it in a context. 
 ''And this is exactly what we do with all his tapes. The people who come to refute that particular tape make the discourse very vulnerable. Very vulnerable.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Newsroom staff members of Al Jazeera are in touch with correspondents and monitor their competitors. (Photo by Agene France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%); WRITERS (60%) Television; Company and Organization Profiles; Television

ORGANIZATION: Al Jazeera

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (70%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Samuel Abt

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); QATAR (79%); JORDAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (74%); CHINA (74%); LEBANON (71%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004



387 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aides Hint Afghan Voting May Be Put Off

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has begun suggesting that Afghanistan's elections scheduled for June may have to be postponed because of security problems and the failure to register enough voters. 
 Administration officials said in recent days that security conditions remained dangerous or at least uncertain in a third of the country, hampering registration so badly that only 8 percent of eligible Afghan voters have been enrolled. Among women, only 2 percent have registered. 
 The United Nations has said at least 70 percent of eligible voters should be registered for the elections to be considered successful. That leaves only four months to achieve a daunting objective at a time when registration workers are avoiding large swaths of the country that are considered unsafe. Afghanistan has about 10.5 million eligible voters. 
 ''I am reasonably confident that we can get enough voters registered and provide security -- it won't be perfect -- that at least the presidential election can take place in June, or maybe July,'' said an administration official. But he added that security would have to improve to reach that goal, and that this might not happen.
 President Hamid Karzai and the Afghan government bear the responsibility for deciding whether the elections must be postponed, administration officials said. But the United States is also expected to play a decisive role in advising the Karzai government about what to do in that regard.
 Mr. Karzai is said to be determined to hold at least the presidential election on time, in part because he expects to win. He is also said to be haunted by the memory that civil war erupted in the early 1990's when Burhanuddin Rabbani, a onetime anti-Russia guerrilla leader, refused to step down as president.
 Under the Constitution that was agreed upon in early January, Afghanistan is supposed to try to schedule both presidential and parliamentary elections in June.
 The administration official said it was very likely that the parliamentary elections, as opposed to presidential elections, would be postponed, possibly until next year, because even beyond security concerns, there were difficulties in setting district boundaries, choosing candidates and organizing political parties for the parliamentary elections. Registration is also hampered by Afghanistan's extensive illiteracy and the fact that perhaps most cities and towns do not have streets or addresses. 
 Many other experts say that in discussions with administration officials, there is a growing sense that the goal of holding prompt elections of any kind this year is receding. 
 Bush administration officials insist that American politics are playing no role in the decisions about whether to push for elections, but there is little doubt that President Bush would like to claim an electoral success in Afghanistan as he runs for re-election himself.
 Similarly, the administration is pushing for a transfer of sovereignty to Iraq in June, another goal that some in the administration say is being influenced at least partly by the domestic political calendar.
 Countering the American desire for an election in Afghanistan in June, many European and Japanese officials and private organizations involved in Afghanistan's reconstruction are in favor of putting off the elections out of fear that chaotic voting may do more harm than good. They also have influence with Mr. Karzai.
 Lakhdar Brahimi, a former United Nations coordinator in Afghanistan and the current United Nations envoy to Iraq, is on record as saying elections cannot be held quickly in either country.
 Last month, Mr. Brahimi told a closed-door Security Council session that Afghan elections could not be held in June, said an official who was there.
 Mr. Brahimi told the National Press Club two weeks ago that ''a huge effort will indeed be necessary'' to have ''free and fair elections'' on schedule. He also predicted that the parliamentary election should probably be held in the spring of 2005. Last week, in Iraq, he was trying to convince Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani that viable elections could not be held there until the end of the year.
 But the administration is resisting a postponement in Afghanistan even as it backs Mr. Brahimi's assessment for Iraq.
 ''If you read all the statements the administration is applying to Iraq -- that security and logistics do not allow for quick elections -- you'll see that they apply also to Afghanistan,'' said Barnett Rubin, a scholar on Afghanistan who is director of the Center for Preventive Action at New York University.
 ''At least Brahimi is consistent,'' Mr. Rubin added.
 Administration officials say attacks in the unsafe areas are being carried out by forces of the Taliban and Al Qaeda and of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a dissident Pashtun commander in the 1980's uprising that drove Soviet forces from Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Hekmatyar's forces at that time were subsidized by the United States and Saudi Arabia. Much of the resources for the fighters now come from drugs, which account for half the country's gross domestic product. 
 The insurgent groups active now are mostly in the southern and eastern parts of the country, especially on the border with Pakistan, where pro-Taliban and pro-Qaeda elements are believed to be sheltering Osama bin Laden. The Afghan authorities have demobilized 2,700 former soldiers of the country's many militias operating under various warlords, but many more remain active. 
 It is unclear whether Mr. Karzai, who was elected president in a grand assembly called a loya jirga, will run for re-election uncontested, in a vigorously contested general election or with token opposition. The hope of American officials is that he will be re-elected with broad support among Afghans.
 In part because Mr. Karzai is expected to win a presidential contest, parliamentary elections pose a much tougher security problem and a more delicate political quandary, administration officials say. Legislative elections, they say, could breed violence and intimidation by warlord groups that might not mobilize in the presidential contest, where they are likely to be marginalized.
 The warlords, most of them ethnic Tajiks from the north, had intially been the power behind Mr. Karzai's presidency, though as the balance of power has shifted their independent clout has decreased and Mr. Karzai has either disarmed their groups or has wooed them into his corner.
 But the Tajiks, Uzbeks and others who supported the American invasion and who have been marginalized in recent months want parliamentary elections to occur at the same time as presidential elections, reasoning that they have a better chance to wield power through the parliament.
 ''If you have a presidential election without a parliamentary election, the opponents of Karzai will say that the constitution is being abrogated and Karzai is trying to become a dictator,'' said Ahmed Rashid, an author of books about the Taliban who has spent many years writing about Afghanistan.
 Mr. Rashid has asserted, most recently in an article in The New York Review of Books, that the United States is pushing the election for Mr. Bush's political advantage.
 ''You cannot have an election in Afghanistan on an agenda set in Washington for the benefit of presidential elections in the United States,'' he said, adding that in his own travels in the country it became clear that security was too chaotic to hold elections any time soon.
 Even many neutral experts and military commanders say a larger force is needed to beef up security before elections. At present, security in Afghanistan is provided by 8,000 to 9,000 American troops, plus 2,000 British, Canadian and other forces and perhaps 5,000 security forces protecting Kabul and Kunduz in the north under the guidance of NATO.
 There is a plan for 32 small teams of security forces in different parts of the country to help with registration, but administration officials acknowledge that it has been hard recruiting outside forces to serve in Afghanistan.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the prospect for elections in Afghanistan misstated the name of the New York University research group directed by Barnett Rubin, who compared the Bush administration's policies on Iraq and Afghanistan. It is the Center on International Cooperation. (He formerly directed the Center for Preventive Action, part of the Council on Foreign Relations.)


GRAPHIC: Photo: Asoma Jan, right, registered as a voter in Kabul recently. Uncertain security in much of Afghanistan has seriously hampered registration. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A6)Chart/Map: ''Security in Afghanistan''Last November, the United Nations assessed the risk levels for aid organizations working in Afghanistan.Map of Afghanistan highlighting the areas that are considered low risk (access permitted), medium risk (military escort required in these areas) and high risk (Areas that should not be entered).(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Elections; Politics and Government; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Legislatures and Parliaments; Registration of Voters; Women

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004



388 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Algeria Shows Willingness to Abandon Its Violent Past

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Little of note happened at OPEC's gathering here this week, other than an announced cut in oil production. There were no explosions. No kidnappings. No assassinations.
 That was exactly what the tough-minded military-backed government would have demanded, after a decade of fighting Islamic insurgents, a battle that has left an estimated 120,000 people dead. 
 The government's next big test will come in presidential elections, set for April 8, elections in which some parties are not taking part, to protest the state of emergency still in effect.
 In the meantime, there are signs that the country is returning bit by bit to the fold of diplomacy and international commerce.
 A few days before ministers from the 11 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries began arriving at an airport patrolled by commandos armed with submachine guns, the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, led a state visit that produced agreements allowing China to explore for oil and gas in Algeria's rich southern Saharan fields.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell came here briefly in December during a trip to North Africa to applaud Algeria's ''exceptional cooperation in the war on terrorism.'' He called for fair presidential elections.
 In March, the French president, Jacques Chirac, accompanied by executives from France's largest companies, dropped by in a display of cordial relations between Algeria and its colonial ruler until 1962. The eight-year war of independence cost a million lives.
 The host of the OPEC meeting, the Algerian oil minister, Chakib Khelil, spoke of strengthening ties with other nations, illustrated by the decision of Air France and British Airways to operate flights to Algiers for the first time in years.
 The area around the capital is relatively safe, but attacks are breaking out farther away. ''The security situation appears to have improved in some places but the Algerian military and government are still on a knife edge,'' said George Joffe, an expert on Algeria at Cambridge University. ''As much as the army would like to declare otherwise, the war in Algeria is not over.''
 Just this week, Islamic fighters killed seven paramilitary police officers in an ambush at a coastal city east of Algiers, Bejaia, the official APS news agency reported.
 In Algiers, where plainclothes and uniformed police officers keep watch, consumer trappings are becoming visible, like the Peugeots and Renaults on the streets, Korean cellphones and satellite dishes perched on balconies of crowded tenements. 
 The government has begun a heavily publicized campaign to raise awareness of traffic safety and road accidents, adding to the impression that Algeria may finally be ready to address issues other than terrorism. The police advertise the slogan ''Speed Equals Death.''
 ''The police are supposed to be fining motorists for not wearing seat belts instead of hunting people down,'' said Mostefa Bouchachi, a lawyer and president of the human rights commission of the Algiers Bar Association. ''Traveling safely around the city or even between cities, something unthinkable not long ago, is one of those subtle achievements.'' 
 The meeting in Algiers was only OPEC's second in Algeria in the organization's 44-year history. Nearly three decades ago, Ilich Ramirez-Sanchez, the Venezuelan terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal, fled to Algiers with 11 of OPEC's ministers who had been kidnapped from a luxury hotel in Vienna.
 The military has assumed great powers since 1992, when the army halted elections that Islamic opponents seemed about to win, an action that began the civil war. In a later election, in 1999, the military's candidate won the presidency only after six rivals dropped out, claiming fraud.
 Fully rekindling the economy, which is heavily dependent on oil and natural gas exports, is another matter. But government officials insist that the nation is on its way to attaining stability that could soon allow it to join groups like the World Trade Organization.
 ''This country passed through a very difficult period in the 90's, but it is recovering fast,'' Abdellatif Benachenhou, Algeria's French-trained finance minister, said in an interview. He cited economic growth that was reported to be more than 6 percent last year, largely because of high oil prices.
 Mr. Benachenhou said he expected the economy of this nation of 32 million people to grow 6 percent again this year.
 Such prospects are tied chiefly to oil and natural gas sales to Europe and the United States. Once shunned by all but a handful of American and European energy companies, the nation is expected to soon become the largest supplier of gas to Spain and one of the largest to France and Italy. 
 Still, even Mr. Benachenhou admits that robust exports cannot easily repair the damage from a decade of civil war or bridge the hard divisions between the French-speaking elite and the mostly underemployed and underpaid masses, many of whom still receive benefits dating from the nation's once rigid socialist past.
 Tension over how to share the nation's oil bounty has spilled over the campaign before the presidential elections in April. Despite the state of emergency, the city's French- and Arabic-language newspapers carry fierce critiques of the administration of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was elected in 1999 with the blessing of the army amid widespread accusations of vote rigging. Under his presidency, thousands of Islamic militants have been pardoned.
 ''Algeria and the Algerians deserve better from the present debate,'' La Tribune, a French-language paper, said in an editorial this week. It accused Mr. Bouteflika of using oil and gas revenues to finance social programs to win electoral support.
 Facing pressure to guarantee fair elections, Mr. Bouteflika has asked the United Nations, Arab League, African Union and European Union to send observers in April. The lack of strong opposition candidates has many convinced that he is likely to be re-elected, though he has not yet officially announced his candidacy. 
 Mr. Bouteflika's government has yet to account for 7,000 or more people who, according to Human Rights Watch, disappeared at the hands of security forces in the 1990's. 
 As if to change the topic, the government has unflinchingly endorsed the Bush administration's campaign against terrorism; it did not permit protests against the war in Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vendors waiting for customers this month in Algiers. Algerian officials say the country's economy has grown. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); RELIGION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (64%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Politics and Government; Elections; Islam; Terrorism; United States International Relations

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: AF (PAR) (53%); AF (AMS) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (72%); HU JINTAO (67%) Simon Romero; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (99%); FRANCE (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Algeria; France; Algeria

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004



389 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Promises, Promises

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
One of the main reasons for the decline in President Bush's credibility is the disconnect between the rosy economic scenarios his administration keeps touting and the much more dismal real-life experience of millions of American families.
 Mr. Bush likes to say, ''America's economy is strong and getting stronger.'' He recently boasted, ''Since May 2003 we have seen the economy grow at its fastest pace in nearly 20 years.'' He predicted that prosperity would soon ''reach every corner of America.'' 
 The president needs to get out more. He could visit the working men and women across the state of South Carolina who have watched the factories and the mills close and their jobs vanish like lights in a blackout. He could chat with the people lining up at soup kitchens and food pantries from Harlem to Oklahoma and beyond. He could take a tour of the Pacific Northwest or Silicon Valley, listening to families that have been devastated by the information technology bust and the outsourcing of high-tech jobs.
 When the labor secretary, Elaine Chao, was questioned on CNN about the disappointing jobs report for January (112,000 jobs were created when 150,000 had been anticipated), she said: ''Well, the stock market is, after all, the final arbiter. And the stock market was very strong this morning in reaction to the news that we have just received.''
 She was outdone in tone-deafness just a few days later by N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, who gave a thumbs up to outsourcing, including the outsourcing of skilled higher-wage jobs. 
 After an outcry from Republican politicians -- including the speaker of the House, Dennis Hastert -- who have been hearing from constituents filled with anxiety about employment, a chastened Mr. Mankiw beat a very public retreat. He said in a letter to Mr. Hastert that ''my lack of clarity left the wrong impression that I praised the loss of U.S. jobs.''
 No amount of political mumbo jumbo can change the fact that the employment situation in the U.S. is grim, and the public is growing weary of the administration's repeated promises that boatloads of jobs are just around the corner. (Any boats with jobs on them are heading overseas.)
 This recovery has been the weakest on record in terms of job growth. The Economic Policy Institute has found, counterintuitively, that upscale workers have been among those especially hard hit, particularly in the area of long-term unemployment.
 ''In all recessions, the least educated have suffered disproportionately,'' the institute said in a report. ''However, the current recession and weak recovery are unique in the extent to which workers with substantial education are also economic victims.''
 The simple truth is that the Bush administration has been wrong, wrong, wrong in its job creation projections, and that pattern appears to be continuing.
 A joint study released last week by the Economic Policy Institute and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that ''actual employment levels in recent years have fallen far below administration forecasts'' and that ''it is quite unlikely that the administration's [current] target will be reached.''
 Back when it was hyping its tax cut plan, the administration predicted that 5.5 million jobs would be created in the 18 months from July 2003 to the end of this year. The study noted that in the first seven months of that period, only 296,000 jobs have been created -- just 5 percent of the administration's projection.
 Working Americans are caught in a terrific squeeze. Jobs are not being created in substantial numbers. The slow pace of job growth has dampened wage growth. Millions of Americans are underemployed, working at jobs for which they are overqualified, or working part time because they can't find full-time work, and so forth. Benefits are being scaled back. And the shipment of upscale jobs overseas is expected to accelerate.
 This is all happening in an expansion. What can we expect from the next recession?
 The president is in serious political trouble in large part because he has not come up with any credible proposals for dealing with these issues, which go to the very heart of the American way of life. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (89%); OUTSOURCING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); DEAFNESS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%) Labor; Election Issues ; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ELAINE CHAO (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (75%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004



390 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft and I.B.M. put their marketing dollars into trying to keep their existing customers happy.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
TWO technology giants, I.B.M. and Microsoft, are reassigning accounts with spending estimated at more than $500 million in decisions that underline the increasing importance of marketing communications outside the realm of traditional advertising.
 The accounts being awarded by I.B.M. and Microsoft to agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies and the WPP Group cover assignments unrelated to producing television commercials, print advertisements or billboards. Rather, the work is primarily centered on what is known as customer relationship management -- that is, efforts to strengthen the loyalties of current customers that can range from offers of free merchandise to rewards for frequent buyers to invitations for sponsored events.
 In tough economic times especially, marketers consider it more efficient and effective to try persuading customers who have bought before to buy more, instead of wooing new customers. 
 ''They say it's 80 or 90 percent easier to sell to a customer than to acquire another one,'' said John Kahan, general manager for corporate customer relationship management at the Microsoft Corporation in Redmond, Wash.
 ''It really comes down to focusing on improving customer satisfaction,'' he added, ''and what makes customers happy is relevant, consistent, useful communications from companies'' with which they do business.
 To that end, Microsoft is consolidating what Mr. Kahan described as ''the vast majority'' of its customer relationship marketing assignments, for divisions including home entertainment, servers, software and its MSN Internet service. Mr. Kahan said the assignments were being divided, roughly evenly, between MRM Partners Worldwide in New York, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of Interpublic, and agencies that operate under the umbrella of the Young & Rubicam Brands at WPP. Those Y.&R. agencies include Banner in London; KnowledgeBase Marketing in Richardson, Tex.; Sicola Martin in Austin, Tex.; and Wunderman in New York.
 MRM and Wunderman are among agencies that have worked previously for Microsoft, Mr. Kahan said, along with ''thousands'' of smaller agencies.
 ''When you step back and see so many firms doing business on your behalf,'' he added, ''delivering consistent, relevant messages with the highest privacy and security is not possible.''
 The consolidation -- one of the largest ever involving customer relationship management assignments -- involves an estimated $400 million to $500 million of Microsoft's annual spending for those tasks. The work will include direct marketing and other mailings, brochures and interactive communications like Web sites.
 ''Whenever you have a global company like Microsoft taking such a significant step toward improving relationships with its customers, it's a powerful testament to customer relationship management,'' said Pamela Maphis Larrick, chief executive at MRM, ''and will be a real indication to a lot of other companies how important it is.'' A sibling of MRM, McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, handles the creation of traditional advertising for Microsoft, and a sibling of Y.&R. Brands, Landor Associates, handles corporate and brand identity assignments for Microsoft.
 In a memorandum to employees, Ann Fudge, chairwoman and chief executive at Y.&R., described the addition of the Microsoft duties as ''a spectacular global assignment'' for Y.&R. Brands. 
 But to expand its relationship with Microsoft, Y.&R. had to bid farewell to I.B.M., which has used Wunderman as the worldwide direct marketing agency for its personal computer, global services and software units. To resolve the conflict that would be caused by putting I.B.M. and Microsoft under one roof, the I.B.M. assignments, with spending estimated at $50 million to $100 million, are being transferred to a WPP sibling, OgilvyOne in New York, which already handles direct marketing tasks for the I.B.M. server and solutions groups. 
 Shifting the I.B.M. work to OgilvyOne from Wunderman was a ''tough choice,'' Ms. Fudge wrote in her memo, softened by the decision of I.B.M. executives ''to consolidate their business within our larger WPP family.'' Matt Ross, worldwide general manager for I.B.M. Brand Services at OgilvyOne in New York, called the I.B.M. consolidation at his agency a gratifying endorsement of ''the positive impact this partnership has had.'' 
 An I.B.M. spokesman in Armonk, N.Y., Brian Doyle, called the switch consistent with ''our global advertising consolidation'' at Ogilvy divisions, which has been taking place for more than a decade, as well as in keeping with ''our client conflict guidelines'' that address ''having an agency handling sensitive duties for us also doing work for our competitors.'' An OgilvyOne sibling, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, has created traditional advertising for I.B.M. since 1994.
 As to the chicken-and-egg aspects of which came first, I.B.M. learning of Microsoft's arrival at Wunderman or I.B.M.'s desire to further consolidate assignments at Ogilvy, Mr. Doyle said, ''both happened simultaneously.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (92%); WPP PLC (91%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (66%); SICOLA MARTIN (53%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Interpublic Group of Cos; Wpp Group; International Business Machines Corp; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



391 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: North Fork to Acquire GreenPoint Financial for $6.3 Billion

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
Betting that consumer banking will remain a fast-growing business, even after several years of expansion, the North Fork Bancorporation said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire the GreenPoint Financial Corporation for $6.3 billion. 
 North Fork, based in Melville, N.Y., plans to issue 1.0514 shares of North Fork common stock for each GreenPoint share, valuing GreenPoint shares at $46 based on North Fork's closing price on Friday. 
 The combined institution will have more than $50 billion in assets, $30 billion in deposits and more than 340 branches, the companies said yesterday, making it one of the larger consumer banks based in the New York area. 
 ''There is no question the consumer model works,'' the chief executive of North Fork, John A. Kanas, said in an interview yesterday. 
 He said that his bank was eager to acquire GreenPoint, which is based on Park Avenue in Manhattan, because of the ''scarcity value'' of banking deposits in the region, and added that he expected that more banks and savings and loans in the area would become takeover targets in the months ahead.
 Already, the New York banking market has attracted plenty of interest from buyers. Local banks that have been taken over include the European American Bank, which Citigroup acquired in 2001, and Dime Bancorp, purchased by Washington Mutual in 2002. 
 Last October, New York Community Bancorp completed its purchase of Roslyn Bancorp for $1.6 billion, and less than a month later, Independence Community Bank Corporation of Brooklyn agreed to buy Staten Island Bancorp for $1.5 billion. 
 North Fork has traditionally focused on small business customers, while GreenPoint has been oriented more toward consumers, Mr. Kanas said yesterday.
 GreenPoint has been so successful at attracting individuals' savings, with deposit growth of 25 percent last year, that the old GreenPoint branches will continue, for the most part, to operate under that brand name, Mr. Kanas said.
 Analysts have been anticipating for some time that deposit growth will slow, as a recovering economy leads consumers and small businesses to put their money elsewhere. 
 ''Banks will no longer have the wind at their backs'' in gathering deposits, said Steven Wharton, an analyst at Loomis, Sayles & Company. 
 Mr. Kanas acknowledged that deposit growth would slow eventually, but said he had seen no signs of it yet.
 ''I'm not sure the deposit drain people are anticipating is imminent,'' he said.
 Mr. Kanas, 57, will remain chief executive of the combined company and GreenPoint's chief executive, Thomas S. Johnson, 63, will become a director.
 Bharat B. Bhatt, currently president and chief operating officer of GreenPoint, will be joining the senior management team of North Fork as senior executive vice president and will also become a director.
 North Fork was advised on the purchase by Sandler O'Neill & Partners and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom. 
 GreenPoint was represented by Lehman Brothers and Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and the law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (97%); NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (80%); STATEN ISLAND BANCORP INC (66%); SANTANDER HOLDINGS USA INC (66%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (60%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: North Fork Bancorp Inc; Greenpoint Financial Corp

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (97%); NYCB (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (91%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



392 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1; A CONVERSATION WITH/Woo Suk Hwang and Shin Yong Moon

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: 2 Friends, 242 Eggs and a Breakthrough

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
For men who had just thrown a giant ethical bomb into the world of science, Dr. Woo Suk Hwang and Dr. Shin Yong Moon were dashing about Seattle last week in a remarkably relaxed mood.
 Dr. Hwang, 51, and Dr. Moon, 56, faculty members at Seoul National University in South Korea, had announced at a news conference here at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science that they had successfully cloned a human embryo and extracted a stem cell line from it.
 Some ethicists were alarmed by the news. ''The age of human cloning has apparently arrived; today, cloned blastocysts for research, tomorrow cloned blastocysts for baby making,'' wrote Dr. Leon R. Kass, chairman of President Bush's Council on Bioethics. ''In my opinion, and that of the majority of the council, the only way to prevent this from happening here is for Congress to enact a comprehensive ban or moratorium on all human cloning.'' 
 But Dr. Hwang, a veterinary medical researcher, and Dr. Moon, an obstetrician, were quite calm. They drank Cokes at the Space Needle and took photographs of the journalists who interviewed them. ''This is a fantastic moment,'' Dr. Hwang, the project's principal investigator, said. 
 ''If I'd known I was going to be interviewed this much, I would have practiced my English much harder,'' added Dr. Moon, who learned some of his English in the 80's when he studied in vitro fertilization at the Jones Institute of Reproductive Medicine in Norfolk, Va.
 The men say they are close friends. For years, Dr. Hwang (rhymes with song) has been making headlines in South Korea by cloning cows and pigs. Eighteen months ago, he approached Dr. Moon and asked him to join his research team; Dr. Moon's work in in vitro fertilization, he said, would greatly aid his efforts at human cell cloning. 
 ''Therapeutic cloning is not really a medical doctor's job; it's a research doctor's job,'' Dr. Moon said. ''Professor Hwang's lab is really fantastic. It's known as the 'cloning academy' or 'the power plant for cloning.' ''
 Dr. Hwang added: ''It's a power plant where we want to help solve some incurable human diseases.''

Q. Leon R. Kass, the bioethics adviser to President Bush, said that he would like to see your type of research banned in the United States. What is your reaction?

WOO SUK HWANG -- Our goal has never been to create cloned human babies, but to find the causes of incurable diseases and to offer a new window for cures.

SHIN YONG MOON -- Professor Hwang and I have called for a ban on reproductive cloning. We don't want people using our techniques to make human beings. We urge every nation to prepare a law as soon as possible to prevent human cloning. As a scientist, I think reproductive cloning should be banned.

Q. What do you think would happen to American science if all cloning were banned?

MOON -- If all human cloning will be prohibited here, that would be a problem for American science. Stem cell research [which cloning facilitates] is very important for understanding the basic science of human development. And it is also very important for new drug evaluations. So biotechnology development -- not all of it, but some -- would be delayed and hindered in the United States.

Q. Do you have problems with your own government over your work?

HWANG -- I can answer your question like this: If Korea were to prohibit therapeutic cloning research, we would have to go to other countries where it is permitted -- Singapore, mainland China, maybe Great Britain. But my hope is that the Korean government will give us the license to do this kind of research. If they don't, we will move.
 Right now we are stopping our work for a short while and thinking about what we shall do next. We'd like to discuss this with our government. We'd like to have their confidence on this kind of research. Then we'll start again.
 You know, almost half of our research team is Christian, including Dr. Moon, who is Methodist. At the lab, we have discussed why we have to do this work. We have asked ourselves, Is there any way to achieve the treatment of some incurable diseases without therapeutic cloning? The answer is, It is a scientist's responsibility to do this research because it is for a good purpose.

Q. What is the religious tradition you come from, Professor Hwang?

HWANG -- I am Buddhist, and I have no philosophical problem with cloning. And as you know, the basis of Buddhism is that life is recycled through reincarnation. In some ways, I think, therapeutic cloning restarts the circle of life.

Q. Professor Hwang, did you grow up in a well-to-do family?

HWANG -- No. We were very poor. My hometown is in a very isolated rural area. When I was an infant, there was the Korean War, and when I was 5, my father died. My mother had to take care of six of us, alone. And in the years after the Korean War, the general status of rural people was very, very difficult. My academic background started in a rural elementary school, but my university was Seoul National University, one of the most famous in Korea.

MOON -- Let me explain more because Professor Hwang and I are of a similar age, though I come from a middle-class background.
 Immediately after the Korean War, we had nothing to eat or drink. The first words I ever spoke in English were, ''Hello, give me a chocolate!'' This is what we said to the G.I.'s. Everybody suffered from hunger. We had nothing. The only way to succeed in life was to study very hard. So Professor Hwang got a good education by being a really hard-working young man. He'd get up at 4:30 every morning and work till midnight. He still does that.

Q. Professor Hwang, was there anything in your rural background that made for your interest in cloning?

HWANG -- Yes. I took care of cows from early childhood on. To this day, I can communicate with cows without any conversation, just by looking, eye to eye. This is partly why I have been interested in animal cloning because I can see how it can solve a lot of problems for farmers. With cows for instance, some produce only milk, others only meat. In 1999, through cloning, our lab was able to produce a cow that is good for both -- a kind of supercow.
 Then, in 2002, we succeeded in cloning miniature sterile pigs whose organs can be used for transplantation to humans. We collected the somatic cells from pigs and inserted some of the human immune gene into the pig's somatic cell. So with these successes behind us, the time seemed right to try therapeutic cloning to cure incurable human diseases like Parkinson's and spinal cord injuries.

Q. To create this cloned embryo that was used for a new stem cell line, 16 Korean women donated 242 human eggs to your project. How did you find these remarkable volunteers?

HWANG -- In Korea like everywhere else there are young ladies who are curious about therapeutic cloning. Some heard about us and they contacted us with e-mail. Also, we sometimes gave lectures about our work. After we spoke, we received inquiries and we arranged meetings and discussed fully what egg donation meant. If they said yes, we enlisted them. We did physical and mental examinations. We asked if they understood what we were trying to do. We gave them a chance to change their minds.

Q. You aren't the first biologists to try these human cloning experiments. What did you do differently from the others?

HWANG -- We used a squeezing method when we extracted the nuclear material from the ovum. We did it with minimum damage to the egg, which isn't easy because human eggs are very, very sticky. Next, we used a different activation time to mimic the fertilization of the egg. We also used a special culture medium for growing the reconstructed egg.

MOON -- Also, there is something special about Dr. Hwang's lab. It's something in our Korean culture. The micromanipulation that we did for the cloning, it's a very tedious job. But people from our part of the world are very patient, and that helped. Our researchers had an almost Zen-like sense of concentration; they could sit for 10 hours in one spot and carefully manipulate the eggs. It was almost like a meditation.

HWANG -- I also think, quite seriously, that our Korean finger techniques helped. Koreans eat with metal chopsticks, which are very slippery. We are trained from an early age how to manage them.

Q. What are the economics of this? Will you become rich?

HWANG -- We have applied for a worldwide P.C.T. [Patent Cooperation Treaty] patent for the technique we developed and also the cloned human embryo stem cells. Sixty percent of the patent will be owned by the university. The remaining 40 percent will go to the other collaborators. Dr. Moon and I will not be participating because we are professors.

Q. Are you refusing money so that your motives can never be questioned?

MOON -- That's right. Korea is a country where respect for the professorship is a little bit different than in the West. Professor Hwang takes the honor, not the money.

Q. Do you think you'll get a Nobel Prize?

HWANG -- Not now. The way I understand it, if the younger generation accomplishes its task and takes what we have done further, then maybe. What we've done is a beginning step.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Woo Suk Hwang, left, and Dr. Shin Yong Moon speaking to reporters in Seattle. ''This is a fantastic moment,'' Dr. Hwang said. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. F1)
 Stem cells were extracted from these highly magnified cloned cells. The researchers say they are taking a break to think about what to do next. (Photo by Seoul National University/Getty Images)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLONING (92%); BIOETHICS (90%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (90%); HUMAN CLONING (90%); ETHICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (87%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); WRITERS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (58%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (56%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



393 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Crystals Could End Up as the Fuel Tank of the Future

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
At first glance, the crystal looks like diamond, said Dr. Omar M. Yaghi, a professor of chemistry at the University of Michigan.
 But the crystal, colorless, is light. A cube of the material one inch on a side weighs about a twentieth of an ounce. To the eye, it looks solid, but a microscope would reveal a Swiss cheese of microscopic holes. The molecules in the crystal stack so loosely that that 95 percent of the volume is nothing, empty space. 
 That is why Dr. Yaghi said, ''We think it's going to be very useful.''
 A crystal that is mostly empty is useful for storing stuff -- hydrogen, in particular.
 The compound is prosaically named Metal-Organic Framework No. 177, MOF-177 for short. Following in the steps of MOF-1 through MOF-176, it or one of its successors could become the fuel tank of the future.
 One hurdle in the envisioned switch to a ''hydrogen economy,'' displacing fossil fuels, is that hydrogen, a gas at room temperatures, is bulky. Now, fitting a reasonable amount of hydrogen into a regular-size fuel tank requires that the hydrogen be squeezed to very high pressures, creating a potential hazard in a collision, or cooled to very cold temperatures, considered impractical and inefficient. (The fuel would have to be chilled even when the car was parked.) 
 Instead, Dr. Yaghi envisions the ephemeral crystals acting as hydrogen sponges, storing the gas at room temperatures under less pressure. Like a sponge, the surface area surrounding the holes is huge. If a one-inch cube of MOF-177 could be disassembled, unfolded and laid out, it would cover 38,000 square feet, or about two-thirds of a football field.
 Hydrogen and other molecules bind to the surfaces. Creating a crystal with more surface area enables more molecules to fit inside. ''Then you can pack these molecules onto a surface without having to apply a lot of pressure,'' Dr. Yaghi said.
 Dr. Yaghi and colleagues at the University of Michigan and Arizona State University report their findings in the Feb. 5 issue of the journal Nature.
 MOF-177 looks like a construct of Tinker Toys; a zinc oxide molecule acts as a central connecting spoke with stiff carbon-based rods radiating outward. ''My interest was in building structures from molecular building blocks,'' Dr. Yaghi said.
 The spokes and rods form a snowflakelike, three-dimensional lattice with plenty of empty space. Because the molecules are stiff, the crystal does not collapse like a balloon when air is sucked out of it. 
 In the Nature paper, the scientists showed that they could fill a MOF-177 crystal with nitrogen and soccer-ball-shaped carbon molecules known as buckyballs. They showed 1.3 ounces of nitrogen could fit into a one ounce MOF-177 crystal. ''That went in quite easily,'' said Dr. Adam J. Matzger, a professor of chemistry at the University of Michigan and another author of the Nature paper.
 They also showed that even large molecules like those that used as colorful dyes could slide into the holes, tinting the clear crystal red, orange and green.
 Researchers led by Dr. Yaghi reported last year in the journal Science that an earlier compound, MOF-5, could absorb hydrogen concentrations of 1 percent by weight at room temperature and a pressure 20 times atmospheric pressure. MOF-177 has about 50 percent more surface area and Dr. Yaghi believes that sticking large molecules in the voids will further increase the surface area and the capacity.
 ''They're interesting; they're innovative,'' said Dr. Michael D. Ward, director of the Materials Research Science and Engineering Center at the University of Minnesota. ''It remains to be seen if they're integrated into a hydrogen economy.''
 The Department of Energy estimates that practical hydrogen storage will require concentrations of at least 6.5 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Like Adding Shelves to a Closet''Tiny crystals with complex interiors have remarkably large surface areas.1. Gas molecules attach to a crystals surfaces and edges.2. A structure for the crystal's interior adds surface area.3. Molecules bind to the new surfaces.4. With many of these structures, the crystal's capacity is greatly increased.(Source by Dr. Adam J. Matzger, University of Michigan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMISTRY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SOCCER (62%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



394 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2365 words

HEADLINE: From Space, A New View Of Doomsday

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Once upon a time, if you wanted to talk about the end of the universe you had a choice, as Robert Frost put it, between fire and ice.
 Either the universe would collapse under its own weight one day, in a fiery ''big crunch,'' or the galaxies, now flying outward from each other, would go on coasting outward forever, forever slowing, but never stopping while the cosmos grew darker and darker, colder and colder, as the stars gradually burned out like tired bulbs.
 Now there is the Big Rip.
 Recent astronomical measurements, scientists say, cannot rule out the possibility that in a few billion years a mysterious force permeating space-time will be strong enough to blow everything apart, shred rocks, animals, molecules and finally even atoms in a last seemingly mad instant of cosmic self-abnegation.
 ''In some ways it sounds more like science fiction than fact,'' said Dr. Robert Caldwell, a Dartmouth physicist who described this apocalyptic possibility in a paper with Dr. Marc Kamionkowski and Dr. Nevin Weinberg, from the California Institute of Technology, last year. 
 The Big Rip is only one of a constellation of doomsday possibilities resulting from the discovery by two teams of astronomers six years ago that a mysterious force called dark energy seems to be wrenching the universe apart.
 Instead of slowing down from cosmic gravity, as cosmologists had presumed for a century, the galaxies started speeding up about five billion years ago, like a driver hitting the gas pedal after passing a tollbooth.
 Dark energy sounded crazy at the time, but in the intervening years a cascade of observations have strengthened the case that something truly weird is going on in the sky. It has a name, but that belies the fact that nobody really knows what dark energy is.
 In six years it has become one of the central and apparently unavoidable features of the cosmos, the surprise question mark at the top of everybody's list, undermining what physicists presumed they understood about space, time, gravity and the future of the universe.
 ''In five years we've gone from saying it looks like a mistake to something that everyone is claiming evidence for,'' said Dr. Robert Kirshner of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who was part of the original discovery.
 Dr. Saul Perlmutter, a physicist from the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory who was a leader of one of the 1998 teams, said he thought astronomers had even gotten comfortable with the idea -- ''or as comfortable as you can be with something as bizarre as dark energy.''
 Now, armies of astronomers are fanning out into the night, enlisting telescopes, large and small, from Chile to Hawaii to Arizona to outer space, in a quest to take the measure of dark energy by tracing the history of the universe with unprecedented precision. 
 Some of them are following the trail blazed by the first two groups six years ago, searching out a kind of exploding star known as Type 1a the supernova. Those stars serve as markers in space, enabling scientists to plumb the size of the universe and how it grew over time. Where the first groups based their conclusions on observing a few dozen supernovas, the new efforts intend to harvest hundreds or thousands of them.
 Others are seeking to gain leverage by investigating how the antigravitational force of dark energy has retarded the growth of conglomerations of matter like galaxies. In one ambitious project, a team led by Dr. John Carlstrom of the University of Chicago is building an array of radio telescopes at the South Pole to count and study clusters of galaxies deep in space-time. Others are already probing the internal dynamics of galaxies by the thousands, or building giant cameras that use the light-bending powers of gravity itself as lenses to map invisible dark matter in space and compile a growth chart of cosmic structures. 
 Dr. Anthony Tyson, now at Bell Laboratories, is head of a project to build a ''dark matter telescope'' known as the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope. ''High energy physicists have been marching into our project,'' he said. ''This is not just another telescope. It's a physics experiment, like a particle accelerator.''
 After all, the fate of the universe is at stake. If the dark energy is virulent enough, then that fate ''is quite fantastic and completely different than the possibilities previously discussed,'' Dr. Caldwell and his colleagues wrote last year.

The Search for One Number
 The idea of an antigravitational force pervading the cosmos does sound like science fiction, but theorists have long known that certain energy fields would exert negative pressure that would in turn, according to Einstein's equations, produce negative gravity. Indeed, some kind of brief and violent antigravitational boost, called inflation, is thought by theorists to have fueled the Big Bang.
 As they try to figure out how this strange behavior could be happening to the universe today, astronomers say the ultimate prize from all the new observing projects could be as simple as a single number.
 That number, known as w, is the ratio between the pressure and density of dark energy. Knowing this number and how it changes with time -- if it does -- might help scientists pick through different explanations of dark energy and thus the future of the universe -- ''whether it's gonna lead to a Big Rip, a Big Collapse or just a Big Fizzle,'' as Dr. Adam Riess of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore put it in an e-mail message.
 One possible explanation for dark energy, perhaps the sentimental favorite among astronomers, is a force known as the cosmological constant, caused by the energy residing in empty space. It was first postulated back by Einstein in 1917. A universe under its influence would accelerate forever.
 While the density of energy in space would remain the same over the eons, as the universe grows there would be more space and thus more repulsion. Within a few billion years, most galaxies would be moving away from our own faster than the speed of light and so would disappear from the sky; the edge of the observable universe would shrink around our descendants like a black hole.
 But attempts to calculate the cosmological constant using the most high-powered modern theories of gravity and particle physics result in numbers 1060 times as great as the dark energy astronomers have observed -- big enough, in fact, to have blown the universe apart in the first second, long before even atoms had time for form. Theorists admit they are at a loss. Perhaps, some of them now say, Einstein's theory of gravity, the general theory of relativity, needs to be modified.
 Another possibility comes from string theory, the putative theory of everything, which allows that space could be laced with other energy fields, associated with particles or forces as yet undiscovered. Those fields, collectively called quintessence, could have an antigravity effect. Quintessence could change with time -- for example, getting weaker and eventually disappearing as the universe expanded and diluted the field -- or could even change from a repulsive force to an attractive one, which could set off a big crunch.
 Recently, in a variation on the quintessence idea, Dr. Leonard Parker of the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee and various colleagues, including Dr. Caldwell, have suggested that the field associated with some unknown very light particle could get tangled up with gravity and cause the universe to accelerate. That would alter Einstein's equations, said Dr. Caldwell. He added, ''Our calculations show, however, that galaxies reside in a bubble of old-fashioned Einstein gravity, whereas gravity has changed outside and between galaxies.''

A Weird Idea Gets Weirder
 But the strangest notion is what Dr. Caldwell has called phantom energy, the dark energy that could lead to the Big Rip.
 ''It's weird negative pressure,'' said Dr. Lawrence M. Krauss, an astrophysicist at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
 While the density of the energy in Einstein's cosmological constant stays the same as the universe expands, the density of phantom energy would go up and up, eventually becoming infinite. Such would be the case if the parameter w turned out to be less than minus 1, say physicists, who admit they are stunned by the possibility and until recently simply refused to consider it.
 ''It crosses a boundary of good taste,'' Dr. Caldwell said, calling phantom energy ''bad news stuff.'' Phantom energy violates physicists' intuitions about how the universe should behave. A chunk of it could be used to prop open wormholes in space and time -- and thus create time machines, for example.
 ''It could lead to such bizarre effects as negative kinetic energy,'' Dr. Krauss said. As a result, objects like atoms would be able to lose energy by speeding up.
 Nevertheless, a recent analysis by Dr. Caldwell and his Dartmouth colleague Dr. Michael Doran of the supernova measurements to date, combined with other cosmological data, suggest that w could lie anywhere from minus 0.8 to minus 1.25, leaving open the possibility of phantom energy. The cosmological constant would give a value of minus 1.0, and anything higher would be a sign of quintessence.
 Dr. Kirshner said phantom energy had been dismissed as ''too strange'' when his group was doing calculations of dark energy back in 1998. In retrospect, he said, that was not the right thing to do.
 ''It sounds wacky,'' he said, referring to phantom energy, ''but I think we're in a situation where we're going to need a really new idea. We're in trouble; the way out is going to be new imaginative things. It might be our ideas are not wild enough, they don't question fundamentals enough.''
 Dr. Chris Pritchet of the University of Victoria, who is part of a collaboration using the Canada-France-Hawaii telescope on Mauna Kea to search for supernovas, said, ''In many ways phantom energy is unphysical, but we're not ruling it out.'' 

Counting Down to the Big Rip
 This version of doomsday would start slowly. Then, billions of years from now, as phantom energy increased its push and the cosmic expansion accelerated, more and more galaxies would start to disappear from the sky as their speeds reached the speed of light.
 But things would not stop there. Some billions of years from now, depending on the exact value of w, the phantom force from the phantom energy will be enough to overcome gravity and break up clusters of galaxies. That will happen about a billion years before the Big Rip itself.
 After that the apocalypse speeds up. About 900 million years later, about 60 million years before the end, our own Milky Way galaxy will be torn apart. Three months before the rip, the solar system will fly apart. The Earth will explode when there is half an hour left on the cosmic clock.
 The last item on Dr. Caldwell's doomsday agenda is the dissolution of atoms, 10-19 , a tenth of a billionth of a billionth of a second before the Big Rip ends everything.
 ''After the rip is like before the Big Bang,'' Dr. Caldwell said. ''General relativity says: ''The end. Time can't evolve.''
 The cosmos probably still has a lot of life in it, according to recent calculations by Dr. Krauss. Based on the current age of the universe, some 14 billion years, and other data, w cannot be less than about minus 1.2, he said, putting the Big Rip about 55 billion years in the future.
 ''It can't be very phantom,'' Dr. Krauss said. 
 The dark energy surveys now under way hope to be able to measure w to an accuracy of 5 percent, but even if that can be done, it may not be sufficient to eliminate the nightmare of phantom energy.
 ''It's hard to measure anything in astronomy to a few percent,'' said Dr. Sandra Faber of the University of California at Santa Cruz, who directs one of the dark energy surveys. Variations in the atmosphere and gaps in astronomers' understanding of supernova explosions add uncertainty to the dark energy measurements.
 As a result some astronomers fear that the results may leave us on the razor's edge unable to decide between a cosmological constant and the other possibilities -- quintessence or a Big Rip. Cosmologists could then be stuck with a ''standard model'' of the universe that fits all the data, but which they have no hope of understanding.
 If the parameter w comes out to be something other than minus 1, Dr. Krauss said, it will at least give some direction to physicists.
 One encouraging sign -- ''a tantalizing bit of hope,'' in Dr. Krauss's words -- that the data will distinguish between a cosmological constant and the other possibilities came last fall when Dr. Riess, of Baltimore, reported, based on new observations of distant supernovas, that the ''cosmic jerk'' when dark energy took over the universe happened only five billion years ago.
 In the standard cosmological constant model, said Dr. Riess, the turnaround should have come one or two billion years earlier. 
 Dr. Tyson was more sanguine. ''Dark energy is crazy, right?'' he said. ''It's going to be exciting no matter what we find.''

Dark Future for Dark Energy?
 The work of the dark energy hunters has been complicated by the impending loss of the Hubble Space Telescope, which can see far enough out in space and time to measure how and if the dark energy parameter w is changing over the eons.
 Last month, citing safety, NASA canceled all future shuttle maintenance missions to the telescope, dooming it to die in orbit, probably within three years, according to astronomers. ''The Hubble shutdown will slow us all down,'' Dr. Perlmutter said.
 At the same time, as a result of the agency's presidentially ordered shift toward the Moon and Mars, plans for a special satellite that was to have been jointly sponsored by NASA and the Department of Energy have at least temporarily disappeared from NASA's five-year budget plan.
 Dr. Perlmutter, who has devoted much of his time in the last six years to the proposed satellite experiment, said he hoped that a way would be found to keep the project on track to be launched in the next decade.
 ''When you have the most exciting scientific problem of the day, you don't want to wait around,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Robert Kirshner of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics helped discover that a mysterious force seems to be wrenching the universe apart. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
Dr. Saul Perlmutter, top, a physicist, and Dr. Adam Riess, an astronomer. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
(Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F4)
(Photo by Bill Marsh/The New York Times)
(Photo by Milky Way image by Dr. Edward L. Wright and NASA)(pg. F1)Chart: ''The Big Rip''After the instant when protons and neutrons are pulled apart, only elemental particles would remain, probably electrons and a soup of quarks. Time, according to Einstein's theory, ends.Four Paths to OblivionThe universe is in a period of moderate acceleration compared with its probable swelling after the Big Bang.Scientists are trying to calculate how powerful dark energy is and how it will affect the universe.Stronger dark energy rips the universe apart sooner.If dark energy is weak, a ''big chill'' sets in as the universe expands indefinitely. Or dark energy could reverse, collapsing the cosmos.A MORE IMMEDIATE PROBLEMThe Sun swells up and destroys the Earth in about five billion years,well before the Big Rip.PHANTOM FORCEDark energy speeds the universe's expansion. Distant galaxies disappear from view as they approach light speed.MILKY WAY SPINS APARTStars and planets remain intact, but the galaxy does not.(Sources by Dr. Robert Caldwell, Dartmouth College
 Dr. Lawrence Krauss, Case Western Reserve University)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILKY WAY GALAXY (92%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); HAWAII, USA (66%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



395 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: A Store Made for Right Now: You Shop Until It's Dropped

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Fashion changes radically every season, so why shouldn't the boutiques that sell the clothes?
 That is the strategy -- some might say gimmick -- behind the new Comme des Garcons Guerrilla Store that opened here on Saturday. In the first example of provisional retailing by an established fashion house, the store plans to close in a year -- even if it is making money.
 Instead of spending millions to build or renovate a building, Comme des Garcons spent just $2,500 to fix up a former bookshop in the historic Mitte district. Because the company doesn't plan to stay long in the 700-square-foot space, it didn't bother to remove the name of the previous tenant from the windows. Advertising consisted of 600 posters placed around the city, and word of mouth. 
 ''Of course it seems outrageous to close something once it becomes a success, and I think we will be successful,'' said Adrian Joffe, who conceived the store with his wife and partner, Rei Kawakubo, the avant-garde Japanese designer. ''But to be creative at anything takes an unbelievable amount of energy, and the minute you start to feel content with your success is when you lose it. You don't want to get too comfortable.''
 There is little chance of that, because all 20 stores that the Tokyo-based company plans to open by next year, including one in Brooklyn in September, will adopt the same guerrilla strategy, disappearing after a year. 
 Opening just days after the behemoth Louis Vuitton flagship on Fifth Avenue in New York, the Comme des Garcons Guerrilla Store flouts conventional wisdom in almost every way. And other retailers are beginning to adopt tactics that acknowledge the highly perishable nature of fashion and reflect the consumer's desire for a different shopping experience from what she might have in a mall or an upscale store. Last fall, Target opened a ''pop up'' outlet in Rockefeller Center for Isaac Mizrahi's latest fashion, closing it after six weeks, and the mass merchant has also sold goods from a boat at the city's piers. This approach ''eventizes'' shopping, said Seth Matlins, a brand agent at Creative Artists Agency in Los Angeles, which provides marketing advice to companies like Motorola, Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble.
 That a mass merchant and an avant-garde designer hit upon the same idea is no coincidence. Nancy Koehn, a professor at Harvard Business School, finds the underground approach of Comme des Garcons completely consistent with a trend toward more direct marketing.
 ''Accessibility has really been redefined for consumers,'' Ms. Koehn said. ''Young people are taking the cues from their friends and less and less from established channels like fashion magazines and mass advertising.'' She noted that brands like Red Bull, the nonalcoholic energy drink, and Trader Joe's, the specialty grocery chain, have built their followings by word of mouth. ''Trader Joe's uses total guerrilla marketing,'' she said. ''This is the wave of the future. One of the most cost-effective ways to reach a consumer is through their friends.'' 
 For virtually every segment of the fashion industry -- from Parisian luxury houses to small-fry entrepreneurs selling one-off clothes over the Internet -- the challenge is how to capture what marketers call ''mind share,'' that part of consumer consciousness not staked out by other influences. 
 Some companies, like Asprey and Louis Vuitton, do it with aspirational advertising and monolithic real estate, which by its very size works to establish a presence in peoples' minds. Louis Vuitton's 20,000-square-foot Fifth Avenue store, its opening marked by lines of disgruntled guests stuck out in the cold and a heavy police presence, is its largest store -- that is, until an even larger Vuitton opens in December in Paris.
 Fashion is one of several industries facing its own perishability. The music and film industries have experienced a similar blight as CD's and movies have shorter and shorter shelf lives. But to sense the change in fashion one need only look at the runways in Bryant Park in New York. Last week, 130 designers presented their fall 2004 collections, with more to follow over the next month in Milan and Paris. Yet by the time their clothes are manufactured, a factory in Malaysia or China will have produced cheaper versions. Stores like H&M and Zara will have them on their racks -- and the consumer will be on to the next thing. 
 Even for an industry that survives on change, this sense that nothing lasts for long constitutes a radical shift, affecting moods and economies but also lives. No one understands the paradigm of impermanency better than Tom Ford, whose career at Gucci was abruptly shortened. Asked recently if he thought people would remember him after he leaves Gucci in April, Mr. Ford said to Women's Wear Daily, with a snap of his fingers: ''They will forget. This is today. This is the world. Six months, a year, two years. Whatever happens goes away.''
 For years, corporations have recognized that ''the medium is the message.'' But as the sheer glut of information clogs up the sensory canals, making traditional news media less effective -- Ms. Koehn estimated that American consumers w are bombarded with 750,000 individual advertisements a year -- marketing experts say how a product is sold can break through the clutter. ''What you'll see is that distribution will become the message,'' Mr. Matlins said.
 ''The young people, the people in the pit of fashion: they're turning in a different direction,'' said Mr. Joffe, who added that the hyped-up atmosphere of fashion -- the megashows, the stars -- has led people to seek a more ''authentic'' experience. ''Big brands mean less and less to them.''
 Melissa Kirgan, 23, who graduated last year from the Fashion Institute of Technology, gave up a good job with a sportswear company to form a collective of designers and artists, one of several such groups in Manhattan. ''Our approach is anti-Wal-Mart,'' she said. ''It's turning against all the branding and noise.''
 Perhaps no retail concept is more reflective of these provisional times than the new Comme des Garcons Guerrilla Store. 
 Mr. Joffe said that when he and Ms. Kawakubo visited Berlin last summer, they were impressed by the authentic-looking atmosphere of the Mitte district, especially at Monsieur Vuong, a Vietnamese noodle bar that draws a mix of old and young people, and at Elternhaus, a boutique run by a group of artists whose name, in German, means ''parent's home.'' None of those places seem to devote a great deal of attention to decor or displays. Unconsciously or not, their owners were recognizing a fundamental shift in young consumers' attitudes: that content and product now counts for more than image.
 By early October, Ms. Kawakubo and Mr. Joffe had formulated the idea for Guerrilla Store, enlisting Dat Vuong, the owner of the noodle bar, to help with decor. They also spread out their risk, creating a partnership with Christian Weinecke, an architecture student, who will run the shop. 
 Because Comme des Garcons is a small company, with annual sales of $120 million, it isn't encumbered with layers of bureaucracy and can respond to changes quickly. 
 The Guerrilla Store also makes commercial sense. With a monthly rent of $700, the store gives Comme des Garcons an inexpensive means to channel avant-garde pieces from the runway, sell off clothes from past seasons and reduce inventory. 
 Still, even if companies like Gucci and Louis Vuitton are too invested in their luxury images to be sincere guerrillas, marketing experts say they need to be much more attuned to the fact that young people, whether in New York or Shanghai, are tapping into the same underground. And that can make a designer wallet seem a lot less desirable than a customized pair of jeans.
 ''The influences today are terrifically eclectic,'' Mr. Matlins said. ''One of the things we're seeing with kids is how much they're buying from eBay.'' When Sidney Toledano, the chief executive of Dior, visits New York, he makes a point of stopping in the Apple computer store. 
 ''I learn more from a store like that than I do fashion stores,'' he said. 'You're not just buying merchandising, you're exchanging information.''
 Berlin, with its long history of occupation, may be the perfect place to start a revolt. Among the 200 Berliners who passed through the store searching through cotton shirts and boiled wool jackets was Claudia Skoda, a knitwear designer who used to have a shop in New York.
 ''It seems a little bit funny,'' Ms. Skoda said of the notion of a store not meant to last forever. Still, she bought one of Ms. Kawakubo's orange checked skirts and planned to return for a pair of silver sneakers. She said she already knew of a designer who was thinking of opening a similar store in Mitte. And she was pleased to find something different in her own city. ''I think people are tired of things you can get everywhere in the world.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Feb. 17 about the new Comme des Garcons Guerrilla Store in Berlin, which plans to close after a year whether it is successful or not, omitted the name of one business partner. She is Lil Schlichting-Stegemann.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Word of mouth draws customers to Comme des Garcons in Berlin. The facade of the new store, a former bookshop, in the Mitte district. Jay Bo browses. Below, other customers shop in the Guerrilla Store. (Photographs by Otto Pohl for The New York Times)
 Target opened a store for Isaac Mizrahi for several weeks last year in Rockefeller Center. (Photo by Lars Klove)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%); FASHION DESIGN (79%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); DIRECT MARKETING (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); TRENDS (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%) Apparel; Retail Stores and Trade; Advertising and Marketing; Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Behavior; Apparel; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (66%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Comme des Garcons Guerrilla Store (Berlin); Target Corp 

TICKER: MC (PAR) (66%); LVMH (BIT) (66%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); KO (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (66%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (51%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Adrian Joffe; Rei Kawakubo; Isaac Mizrahi; Cathy Horyn

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (87%) Berlin (Germany); New York City; Tokyo (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



396 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Haiti's Leader Defiant In Face of Protests
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti, defiant in the face of an increasingly violent movement aimed at removing him from office, denounced that movement as an attempt to overthrow the country's elected government by force and declared that only he can save Haiti from a civil war. A3

Kremlin's Media Power
More than a dozen years after the collapse of the Soviet Union, what Russians see on the news remains subject to the only rating system that counts: the Kremlin's. The result has been flattering portrayals of President Vladimir V. Putin that are drawing comparisons to Soviet broadcasts and prompting warnings that the state's control over the airwaves has become one of the most significant obstacles to a democratic society. A1

Deal Sought for Ex-C.E.O
Shareholders in the Russian oil giant Yukos offered to cede control of the company in exchange for the release from jail of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, Yukos's former chief executive and Russia's richest man. A6

Pakistan Critics See Cover-up
Ten days after President Pervez Musharraf pardoned Pakistan's top nuclear scientist for sharing nuclear technology with Iran, North Korea and Libya, Parliament's upper house debated the issue, with the opposition charging the government of hiding the truth. A3

Mad Cow Variant in Italy
A new form of mad cow disease has been found in Italy, according to a study, and scientists believe that it may be the cause of some cases of human brain-wasting disease. A9

Serbia Nears New Government
Serbia, after weeks of political deadlock, appeared on the verge of forming a new government, but the composition of the minority coalition, and the members' shared opposition to the international war crimes tribunal, may sour already difficult relations with the West. A9

Explosion at Iraqi School
An explosion in a corner of a crowded playground of an elementary school for boys in northern Baghdad killed at least one child and injured at least three. A8

Paul Bremer III, the chief American administrator in Iraq, attended the opening of the Zainab al-Hawraa Center for Women's Rights, a former Baath Party building converted with $163,000 in American money to a place where women can acquire job skills and learn about their political rights. A8

Halliburton Halts Billing
Seeking to defuse a growing election-year issue, the Halliburton Company said that it had stopped billing the Pentagon for the cost of feeding American troops in Iraq and Kuwait until a dispute over the number of meals served is resolved. A8

NATIONAL A10-19

Dean Vows Not to Quit After Wisconsin Contest
Howard Dean vowed to continue his bid for the presidency, even after his campaign chairman defected and he appeared headed for another defeat. But with some Dean supporters warning that he could not survive a loss in Wisconsin, Senators John Kerry and John Edwards began contemplating a two-person race. A1

Wealthy Arab Americans and foreign-born Muslims who strongly back President Bush's decision to invade Iraq are adding their names to the ranks of the elite Bush supporters who must raise $100,000 or more for his re-election. A1

Water Problem Resolved
Municipal water service has started in a section of Zanesville, Ohio, that had relied on wells and cisterns for decades. Two years ago, residents filed a complaint with the Ohio Civil Rights Commission, arguing that they had been denied service because of racial discrimination. A1

Gays Flood City Hall for License
Hundreds of gay and lesbian couples continued to descend on San Francisco's City Hall, intent on getting a marriage licenses before court hearings on same-sex marriages A10

Report on Abusive Priests
A nationwide survey on the extent and causes of sexual abuse by Roman Catholic clergy members has found that 4,450 priests have been accused of sexually abusing minors since 1950, according to a CNN report. A14

Antibiotics Linked to Cancer
Frequent use of antibiotics has been linked to a greater risk of breast cancer, say researchers who studied thousands of women and found that those who took the drugs most often had twice the risk. A14

Scholarship for Whites
A new scholarship on the campus of Roger Williams University in Bristol, R.I., intended as a parody of scholarships available only to minorities, is being offered to whites. A17

Medicare Card Fraud Found
Federal officials say they have detected evidence of fraud in the marketing of drug discount cards under the Medicare law signed 10 weeks ago by President Bush. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Iraq and Africa Reporting Cited Among Polk Awards
Journalists who faced personal dangers to cover wars in Iraq and Africa, and others who exposed perilous working conditions, predatory lending practices and the sexual exploitation of homeless children, were among the winners of 14 George Polk Awards for 2003 announced by Long Island University. B7

False Report Leads to Charges
A Waterbury man was charged with telephone harassment, falsely reporting an incident involving a death and making a false statement, the town's newspaper reported. B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Some Ephedra Will Remain
By April 12, ephedra will disappear from stores and Web sites that sell dietary supplements, by order of the Food and Drug Administration. But that does not mean the herb will entirely drop out of sight. The agency's ban on ephedra specifically excludes uses of the herb in traditional Asian medicine. F5

Health & Fitness D5

FASHION B10

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES A21

Lawrence S. Ritter
The author of ''The Glory of Their Times,'' a pioneering oral history of the baseball world during the early 20th century, he was 81. A21

SPORTS D1-7

Rodriguez Officially a Yankee
Alex Rodriguez officially became the crown jewel of George Steinbrenner's glittering collection of players when Commissioner Bud Selig approved the trade that sent Alfonso Soriano and a player to be named to the Texas Rangers for Rodriguez and $67 million. The $67 million is the most money ever included in a trade. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

AT&T Leans Toward Vodafone
AT&T Wireless, the nation's third-largest wireless telephone operator, appears to be leaning toward a buyout bid for $38 billion cash from Vodafone Group of Britain, executives close to the talks said. A1

Disney Rejects Comcast Offer
The board of the Walt Disney Co. unanimously rejected the $54 billion unsolicited stock offer from cable operator Comcast Corp. because it was $3.60 cents less per share than the market price of Disney's stock. C1

Key Figure in Stewart Trial
Samuel D. Waksal, founder of ImClone Systems, has been a major presence in the Martha Stewart trial because of the consensus that if Dr. Waksal had not tried to sell his shares on Dec. 27, 2001, Ms. Stewart would not be on trial. C1

North Fork to Buy GreenPoint
Placing a bet that consumer banking will remain a fast growing business, the North Fork Bancorporation said it had agreed to acquire the GreenPoint Financial Corporation for $6.3 billion. C2

Financial Stability Abroad
Developing countries seem more solid financially than they have been in years. Prices for their raw material exports are strong. Their economic growth is picking up broadly, and global interest rates are low. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Distorting the intelligence; protection for a city's water; political timing, outsourced.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E7
TV Listings E8
Public Lives B2
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); WAR CRIMES (71%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); WOMEN (68%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); PARDONS (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (81%); OAO NK YUKOS (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (81%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (81%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (67%) HAITI (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



397 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Health of Nations

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Economic Report of the President, released last week, has drawn criticism on several fronts. Let me open a new one: the report's discussion of health care, which shows a remarkable indifference to the concerns of ordinary Americans -- and suggests a major political opening for the Democrats.
 According to a recent Gallup poll, 82 percent of Americans rank health care among their top issues. People are happy with the quality of health care, if they can afford it, but they're afraid that they might not be able to afford it. Unlike other wealthy countries, America doesn't have universal health insurance, and it's all too easy to fall through the cracks in our system. When I saw that the president's economic report devoted a whole chapter to health care, I assumed that it would make some attempt to address these public concerns. 
 Instead, the report pooh-poohs the problem. Although more than 40 million people lack health insurance, this doesn't matter too much because ''the uninsured are a diverse and perpetually changing group.'' This is good news? At any given time about one in seven Americans is uninsured, which is bad enough. Because the uninsured are a ''perpetually changing group,'' however, a much larger fraction of the population suffers periodic, terrifying spells of being uninsured, and an even larger fraction lives with the fear of losing insurance if anything goes wrong at work or at home. 
 The report also seems to have missed the point of health insurance. It argues that it would be a good thing if insurance companies had more information about the health prospects of clients so ''policies could be tailored to different types and priced accordingly.'' So if insurance companies develop a new way to identify people who are likely to have kidney problems later in life, and use this information to deny such people policies that cover dialysis, that's a positive step?
 Having brushed off the plight of those who, for economic or health reasons, cannot get insurance, the report turns to a criticism of health insurance in general, which it blames for excessive health care spending.
 Is this really the crucial issue? It's true that the U.S. spends far more on health care than any other country, but this wouldn't be a bad thing if the spending got results. The real question is why, despite all that spending, many Americans aren't assured of the health care they need, and American life expectancy is near the bottom for advanced countries. 
 Where is the money going? A lot of it goes to overhead. A recent study found that private insurance companies spend 11.7 cents of every health care dollar on administrative costs, mainly advertising and underwriting, compared with 3.6 cents for Medicare and 1.3 cents for Canada's government-run system. Also, our system is very generous to drug companies and other medical suppliers, because -- unlike other countries' systems -- it doesn't bargain for lower prices.
 The result is that American health care, which at its best is the best in the world, offers much of the population a worst-of-all-worlds combination of insecurity and high costs. And that combination is getting worse: insurance premiums are rising, and companies are becoming increasingly unwilling to offer insurance to their employees.
 What would an answer to the growing health care crisis look like? It would surely involve extending coverage to those now uninsured. To keep costs down, it would crack down both on drug prices and on administrative costs. And it might well cut private insurance companies out of the loop for some, if not all, coverage. 
 But the administration can't offer such an answer, both because of its ideological blinders and because of its special interest ties. The Economic Report of the President has only negative things to say about efforts to hold down drug prices. It talks at length about insurance reform, but it mainly complains that we rely too much on insurance; it says nothing about either expanding coverage or reducing insurance-company overhead. Its main concrete policy suggestion is a plan for tax-deductible health savings accounts, which would be worth little or nothing to a vast majority of the uninsured.
 I'll talk more about alternatives for health care in future columns. But for now, let's just note that this is an issue the public cares about -- an issue the administration can't address, but a bold Democrat can. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (63%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); DIALYSIS (62%); MEDICARE (55%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; United States Economy

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



398 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; Market Place

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Good Times Roll On for Developing World, for Now

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Developing countries seem more solid financially than they have in years. The prices for their raw material exports are strong. Their economic growth is picking up broadly. Global interest rates are low, but most of the current accounts of these nations are in surplus, so they do not need to borrow much money from the rest of the world, anyway. 
 Yet it took only a few words from the Federal Reserve a couple of weeks ago -- replacing its promise of low rates ''for a considerable period'' with a promise to be ''patient'' before raising them -- to send developing country debt into a financial swoon. The frisson provided an abrupt reminder of the effect that tighter credit in the United States would have on the economies of the developing world. 
 ''It was a warning shot of what's to come when interest rates go up,'' said William Rhodes, a senior vice chairman of Citigroup. 
 In the two days after the Fed's statement on Jan. 28, the price of insurance against a default on Brazil's foreign bonds jumped 25 percent, to a little under 5 cents on the dollar. The price to cover against a default by Turkey spiked by more than 20 percent, to just under 4 cents. Some developing country stock markets were pummeled, and the prices of their bonds fell. 
 According to Mr. Rhodes, who has been dealing with emerging market debt crises since Jamaica's in the 1970's, ''the situation is in a way reminiscent of the very early months of 1997, before the Asian financial crisis.'' 
 What worries Mr. Rhodes is that investors have been pumping money into developing countries with an intensity not seen since the mid-1990's, when capital flowed to ''emerging markets'' like water flowing downhill. According to the Institute of International Finance, a lobbying group for big banks, private capital flows to the developing world topped $187 billion in 2003 -- the biggest total since 1997 -- and will probably exceed $196 billion this year. 
 With interest rates in the industrial world at 40-year lows, investors have sought higher returns ever further afield. They have aggressively snapped up developing country debt, bidding up bond prices with little heed, often, to the creditworthiness of the issuer. 
 In the process, the spreads on emerging market bonds -- the premium they pay over the yield of United States Treasury bonds to compensate for their riskiness -- have dropped to seven-year lows.
 Unfortunately for the beneficiaries of this largesse, investors can be fickle. In the mid-1990's, money was also pouring into many developing economies. Then, in the summer of 1997, Thailand devalued the baht. The flood of money virtually stopped, emerging market spreads soared and a string of economies from Thailand to Indonesia to Russia to Brazil bit the dust. 
 Could the same thing happen today, if, say, the anticipated rise in United States interest rates prompted American investors to bring their money back home? 
 ''In my opinion it is going to be milder than in 1997. But the direction is clearer than the intensity,'' Paulo Leme, director for emerging markets' economic research at Goldman, Sachs, said. ''If there is a tightening of monetary policy in the G-7 countries, there could be temporary dislocations that either reduce, increase the price, or outright interrupt the capital flows to some of these countries.''
 The power of the blow will depend on three things, analysts say: how abruptly interest rates rise in the industrial world, how the rise affects investors' appetite for emerging market investments, and how well the emerging markets are prepared to withstand investors' loss of appetite. 
 The good news is that most developing economies are strong. ''The outlook for emerging markets is the most positive we have seen for years,'' said Kristin J. Forbes, a member of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. ''For the first time since 2000, every country in Latin America will grow.'' 
 Emerging markets, she added, are expected this year to repay more to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other international financial institutions than they borrow, for the first time since at least 1978.
 Unlike 1997, when emerging markets needed foreign money to cover current account deficits amounting to some $70 billion, last year every developing region -- Asia, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and Africa and the Middle East -- recorded a current account surplus. Most foreign money flowing to developing countries is direct investment in factories and equipment, rather than volatile portfolio capital.
 And developing countries have learned from the scorching crises of the late 1990's. They have kept a lid on short-term debt and have tucked away cushions of foreign reserves to soften the blow of any eventual drop in foreign financing. Most of them have floated their currencies, to avoid having to spend reserves defending fixed exchange-rate regimes. 
 There are weak links, of course. In a report issued in January, the Institute of International Finance suggested that the relatively poor economic outlook of countries like Ecuador, Venezuela, Peru, Egypt and the Philippines did not justify the level of capital flows into those countries, implying that the financing could snap back. 
 The institute warned that developing countries must stay the path of orthodox economic management, meaning tight fiscal policies and market-friendly economic reforms, to ensure that capital flows continue. 
 Yet over all, emerging markets seem perched on solid ground. ''We don't see the traditional emerging-market risk factors,'' Jeffrey D. Sachs, the Columbia University economist, said. ''We are not moving off of a preceding period of euphoria.'' 
 Since January 2003, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's between them have upgraded the credit outlook for 25 developing countries and downgraded only 5.
 Stable emerging markets are not guaranteed to avoid crises, however. If properly motivated, investors can provide the requisite instability. And lately, potentially unstable money has become a bigger part of the flow. 
 According to the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland, the entity that sets global banking standards, in 1998 about 30 percent of the trade in developing country debt was accounted for by leveraged hedge funds -- fickle investors that tend to pull money wholesale out of one market to cover margin calls on losing investments elsewhere.
 By 2002, this percentage dropped to only 10 percent, while activity by high-quality investors -- like pension funds -- grew to represent 28 percent of the market. 
 Yet as emerging market debt prices surged last year, leveraged investors were drawn back in. Data compiled by Jonathan Bayliss, global head for quantitative strategy at J.P. Morgan Chase's emerging markets' research group, indicate that by the end of 2003, the hedge funds were responsible for roughly 17 percent of the trading volume in emerging market debt, while business by more patient investors dropped to 21 percent of the total. 
 Yet while leveraged investors might magnify the effect on emerging markets of financial fluctuations in the United States, ultimately the magnitude of any rise in interest rates here will determine the power of the shock.
 If, as many investors expect, the Fed increases rates only moderately and does not bring growth in the United States to a halt -- and if the large federal budget deficit and the decline in the dollar do not spur a spike in market interest rates -- then emerging markets could sail through unscathed.
 Emerging market bonds would decline, so developing countries would find it more expensive to borrow money. But that cost would be counterbalanced by firm commodity prices and a strong American economy sucking in developing country exports. 
 ''If rates go up in this country because of global reflation, emerging markets gain more than they lose,'' said Mohamed El-Erian, head of emerging markets portfolio management at Pimco, the mutual fund company.
 The Fed-induced financial tremors two weeks ago could even prove beneficial for the developing world, shaking out some of the frothy short-term hedge fund money and leaving long-term, strategic investors in place. 
 But it would be unwise to bet too heavily on such smooth sailing. ''If interest rates go up because people lose faith in the dollar, or hesitate to fund the ever growing U.S. budget deficit, that would be unambiguously negative for emerging markets,'' Mr. El-Erian said. ''We think the first scenario is much more probable, but we have to monitor both.'' 


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Emerging Markets Are Back in Favor''Low interest rates in the United States and Europe have prompted many investors to buy emerging-market debt, pushing the yield on the more risky debt near record lows for the past decade.Graph tracks Net private money invested in emerging markets since 1995.Emerging markets bond spread over TreasuriesEmerging market bond index excluding defaulted bondsLeftist candidate, Luis Inacio Lula da Silva, is elected president of Brazil.Argentina defaults on its debt, beginning a crisis there.Thailand devalues the baht. Onset of Asian crisis.Fed starts series of interest rate rises.Mexico devalues the peso.Brazil devalues the real.Russia defaults on its debt.(Sources by Institute of International Finance
 J. P. Morgan)(pg. C10)Graph tracks emerging market bond index, excluding defaulted bonds since Jan. (Source by J.P. Morgan)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); LOBBYING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); DEVALUATION (71%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Third World and Developing Countries; International Trade and World Market; Interest Rates; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Brazil; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



399 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Protection for a City's Water

 BODY:
New York is among the few American cities enjoying high-quality unfiltered drinking water, most of it from reservoirs in the Catskill-Delaware watershed west of the Hudson River. Keeping things that way means protecting the streams feeding the reservoirs from contamination, which in turn means restraining commercial and residential development. A clean watershed will also save the city $6 billion -- the cost of building a filtration plant, which the federal government will require if New York cannot guarantee the purity of its upstate reservoirs. 
 In recent years, the city and the upstate communities have together done a solid job of protecting the watershed, largely as a result of a 1997 agreement under which the communities pledged to avoid large-scale development in exchange for various forms of economic assistance from the city. In addition, the city agreed to buy land from willing sellers to serve as buffer zones around the reservoirs -- an important step because the biggest threat to clean water is polluted runoff from farms, housing developments, roads and strip malls.
 The 1997 agreement now faces its biggest test. An upstate developer, Dean Gitter, is seeking state and city permission to build a five-star resort on opposite sides of Belleayre Mountain, where the state maintains a ski center. Belleayre is 120 miles northwest of the city and within 20 miles of two major reservoirs; the most important is the Ashokan. Mr. Gitter is not thinking small: his 500-acre resort would include 400 hotel rooms, 5 restaurants, a conference center, 2 spas, 351 time-share apartments and 2 golf courses. Having lived in the Catskills for 34 years, Mr. Gitter is no interloper. He says that his design incorporates every possible safeguard, and that the project will generate more than 700 jobs in one of the state's poorest regions.
 Inevitably, however, a project of this size carries risks that extend beyond the boundaries of the project itself and over which Mr. Gitter may have little control. For instance, environmentalists fear that the project will not only destabilize the mountain's thin soil, sending polluted rainwater into streams feeding the Ashokan, but will inevitably invite secondary development, including -- fatally, in their view -- a widening of Route 28, the area's main artery. That, they say, would be the beginning of the end for New York's unfiltered water supply.
 Incredibly, the state's Department of Environmental Conservation had planned to close the public comment period on the project on Feb. 24 -- hardly time to examine the 6,000-plus pages of an environmental impact statement that was made available for public inspection in early December. Under pressure, it has now agreed to extend the comment period until April 23. These months should be used wisely. However well-intentioned Mr. Gitter's motives, the sheer size of his project raises serious questions deserving the most serious examination. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); RESORTS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MOUNTAINS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); SKIING (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RETAILERS (52%) Water; Editorials; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Conservation Department (NYS)

PERSON: Dean Gitter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State; Belleayre Mountain (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



400 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: A Cattle Showdown in Alabama

 BODY:
Sometime next week, the jury will reach a verdict in the historic case of Pickett v. Tyson/IBP, marking a temporary end to eight years of legal wrangling between the plaintiffs -- some 30,000 cattle producers -- and the giant meatpacker IBP, which is now owned by Tyson Foods. The heart of the case is an enormous shift in the world of livestock over the past quarter-century. Cattle were once sold mainly at cash auctions to bidders who included buyers from different packing plants. But there are virtually no independent packers left. Four companies -- the three largest are named in this suit -- now control 82 percent of the slaughter market, up from 36 percent in 1980. The equilibrium between producers and buyers, reflected in a cash auction, has been replaced by buyers' dominance, a pattern that has prevailed in most sectors of the farm economy. 
 At any one time, thanks to advance contracts, packers own as much as 35 percent of the herd making its way to slaughter. That gives them the ability to wait out high prices and return to buying when prices drop. The result? Packers' profit margins have soared, while cattle producers get a smaller and smaller share of the retail beef dollar. The ranchers argue that such tactics violate the 1921 Packers and Stockyards Act, which prohibits packers from employing any ''unfair, unjustly discriminatory, or deceptive practice or device'' or from making preferential agreements. The Packers and Stockyards Act was passed expressly to break up the dominance of five major packing companies -- but they, at that time, controlled a smaller share of the market than the big four in the beef-packing industry control now.
 Packers claim that the recent boom in cattle prices, which ended with the discovery of mad cow disease in Washington State, proves that the market is working as it should. And the packers defend themselves by pointing out that beef prices for consumers have steadily dropped until recently. But the decline in beef prices may be as dependent on anticompetitive practices as it is on the economic efficiencies of consolidation. In the packing industry, at least, economic efficiency is often another word for unsafe working conditions, recurring problems with meat safety and a squeeze on independent cattle producers. 
 If the jury finds for the plaintiffs, it will be doing, in essence, what the government has failed to do. The government has sat by as the packing industry has steadily become concentrated in fewer and fewer hands with greater and greater political clout, a process that has sharply intensified in the last 20 years. Legislation to prevent packers from owning livestock has been introduced in Congress again and again, but each time it has failed under the weight of industry pressure. We hope the jury will side with the cattle producers and begin a return to more equitable competition in the cattle industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); BEEF (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); VERDICTS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (58%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (58%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (58%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

 
