

801 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reduces Rate by Half-Point; 2nd Cut in 8 Days

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve reduced short-term interest rates on Wednesday for the second time in eight days, meeting widespread expectations by investors on Wall Street for a big rate cut.
 In lowering its benchmark Federal funds rate by half a point, to 3 percent, the central bank acknowledged that it is now far more worried about an economic slowdown than rising inflation, and it left open the possibility of additional rate reductions.
 ''Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households,'' the central bank said in a statement accompanying its decision. In addition, it said, recent data indicated that the housing market is still getting worse and the job market appears to be ''softening.'' 
 Taken together, the back-to-back rate cuts totaling 1.25 percent amounted to the Fed's most aggressive effort in years to head off a recession. By comparison, the Fed under Alan Greenspan reduced the overnight rate by only a half-point after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. 
 The news on Wednesday briefly sent stocks higher on Wall Street. Within minutes after the announcement, the Dow Jones industrial average, which had been down slightly in early afternoon, was up 100 points. But it gave up all those gains and closed down 37 points, or 0.3 percent.
 Hours before the Fed announced its decision, the Commerce Department estimated that the nation's economic growth slowed markedly in the fourth quarter of 2007 to an annual rate of just 0.6 percent from 4.9 percent in the third quarter. 
 The slowdown was sharper than the already-gloomy forecasts of most economists on Wall Street, where the consensus estimate called for fourth-quarter growth of 1.2 percent. 
 The Fed's move on Wednesday came after it electrified investors on Jan. 22 with an even bigger surprise rate cut -- three-quarters of a point -- at a rare unscheduled meeting.
 The Fed cut dovetailed with efforts by Congress and the White House to pass a fiscal stimulus bill that would inject at least another $160 billion into the economy this year in the form of deficit-financed tax rebates for individuals and tax breaks for businesses.
 The House passed a measure earlier this week, after reaching agreement with the Bush administration. The Senate Finance Committee began work Wednesday on a bill that would add more money for unemployment benefits, food stamps and potentially other government spending programs.
 Though House and Senate lawmakers are expected to haggle over the precise shape of the fiscal package, there is a broad political agreement between Democratic leaders in Congress, President Bush and the Federal Reserve on the need for a stimulus package of some kind.
 Taken together, the fiscal package and the Fed's own rate reductions would amount to a one-two punch aimed at jolting the economy enough to keep it out a recession -- or at least mitigate the effects of any downturn that might develop.
 Since the Fed reluctantly began reversing course in August, when credit markets abruptly froze in panic as a result of soaring default rates on subprime mortgages, the central bank has slashed the overnight federal funds rate by almost half in a total of five actions thus far. 
 But policy makers faced difficult questions about how deep to cut rates, and there was widespread uncertainty about whether they would reduce them by a half-percent or by only a quarter-percent. 
 On Wall Street, where the clamor about a recession remains at a fever pitch, investors had betting heavily on a bigger cut and were poised to send stock prices sharply lower if the Fed moved more cautiously.
 Even with the Commerce Department's preliminary estimate on Wednesday of extremely slow growth in the fourth quarter of last year, the evidence of an impending recession is mixed.
 Indeed, many economists estimate that the economy may have added about 100,000 jobs in January -- a big improvement from the nearly stagnant pace in December of 18,000 jobs. 
 Indeed, the ADP monthly survey of job creation, released on Wednesday, estimated that the nation added 130,000 private-sector jobs in January. Though the ADP survey often clashes with the Labor Department's monthly employment report, which is due out on Friday, the results prompted many economists to raise their estimates of job growth in January.
 The Commerce Department reported on Tuesday that orders for all durable goods -- big-ticket items like commercial aircraft and auto parts -- jumped 5.2 percent last month. Excluding orders for transportation goods, which are volatile from month to month, orders climbed 2.6 percent, the first increase since September.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and other Fed officials are already under fire from two directions. Many analysts on Wall Street complain that the central bank has moved too slowly in response to signs of a faltering economy. They point to a plunge in housing that does not seem to have hit bottom, slowing growth in retail sales and tight credit.
 But a significant minority of economists argues that policy makers have let themselves be unnecessarily alarmed by panicky swings in the stock market. If the central bank props up the economy with easy money, they warn, the result will be higher inflation in the future.
 Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Corporation, a Cleveland bank, is skeptical that the economy is headed for a recession, despite the common assumption that it is. ''Few seem to take seriously the prospect that we are not going into a recession,'' said Mr. DeKaser, who cites the latest labor market data, showing fewer weekly claims for unemployment benefits and encouraging layoff numbers, which suggest to him that the nation has added a hefty number of jobs in January. 
 And despite the huge losses and write-offs stemming from subprime mortgages, he added, many business borrowers have yet to face a credit squeeze. 
 Members of the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee, which decides interest rates, have shown clear signs of disagreement among themselves.
 Fed officials acknowledged earlier this month that they had lowered their forecasts for economic growth this year, even though their previous forecast had already assumed a slowdown in the first half of this year. 
 Mr. Bernanke acknowledged on Jan. 10 that the housing market was still in a free fall and that the turmoil in subprime mortgage markets had shaken the broader credit markets. 
 When the Fed surprised investors by cutting its overnight rate at an unscheduled meeting on Jan. 22, officials left little doubt that they would lower the rate yet again at their regularly scheduled two-day policy meeting this Tuesday and Wednesday.
 Fed officials acknowledge that psychology and expectations are playing an important role in the financial markets. To the extent that investors remain fearful about credit risks, markets for mortgage-backed securities are likely to remain dysfunctional and banks will be forced to write down even more of their loan portfolios. 
 But analysts say Mr. Bernanke faces a difficult challenge in trying to manage expectations. On the one hand, they say, the Fed wants to act decisively enough to reassure investors and the public that it will prevent the economy from sinking. On the other hand, they say, Mr. Bernanke does not want to be seen as panicking in response to a plunge in the stock market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INFLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RECESSION (76%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); TERRORISM (67%); TAX LAW (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); EMPLOYMENT (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



802 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Economists Dissect The 'Yuck' Factor

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
You can kill a horse to make pet food in California, but not to feed a person. You can hoist a woman over your shoulder while running a 253-meter obstacle course in the Wife-Carrying World Championship in Finland, but you can't hold a dwarf-tossing contest in France. You can donate a kidney to prevent a death and be hailed as a hero, but if you take any money for your life-saving offer in the United States, you'll be jailed.
 These prohibitions are not imposed because of concerns about health or safety or unfair practices, some economists say, but because people tend to find such activities repugnant. In other words, just hearing about them can cause a queasy sensation in the pit of your stomach.
 People don't pay enough attention to how repugnance affects decisions about what can be bought and sold, asserts Alvin Roth, an economist at Harvard University. 
 Mr. Roth spoke at a recent panel on the economics of repugnance at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization in Washington. For conservatives the issue can be particularly pointed. Economic conservatives tend to favor eliminating as many hindrances on the market as possible, while social conservatives believe some practices are so ''repugnant'' -- because they violate traditional values or religious and moral prohibitions -- that they should be banned from the marketplace altogether. 
 Of course the dividing line between mercenary, soulless capitalists and defenders of human dignity is not always clear. As Mr. Roth pointed out, ideas about what is repugnant change all the time. Selling oneself into indentured servitude was once thought permissible, while charging interest on loans was not.
 In recent years groups have fought over whether it is acceptable to display and sell art that offends religious sensibilities, like a photograph of a crucifix in urine or a sculpture of Jesus on the cross, made out of chocolate. ''Bodies ... The Exhibition'' and similar shows, which feature the preserved and dissected remains of people, would once have been considered both ghoulish and profane. Although religious leaders, human-rights activists and medical officials have condemned the cadaver exhibitions, the displays have attracted millions of visitors in the United States and around the world. 
 And last week a woman in Ohio whose ad to sell a horse mistakenly appeared under the heading ''Good Things to Eat'' in a newspaper's classified section received dozens of calls, some expressing outrage and others from people interested in turning it into dinner. (In Europe and Japan horse meat on a menu would stir no more comment than macaroni and cheese would in an American diner.) 
 Arthur C. Brooks, a professor of government and business at Syracuse University who moderated the Washington panel, spoke of how he -- like thousands of other Americans -- carried $7,000 in hundred dollar bills to ease the adoption of an abandoned baby in China despite a visceral reaction against the idea of buying and selling children. 
 ''It's very hard to predict what's repugnant and what's not,'' Mr. Roth said. Paul Bloom, a professor of psychology at Yale, agreed. He conducted a two-year study to try to get at why people consider athletes who take steroids to be cheating, but not those who take vitamins or use personal trainers. He and his team offered different possibilities: What if steroids were completely natural? Or were not at all harmful? Or were only effective if the athlete had to work harder than before?
 The only change that caused the interviewed subjects to alter their objections to steroids was when they were told that everyone else thought it was all right. ''People have moral intuitions,'' Mr. Bloom said. When it comes to accepting or changing the status quo in these situations, he said, they tended to ''defer to experts or the community.''
 Often introducing money into the exchange -- putting it into the marketplace -- is what people find repugnant. Mr. Bloom asserted that money is a relatively new invention in human existence and therefore ''unnatural.'' 
 Economists are asking the wrong question, Mr. Bloom said at the panel. They assume that ''everything is subject to market pricing unless proven otherwise.''
 ''The problem is not that economists are unreasonable people, it's that they're evil people,'' he said. ''They work in a different moral universe. The burden of proof is on someone who wants to include'' a transaction in the marketplace. (Mr. Roth, who acknowledges that ''economists see very few tradeoffs as completely taboo,'' did not take the criticism personally.)
 The theologian Michael Novak, who is also a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, similarly argued that ''not all ethical principles fit under economic reasoning,'' adding, ''the resistance to money is very old and very deep.'' 
 Money is clearly the issue in situations involving the human body. Paying young women for eggs to be fertilized and men for sperm is now common practice -- even though they are still regularly referred to as ''donors.'' Yet the sale of tissue, cells and eggs for stem-cell research or organs for transplant are still the subject of vehement dispute. 
 Pope John Paul II said that treating human organs as part of any commercial exchange is ''morally unacceptable,'' a view echoed by the Council of Europe's Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine.
 In the United States federal law prohibits the sale or purchase of human organs. The American Kidney Foundation itself opposes payments on the ground that it ''devalues life.'' And the conservative bioethicist Leon Kass, who was chairman of the President's Council on Bioethics from 2002 to 2005, has called the commercialization of body parts ''just inherently wrong.''
 ''If we come to think about ourselves like pork bellies, pork bellies we will become,'' Mr. Kass has written.
 Sally Satel, a psychiatrist and resident scholar at the institute who was herself the recipient of a kidney donation in 2006, asserts that the issue does not need to pit human dignity against saving a life. ''A salaried fireman who saves a life is not less heroic,'' she said. ''An object or act can have a price and still be invaluable.''
 She has forcefully argued in The New York Times Magazine and elsewhere that the sale of human organs with proper oversight to prevent exploitation of the poor should be permitted. There are 74,000 people on the waiting list, and in 2006 about 4,400 died before they could get a kidney. The need is too great, she said. The Nobel Prize-winning economist Gary Becker and his colleague Julio Jorge Elias have even calculated how much a kidney should sell for to eliminate the backlog completely. 
 In recent years Mr. Roth has helped set up ''paired kidney donations,'' in effect, allowing sets of donors and patients to swap kidneys in order to find a compatible one. These kidney exchanges, which started in 2005, have gained growing acceptance nationwide, he said. 
 To Mr. Novak instinctual human revulsion is an important attribute. Quoting Aristotle, he said ''repugnance makes a necessary contribution to the good life, especially when there is not time for intellectual evaluation.'' A number of psychologists, philosophers and biologists (most recently Stephen Pinker, also in The Times Magazine) have similarly argued that repugnance is morality's early warning system, an alarm bell that warns that a subject deserves moral scrutiny. 
 Still, such intuitions are ''not always the best director,'' Mr. Novak said. As in the case of kidney transplants, one must choose ''between two great moral ends,'' he said.
 That is why, he added, ''mere repugnance is not enough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Margo Uusorj and Sandra Kullas of Estonia won the 2006 Wife-Carrying World Championships in Sonkajarvi, Finland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAINA RISSANEN/LEHTIKUVA, VIA REUTERS) (pg.E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); RELIGION (86%); PET FOODS (78%); HORSE MEAT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ORGAN DONATION (71%); EXHIBITIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); FINLAND (93%); FRANCE (88%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ESTONIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008



803 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Citing More Damage, UBS to Post a 2007 Loss

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JULIA WERDIGIER; Mark Landler reported from Frankfurt and Julia Werdigier from London.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
When UBS disclosed in October that it had written down $3.6 billion in mortgage-backed securities, it was praised for biting the bullet.
 In December UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, said it would write down $10 billion more, rattling those who follow the bank, but earning the grudging respect of some for trying to get a real sense of the dimensions of the subprime lending fiasco.
 On Wednesday, UBS warned that it would mark down an additional $4 billion in securities, bringing its total write-down since the subprime lending crisis began to about $18 billion and leading to its first annual loss since it was formed in a merger in 1998. 
 Now, all bets are off. ''This is shocking stuff,'' said Aye Idehen, a fund manager at Kleinwort Benson in London, who holds UBS stock in his portfolio. ''The worrying thing is there seems to be no end to this.''
 UBS is by far the most badly damaged by the credit crisis of big European banks. Its disclosures are symptomatic of how this sad story has made itself known: a steady drip of bad news, stoking fears of more shocks to come and raising doubts about European financial risk management -- even apart from spectacular cases like that of the accused rogue trader at Societe Generale.
 ''This is going to be the pattern for European banks,'' said Simon Adamson, a banking analyst at CreditSights, a research firm in London. ''They're going to keep reporting write-downs.''
 Mr. Adamson said he once hoped that the earnings season now under way would allow banks to draw a line under the subprime-lending crisis. But with the United States at risk of recession and Europe's economy slowing, he worries that the problems are mutating to less risky home mortgages, and even to car loans and credit card debt.
 ''The trends are negative there, too,'' Mr. Adamson said. ''European banks have exposure to these things that they don't even know about. We may have to go through another period of discovery.''
 UBS's four-paragraph statement was troubling in that regard. Of the $4 billion in additional write-downs, the bank said $2 billion was related to the subprime market, and $2 billion stemmed from other parts of the American residential mortgage market. It did not give details in advance of its 2007 results, which it will report on Feb. 14.
 An analyst at JPMorgan, Kian Abouhossein, said he thought the write-downs were related to better-quality mortgages issued to borrowers with decent credit, as well as commercial-backed securities and exposure to bond insurance companies.
 The International Monetary Fund has warned about the spread of losses to better-quality mortgages. In an update of its Global Financial Stability Report, issued Tuesday, the fund said the turmoil in markets had reached a point where credit concerns extended beyond subprime lending.
 Societe Generale, which reported 2 billion euros of credit-related losses last week in addition to the losses from its trader, said they were only partly linked to the mortgage market. Some 550 million euros came from exposure to American bond insurers. 
 BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, said Wednesday that it had 589 million euros in costs linked to the credit crisis, including provisions to hedge its exposure to bond insurers. That caused its fourth-quarter net income to fall 42 percent, to about one billion euros (now $1.49 billion).
 Deutsche Bank, which had $3.1 billion in write-downs, will report its full-year results on Feb. 7. Its chief executive, Josef Ackermann, has called on banks to be more forthright. Analysts said they would not be surprised by additional charges, though Deutsche Bank seems to have escaped the worst of the storm.
 Privately, senior German bankers also express fear that the subprime problem will spread to other forms of credit. State banks like WestLB have suffered heavy losses and remain fragile.
 All told, European banks have absorbed at least $36 billion in write-downs and charges related to the credit crisis. That is less than the damage suffered by Merrill Lynch and Citigroup, but UBS's write-downs alone are nearly as large as Citigroup's.
 In its statement, UBS warned that it would report losses of $11.4 billion in the fourth quarter, almost twice what analysts expected. The bank's shares fell 1.6 percent in trading Wednesday.
 UBS, once known for its conservative lending and investment policies, said in December that it had $29 billion of exposure to subprime assets. The latest losses are likely to renew concerns about its risk management. Switzerland's banking regulator has already said it plans to investigate how UBS managed to accumulate such losses.
 ''A lot of people in the market thought UBS drew a line under its exposure in December,'' said Christian Wiss, a banking specialist at Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller in London. ''Now they've come up with more losses.''
 That could weigh on the bank's reputation and harm the morale of employees, as well as relationships with clients, analysts at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods said.
 UBS, which ousted its chief executive in July, has warned that 2008 would be a tough business year. To replenish its capital base, the bank agreed to sell a stake of more than 10 percent to the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation and an unidentified investor in the Middle East. It also plans to pay its dividend in stock instead of cash and raise further capital through a resale of treasury shares.
 The bank said its Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its financial stability and the strength of its balance sheet, was 8.8 percent as of Dec. 31. While that is above the minimum required by regulators, analysts said its capital base remained vulnerable to additional write-downs and to exposure beyond subprime assets.
 ''UBS is, by a long way, the most exposed to these things in Europe,'' Mr. Adamson of CreditSights said. ''If they come out with further write-downs, are other parts of their franchise going to be damaged?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INSURANCE (68%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); UBS SA (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); AMERICAN RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE CORP (51%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



804 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: After the Fed

 BODY:
Whether or not the Federal Reserve's recent dramatic interest rate cuts are the right medicine for today's stalling economy -- and the jury is very much out on that -- it is clear that the Fed has used up a big chunk of its recession-fighting ammunition in a very short span of time. In just over a week, it has slashed its benchmark interest rate by a total of 1.25 percentage points, to 3 percent. That doesn't leave a lot of room to cut further without opening the door to a potentially nasty upsurge in prices, which are already rising at a worrisome rate, and a possible disorderly decline in the dollar. 
 For now, however, the Fed has obviously concluded (and we hope it's right) that it's more important to try to mitigate current conditions than to worry about hypothetical concerns. Economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2007 slowed to a barely perceptible 0.6 percent. Housing is already in a recession, and manufacturing is headed down. Foreclosures are rising. Lending is constrained. Consumers are pulling back in the face of job uncertainty and a reduced ability to borrow against their homes. 
 The next employment report, due Friday, will provide more evidence of the extent to which jobs and paychecks -- the linchpins of Americans' economic well-being -- are at risk. Last month's report was grim: Employment in the private sector contracted and the ranks of the unemployed swelled. 
 With so much going wrong, even aggressive rate cuts are unlikely to turn things around anytime soon. Lower rates won't loosen lending as long as lenders are preoccupied with mounting losses on securities and existing loans and fearful of more to come. Anxious, debt-burdened and unemployed consumers are unlikely to spend freely. 
 In short, no matter what the Fed does, it will take time, certainly a period of retrenchment, and quite likely of recession, to work off the excesses of the bubble years. That means foreclosures and financial ruin for some, joblessness and belt-tightening for others and less vibrant and less viable communities for many. 
 The damage, now becoming apparent, demands that policy makers take stock of how the economy arrived at this place. The bubbles in housing and mortgages would not have been possible were it not for the progressive deterioration in regulation over the past several decades, culminating for all practical purposes in a regulatory collapse during the Bush years. The antiregulatory ethos, in turn, derived its potency from a pervasive ideology that markets are self-regulating and self-correcting and therefore best handled with incentives and voluntary best practices, rather than rules and boundaries.
 The task of reinforcing the regulatory apparatus of the nation's economy is as formidable a challenge as managing the downturn, and ultimately of more lasting importance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); US DOLLAR (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



805 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: FED MOVES AGAIN, CUTTING KEY RATE BY HALF A POINT

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Peter S. Goodman contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates on Wednesday for the second time in eight days, meeting Wall Street hopes for cheaper money. At the same time, the Senate pushed ahead on a $161 billion plan to prop up Main Street with tax rebates and temporary tax cuts.
 In lowering its benchmark federal funds rate by half a percentage point, to 3 percent, the central bank signaled that it was ready to err on the side of boldness in fending off a possible recession. It also left open the possibility of additional rate cuts.
 The Fed's move was part of a one-two punch by Washington aimed at jolting the economy with easier credit and extra money. Senate Democrats advanced a fiscal stimulus bill that could inject $161 billion into the economy this year through tax rebates for individuals and tax breaks for businesses. 
 If anyone needed more evidence that the economy is stumbling, it came just hours before the Fed announced its decision. The Commerce Department reported that the economy went into a stall in the last quarter of 2007, estimating that growth slowed to an annual rate of 0.6 percent, from 4.9 percent in the third quarter. 
 Despite some disagreement, all the major power centers in Washington -- the White House, Congress and the Federal Reserve -- agree about the need to bolster the economy with both fiscal and monetary policy. 
 The Senate Finance Committee passed a stimulus package on Wednesday that was more expensive than one the House passed on Tuesday, but only three Republicans on the panel voted for it, a signal that bipartisan cooperation may be faltering.
 President Bush, in a speech at the Robinson Helicopter Company in Los Angeles, repeated his call for the Senate to move fast. ''I understand people having their points of view, and of course, we welcome points of view in Washington,'' he said. ''There appears to be a lot of them up there.''
 The big rate cut prompted a rally in stocks, with the Dow Jones industrial average jumping more than 100 points immediately after the Fed announcement. But relief was quickly overshadowed by anxiety about another wave of potential losses tied to subprime mortgage defaults.
 The major stock indexes ended the day slightly below where they had started after reports that credit-rating agencies were poised to lower their ratings on companies that insure bonds containing packages of mortgages. 
 Many economists are far from convinced that even a combination of tax rebates and cheaper money would prevent a recession. And in a sign that bond investors are fretting that the moves could lead to higher inflation, yields on 10-year and 30-year Treasury securities edged up slightly on Wednesday.
 But both Congress and the Fed were under heavy pressure to provide reassurance to their respective constituencies. 
 Noting that ''downside risks remain,'' Fed officials said in a statement accompanying their rate decision that they would ''act in a timely manner as needed to address those risks.''
 The Fed's action was its second big rate reduction in eight days and its fifth rate cut since September. The central bank has reduced overnight lending rates by 1.25 percentage points since Tuesday of last week and by 2.25 percentage points since August. 
 By comparison, under its former chairman, Alan Greenspan, the Fed reduced the overnight rate by only half a percentage point after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, though it eventually pushed its benchmark rate as low as 1 percent in 2003 to encourage an economic recovery.
 The Fed's move on Wednesday came after an even bigger surprise rate cut of three-quarters of a percentage point on Jan. 22 at a rare unscheduled meeting. 
 Among investors, the big uncertainty was whether Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, would persuade his colleagues to cut rates by one-half point or just one-quarter. Investors were betting heavily that the Fed would make the bolder choice, and many analysts predicted investors would pummel stock prices if the Fed disappointed them.
 But Fed officials were already under fire from investors and analysts on Wall Street who complained that the Fed had responded too timidly to signs of a downturn, and from a small but significant number of economists who complained that policy makers were being pushed by the stock market into rash decisions.
 The decision by the Fed's policy-making committee provoked a dissenting vote, by Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He favored no change in rates, but other well-known skeptics about rate reductions voted in favor.
 ''The message came through loud and clear that they are embracing the need for an accommodative monetary policy,'' said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Citigroup. 
 But while many analysts praised Mr. Bernanke and the Fed, some said the Fed had become unpredictable and might end up acting capriciously. 
 While it is clear that economic growth has slowed sharply, the evidence of a looming recession is still ambiguous. Housing construction and home sales have both plunged by more than half over the last 12 months, and home prices are declining in most parts of the country.
 Retail sales were sluggish during the crucial holiday season, but the government estimated on Wednesday that consumer spending climbed at a modest but respectable pace of about 2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 Job creation slowed to a crawl in December, according to the Labor Department's preliminary estimate. But many analysts now predict that the Labor Department, which reports on Friday about January employment, will estimate that the nation added about 100,000 jobs this month.
 Inflation, meanwhile, is running higher than Fed officials would like. In its report on Wednesday about economic growth in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department estimated that consumer prices, excluding energy and food, climbed at an annual pace of 2.7 percent. The Fed's unofficial comfort zone for inflation is 1 percent to 2 percent.
 Congressional leaders were focused on how they could add to what the Fed was already doing.
 The stimulus bill approved by the Senate Finance Committee Wednesday would cost $157 billion in 2008 and $193 billion over two years, roughly $32 billion more than the bill the House passed on Tuesday.
 At the very least, the effort by Senate Democrats to advance their own plan would create some delay in getting a bill to the White House for the president's signature, because it would require Senate and House leaders to reconcile different plans.
 Both the House and Senate proposals offer tax rebates and business incentives to encourage spending. The Senate package would provide tax rebates of up to $500 for individuals and $1,000 for couples, to be phased out for incomes over $150,000 and $300,000, respectively. It would also provide a minimum payment of $500 for all tax filers reporting at least $3,000 in income, and an additional payment for families of $300 per child. 
 The Senate plan is more expensive than the House's in part because it would provide a $500 check to some 20 million elderly whose only income is from Social Security and to about 250,000 veterans living on government benefits. The Senate package also includes a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits.
 But the tepid support among Republicans on the Finance Committee created uncertainty about whether the Democrats, who enjoy only a narrow majority in the Senate, could win the 60 votes they need to avoid a filibuster and bring the bill up for a vote.
 A more immediate obstacle to bringing the stimulus package to the Senate floor was Republican insistence that the Senate first reach an agreement on renewing the Bush administration's terrorist surveillance program, which is a major priority for the White House. Aides said that Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, wanted assurances that the Senate would vote to extend the foreign surveillance program.
 Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said on Wednesday such a deal was within reach, but he called a special meeting of Democratic senators for 10 a.m. Thursday to discuss the surveillance bill and the stimulus plan, indicating that the fate of those bills was now linked.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Lowering Interest Rates: The Federal Reserve lowered its fed funds target rate Wednesday by half a percentage point, to 3 percent. It is the fifth cut since the central bank began lowering this benchmark rate in September. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BONDS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

COMPANY: ROBINSON HELICOPTER CO (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



806 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Quarter's Weak Growth Adds to Signs of Slowdown

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
The United States economy expanded by a weak 0.6 percent annual rate during the last three months of 2007, the government reported Wednesday, offering the latest indication that the economy is already suffering from a substantial slowdown, and perhaps a recession.
 The growth from October to December came in at half the rate forecast by most economists, and it was down strikingly from the 4.9 percent clip registered in the previous quarter. Over all, the economy expanded by 2.2 percent in inflation-adjusted terms for all of 2007, the slowest rate of growth in five years. 
 ''We lost a lot of momentum and stalled in the fourth quarter,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''This reinforces the odds for a recession.''
 Some economists say the fate of the economy is already sealed: while stimulus spending could ease the bite of a downturn, it probably can no longer avert one.
 ''The country is now teetering on the edge of recession,'' wrote Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, in a note to clients. ''It is very doubtful that anything Washington can put together will work fast enough to revive economic activity this year.''
 Yet even as economic activity grinds down, the report released Wednesday by the Commerce Department added fresh reason to worry about inflation -- rising prices propelled by the high cost of energy, food and other crucial goods. The prices of goods purchased by Americans swelled at a rate of 3.8 percent in the last three months of 2007, compared with 1.8 percent in the previous three months. Excluding energy and food, prices still climbed at a 2.5 percent annual rate for the quarter. 
 ''The one-word description of this report is 'stagflation,' '' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, using a term that harks back to the 1970s, when many economies throughout the world experienced, albeit to a much greater degree than today, both rising prices and stagnant growth. ''This isn't exactly great news for the economy going forward.'' 
 The focus now is on what lies ahead. Policy makers and investors are looking to a snapshot of the nation's employment situation to be released on Friday. 
 Over the last three years, the pace of job creation has slowed. This month, the Labor Department reported that the economy added only 18,000 new jobs in December. That report sent markets reeling worldwide and prompted some economists to declare that a recession was a foregone conclusion. It contributed strongly to the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates twice this month.
 But in recent days, fresh signals have suggested that the job market may not be deteriorating. New claims for unemployment have been dropping since mid-December. On Wednesday, the ADP National Employment Report, which tracks changes at companies with payrolls overseen by Automatic Data Processing Inc., reported that the economy added 130,000 new private sector jobs in January.
 The ADP report has been a far from perfect indicator and did not conform to the government's data in the last couple of months. But if it proves a more accurate preview this time, that will cushion against fears of a rapid unraveling.
 The report on the economy substantially damped hopes for another source of cushioning, American exports, whose growth slowed during the fourth quarter to 3.9 percent, from 19.1 percent in the previous three months. 
 The report also reinforced how the unraveling of the American real estate market continues to buffet the economy, with spending on new-home building plunging 23.9 percent in the last three months of 2007 -- the largest quarterly drop in 26 years.
 The report showed only modest erosion in consumer spending, which amounts to 70 percent of the American economy. Such spending grew by 2 percent in the last three months of 2007, the government reported, down from 2.8 percent in the third quarter.
 Indeed, some analysts said fears of a downturn were overblown. The report showed that sales of goods in the United States to businesses, consumers and the government inched up by 1.4 percent in the last quarter -- hardly robust but not a disaster. 
 ''The economy didn't collapse,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a research and trading firm. Global credit markets have already loosened substantially, he said, adding that if the United States can avoid recession for a few more months, the low interest rates delivered by the Fed will kick in, fueling fresh economic activity.
 The slowdown largely resulted from a plunge in inventory as businesses pulled back from amassing products in anticipation of sluggish days ahead. Private businesses like factories and retailers decreased their inventories by $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter after expanding them by $30.6 billion in the third.
 While that is consistent with a slowdown, it also means that inventories are now leaner, making a further sharp pullback in production less likely.
 ''That takes some of the edge off the report,'' Mr. Zandi said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dormant home sites in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif. Spending on new-home building fell 23.9 percent in the fourth quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: REAL ECONOMIC GROWTH: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (87%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



807 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Growth Slowed Drastically in 4th Quarter

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
The United States economy expanded by a disappointingly weak annual rate of 0.6 percent during the last three months of 2007, the government reported Wednesday, offering the latest indication that the United States is already suffering a substantial slowdown, and perhaps a recession.
 The growth from October to December came in at half the rate forecast by most economists, and it was down strikingly from the 4.9 percent clip registered last fall. Over all, the economy expanded by 2.2 percent in inflation-adjusted terms for all of 2007, the slowest rate of growth in five years. 
 ''We lost a lot of momentum and stalled in the fourth quarter,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''This reinforces the odds for a recession.''
 The latest evidence of trouble resounded swiftly in Washington, where the Senate was to take up consideration of a package of tax cuts agreed to last week by the Bush administration and House Democrats aimed at keeping the economy from sliding into recession. 
 ''The stalling of the United States economy last quarter makes the need urgent for significant economic stimulus,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said in a statement. ''Alarm bells should be going off.'' 
 But some economists say the fate of the economy is already sealed: While stimulus spending could ease the bite of a downturn, it can no longer avert one.
 ''The country is now teetering on the edge of recession,'' wrote Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, in a note to clients. ''It is very doubtful that anything Washington can put together will work fast enough to revive economic activity this year.''
 The slowdown reported by the Commerce Department on Wednesday underscored the array of challenges confronting the economy, which has emerged as the key issue in a presidential race that only months ago seemed likely to focus on the war in Iraq. 
 Housing prices have been plummeting, depriving Americans of a crucial source of wealth and curbing spending. Banks have lost tens of billions of dollars on bad mortgage bets, leaving them reluctant to lend, thus dampening new investments. The job market has been slowing, taking wages out of the economy and further constraining growth.
 Yet even as economic activity grinds down, the report added fresh reason to worry about inflation -- rising prices propelled by the high cost of energy, food and other crucial goods. Over all, the prices of goods purchased by Americans swelled by 3.8 percent in the last three months of 2007, compared with 1.8 percent in the previous three months. Excluding energy and food, prices still climbed by 2.5 percent for the quarter. 
 ''The one-word description of this report is 'stagflation,' '' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, using a term that harks back to the 1970s, when many economies throughout the world saw both rising prices and stagnant growth in the midst of an energy crisis. ''This isn't exactly great news for the economy going forward.'' 
 The growing threat of inflation highlighted the difficult ground that must be navigated by the Federal Reserve as it charts policy. In recent months, the Fed has been dropping interest rates aggressively to encourage consumers to spend and businesses to invest, while putting aside worries that cheap credit will exacerbate inflation. Some economists assert the Fed is risking larger problems down the road to stave off immediate discomfort. 
 The Commerce Department report seemed unlikely to alter the Fed's course, economists said. The market has been anticipating that the Fed will ease the rate at which banks lend to one another overnight by another half-point on Wednesday afternoon. That rate indirectly affects rates charged by banks for a host of commercial services, from auto loans to mortgages.
 ''This report is going to mean little to the Fed,'' said Ellen Ms. Zentner United States macroeconomist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York. ''It's a backward looking report.''
 The focus now is on what lies ahead. Policy makers and investors are looking to a snapshot of the nation's employment situation scheduled to be released on Friday. 
 Over the last three years, the pace of job creation has gradually slowed. Earlier this month, the Labor Department reported that the economy added only 18,000 new jobs in December. That report sent markets reeling worldwide and prompted some economists to declare that a recession was a foregone conclusion. It contributed to the Fed's decision to ease interest rates.
 But in recent days, fresh signals have suggested that the job market may not be deteriorating. New claims for unemployment have been dropping since mid-December. On Wednesday, the ADP National Employment Report, which tracks changes at companies with payrolls overseen by ADP, reported that the economy added 130,000 new private sector jobs in January.
 The ADP report has been a far from perfect indicator, but if it proves an accurate preview this time, that would cushion against fears of a rapid unraveling.
 The report on the economy, however, substantially dampened hopes for another source of cushioning: American exports, which slowed during the fourth quarter, to 3.9 percent from 19.1 percent in the previous three months. 
 In recent months, some economists have suggested that American companies might find enough sales abroad to compensate for deteriorating business at home, pointing to faster growing economies in Europe, Asia and Latin America. Slowing export growth suggests that weakening demand for goods in the United States is slowing economies around the world. 
 The report reinforced how the unraveling of the American real estate market continues to assail the economy, with spending on new-home building plunging 23.9 percent in the last three months of 2007 -- the largest quarterly drop in 26 years. The report showed a slight erosion in consumer spending, which amounts to 70 percent of the American economy. Such spending grew by 2 percent in the last three months of 2007, the government reported, down from 2.8 percent in the third quarter.
 ''It's all the headwinds that consumers are facing,'' Ms. Zentner said. ''Consumers have run out of funding now that they can't tap into their houses for finance They're facing high gas prices and overall inflation. They're getting bombarded by headlines about how bad the economy is, which makes them worry about their personal finances.''
 But some analysts said fears of a downturn are overblown, suggesting that the slowdown amounts to the momentary leftovers of the global credit panic that broke out last summer, as the extent of mortgage losses emerged. The report showed that sales of goods in the United States to businesses, consumers and the government inched up by 1.4 percent in the last quarter -- hardly robust but not a disaster. 
 ''The economy didn't collapse,'' said Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a research and trading firm. Global credit markets have already loosened substantially, he said, adding that if the United States can avoid recession for a few more months, the low interest rates delivered by the Fed will then kick in, fueling fresh economic activity.
 The slowdown was largely the result of a plunge in inventory as businesses pulled back from amassing products in anticipation of sluggish days ahead. Private businesses like factories and retailers decreased their inventories by $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter after expanding them by $30.6 billion in the third.
 While that is consistent with a slowdown, it also means that inventories are now lean, making a sharp pullback in production less likely.
 ''That takes some of the edge off the report,'' Mr. Zandi said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); EMPLOYMENT (60%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



808 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Higher Costs Cited as U.S. Shuts Down Coal Project

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Energy Department on Wednesday canceled its main program for demonstrating how to use coal without adding to global warming, saying the project needed an overhaul to rein in soaring costs.
 The announcement ends a program started four years ago and described at the time as ''one of the boldest steps our nation has taken toward a pollution-free energy future.'' The program, called FutureGen, was also intended to provide hydrogen for fuel-cell cars and other uses. 
 But the estimated cost has risen to about $1.8 billion from $1 billion, and officials feared it would increase. The department said it would start over with a new program, but that is unlikely to happen before the Bush administration leaves office. 
 The deputy secretary of energy, Clay Sell, said that the program would be revamped to split off the costs of building a new coal-fired power plant, which would be paid for by the project's industrial partners, from the cost of the technology to capture the emissions of carbon dioxide, which the government would help finance.
 The chief executive of the FutureGen Alliance, the consortium of 13 parties assembled at the Energy Department's invitation to build the plant, said the cancellation would set back the effort by at least two years and probably four, at a time when companies are making construction decisions on plants that will operate for decades. 
 The executive, Michael Mudd, said that the cost increase had been driven by inflation in plant construction costs, and not by any change in the scope of the project or its technical challenges. The FutureGen Alliance announced in December that it had chosen a site in Mattoon, Ill., for construction, with the carbon dioxide being injected into the ground nearby. 
 About $50 million has been spent, with about $40 million of that taxpayer money, he said. 
 Utilities are reporting rapidly rising prices for stainless steel, concrete, labor and other components of plant construction.
 Mr. Sell said the Energy Department had not realized how much the cost had risen until it signed an agreement with the 13 partners nearly a year ago, which called for the department to pay 74 percent, and the partners, including some from China, Germany, Britain and Australia to pay the remaining 26 percent. 
 Having the government pay only for the capture and disposal portion was a better deal for taxpayers, he said. 
 ''We are much much more confident in this approach moving forward than we were in the previous one,'' he said. 
 But Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, criticized the cancellation and said he would seek to revive the project.
 ''Who can take the secretary seriously at this point?'' he asked. ''What community, what state, would make application for a new plant after what we have just been through in Illinois?''
 He said the state's Congressional delegation was ''determined to find an environmentally responsible way to use our coal to generate electricity.''
 In his State of the Union address, President Bush called for a continued push for clean-coal technology but argued against the use of so-called earmarks by lawmakers to insist upon spending on pet projects.
 Mr. Sell said that the cancellation did not represent a step away from coal as a fuel.
 ''We believe in the future of coal,'' he said. The budget request that the White House will send to Congress next week will include $648 million for new ''clean coal'' research, 25 percent more than the request for the current year, he added.
 Mr. Sell said the new approach was justified because in contrast to 2003, several private companies are now planning to build gasification plants, and it would be easier to piggyback on one of those. The plant can be built so the end project is hydrogen, which is burned in a jet engine for conversion to electricity. 
 But he acknowledged that the decision to start over also backs away from that technology decision. The new structure, he said, would allow for a conventional plant that pulverizes coal and burns it, with the carbon dioxide captured from the smokestack.
 Ernest J. Moniz, under secretary of energy in the Clinton administration and an author of a report by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on the future of coal, said the new approach could work well, but ''I'd like to see us get going quickly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (56%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



809 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHIFTING CAREERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Riding the Falling Dollar Into Foreign Markets

BYLINE: By MARCI ALBOHER

 BODY:
THE declining dollar spurred Peggy Karr Glass to exhibit its handmade fused glass products at a spring trade show in London. 
 ''We decided that if we could ever get a foothold in Europe, this would be the time to try,'' said Tim Seitz, senior vice president of the company. 
 In fact, a wide range of small businesses in the United States -- from manufacturers and designers who see their products as a bargain for euro-rich customers to service providers -- have started to take advantage of the exchange rate. 
 ''We are hearing about the credit crisis every day, but we are not hearing enough about how the weak dollar is a good thing for business,'' said Raphael Amit, a professor of entrepreneurship at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''It is one of the things that will help prevent a recession. When the dollar is weak, imports are more expensive. So relatively speaking, domestic production and services are more competitive. Simple as that.'' 
 The added benefit of falling interest rates, Professor Amit said, creates an ideal climate for certain small businesses to flourish. ''As interest rates go down, manufacturers can take out loans and use that money to finance the purchase of raw materials and capital equipment,'' he said. 
 Sales at Peggy Karr Glass had begun to slow, and it was considering new outlets for its wares, Mr. Seitz said, when it received a fax this month from White Hound Advertising, an American company that has been working to persuade manufacturers in the United States to give Europe a chance. 
 In fact, White Hound Advertising sent out many faxes promoting the London Spring Fair trade show to companies that were gearing up for the gift industry's biggest trade show, which starts next week at the Jacob Javits Convention Center in New York. Adam Ash, White Hound's president, said he had formerly represented American companies wanting to go to Europe to buy products. But he is now focusing on attracting American companies that want to sell in Europe. 
 ''I buy blocks of space at these shows and fill it with U.S.-based vendors,'' Mr. Ash said. His firm also provides consolidated freight, warehousing and inexpensive lodging to exhibitors to make the whole export process less daunting. 
 Manufacturers have to weigh the risks of going overseas, so Mr. Ash says he tries to minimize the costs and absorb as much of the risk as possible. He also helps companies decide if the overseas market is appropriate for their products. 
 Manufacturers are not the only small businesses hoping to capitalize on the discounted dollar. MBS Value Partners, a boutique investor relations firm in New York, has seen signs of interest from potential clients in Europe and Latin America, which it directly attributes to the state of the dollar. In the past, according to Lynn Morgen, a founder of MBS Value Partners, companies based in London had a stronghold in helping foreign companies navigate American financial markets. 
 ''We have also seen opportunities to represent different kinds of companies,'' Ms. Morgen said. ''It's a lot like what you're seeing on Fifth Avenue. It used to be just the richest people coming to shop, and now it's everyone. Well, it's the same for us. We are now hearing from midsize European companies, which in the past might not have had the budget to hire a firm to help gain additional visibility within the U.S. financial and business community. So we are seeing both an increased amount of interest from foreign companies, and that demand is coming from new segments of the marketplace.'' 
 When MBS Value Partners was founded in July 2006, serving foreign clients was not a core part of the firm's strategy. ''We have a solid group of domestic clients we are very happy to work with,'' Ms. Morgen said. ''But it is always good to have a global client base. With different clients, we learn different things.'' 
 The ebb and flow of global markets was part of the reason Handlery Hotels in California decided to pursue foreign travelers 30 years ago. The Web site for the hotel company, a family-owned business, is translated into seven languages, and Jon Handlery, senior vice president, makes regular marketing visits to travel agents overseas. The philosophy, according to Mr. Handlery, goes something like this: ''One year the pound might be strong so we increase marketing in the U.K. Another year it could be Japan. Things could shift globally year to year and we adjust accordingly.'' 
 At the moment, the strategy is paying off. ''Right now America is on sale,'' he said, ''which is good news both for foreign travelers and Americans who have decided it is too expensive to travel abroad.''
 For some businesses, like Lost Canyon Winery in Oakland, Calif., the weak dollar has had mixed effects. Bob Riskin, one of the partners, said the relatively low cost of American wines compared with European ones has attracted customers in Canada and parts of Asia. Mr. Riskin said he was also looking elsewhere but ''there are certain markets which are less conducive to American wines than others.'' France and Italy, for instance, ''aren't looking to see how many American wines they can put on wine lists,'' he said. ''But in the U.K. and Scandinavia, it's different.'' 
 But even as Lost Canyon has been able to enter new markets, it is also facing rising costs for barrels, which are imported from France, and corks, imported from Portugal. ''When we started this business in 2001, we were paying $630 or $650 a barrel. Now it is close to $1,000.'' The company has more than 200 barrels in the winery and uses each one only twice because they do not lend the right flavor to the wine after that. ''We can't do much about that because these barrels from France have unique characteristics we can't get in America,'' Mr. Riskin said, ''but we are looking for options.''
 Of course, companies that rely primarily on overseas production or exports to the United States are anything but enthusiastic about the dollar's decline. And even the small businesses now well positioned know that market conditions can change at any time. ''It's a window of opportunity even if it won't last forever,'' said Steven Wieting, an economist at Citigroup, adding that any areas with positive growth should be viewed in context. ''Small business over all has had a hard time in the past couple of years.''
 And then there is the question of what would happen should the dollar stabilize. Ms. Morgen of MBS Value Partners said she was not worried. ''We look at this as a great opportunity to open a door,'' she said. ''We are confident that once the door is opened, we'd stay put for the long term.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lynn Morgan is a founder of MBS Value Partners, an investor relations consulting firm that has attracted foreign clients. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EURO (76%); INDUSTRIAL PURCHASING (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



810 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Big-Donor Politics Elude North Dakota

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Aron Pilhofer contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: BISMARCK, N.D. 

 BODY:
Consider the tactic one local Democratic Party leader in this state resorted to last summer to raise money. He chained hot-pink plywood elephants, 2 1/2 feet tall and 2 1/2 feet wide, to trees in the yards of known Democrats, then offered to remove the Republican beasts in exchange for $25 donations.
 ''People loved it mostly, though I guess one or two didn't see the humor,'' said the leader, C. T. Marhula, the party's chairman for a district in Grand Forks, noting that he and his colleagues had also tried pig roasts, garage sales and auctions to raise political money. ''You do what you have to.''
 In North Dakota, it seems, you may have to do a lot. 
 By far, this state has trailed the nation in large donations per capita to the presidential candidates, an analysis of the candidates' early contributions of $200 or more shows. While donors in New York gave more than $2.50 a person, if every person in the state gave (for a total of more than $48 million), and California gave more than $1.40 for each person (for a total of more than $51 million), North Dakotans offered up 9 cents a person (for a grand total of $57,613).
 ''Well, that's 9 cents more than I gave,'' Clark D. Crawford, an undecided voter, said as he ate chili in a Bismarck coffee shop. ''You can't change an election by giving a hundred bucks or a thousand bucks. And you wouldn't want to anyway. It's like a bribe.''
 In a restaurant housed in what once was the Patterson Hotel, where decades of political deals were made in this state capital, Mary Barbere said that she was put off by all the talk of money swirling around campaigns, adding, ''You shouldn't buy your way into politics.''
 Residents said they were not surprised by North Dakota's standing in political giving so far this season, and were even a bit pleased by its last-place finish.
 Political experts in the state explain it as some combination of North Dakota's culture, its political history and its isolation. People here are frugal. Their politicians know them personally. (In a state with only 635,000 people, you have to.) And with only three electoral votes at stake and (at least) one long plane ride to get here from just about anywhere, few presidential candidates have come calling for residents' money.
 The New York Times's state-by-state analysis looks at donations reported to the Federal Election Commission through the end of September; contributions since then must be reported to the commission on Thursday. The analysis does not include donations of less than $200 since details of those gifts are not required by the election commission. Of $372 million reported so far by all candidates, it is impossible to be sure where some $65 million in smaller contributions came from.
 Still, the analysis offers one glimpse of where big donors are -- and are not. 
 The District of Columbia (not surprisingly given its industry of workers there with government ties) was a huge supplier of money, and several East Coast states followed close behind. The population of a state seemed to matter little; states with even smaller populations than North Dakota -- like Wyoming and Vermont -- ranked fairly high, giving an average of 80 cents or more per capita.
 Aside from Illinois, most Midwestern states fell in the bottom half of per capita giving, leading some political experts to attribute the differences in donations, including North Dakota's, to more modest standards of living in the country's middle.
 But North Dakotans say the state's economy, both in agriculture and in energy, has soared in the last year. Voter interest, too, runs high in these parts, people here said. In the last presidential election, 316,049 people voted, or about 65 percent of the state's voting-age population. (There is no pool of registered voters here to consider; North Dakota is the only state in the country where voters simply show up.)
 But all of that does not translate into big political donations. Historically, campaigns here have been relatively cheap. Gov. John Hoeven, a Republican, raised about $900,000 for his last race, in 2004.
 ''You have to remember, in North Dakota, $100,000 goes a long ways,'' said Alvin A. Jaeger, the secretary of state and also a Republican. ''Frankly, I think most of us think that there's an out-of-whack amount of money from special interests and other places trying to buy elections in North Dakota. We're more concerned about stopping people from buying elections in North Dakota than whether people here should be trying to buy elections elsewhere.''
 Campaigns here are more about personal meetings with candidates than anything else, said Mark S. Jendrysik, the chairman of the political science department at the University of North Dakota.
 The biggest evidence of this may be the strange partisan makeup of the political leaders here. Republicans dominate the state leadership positions, and have easily won recent presidential fights, yet all three of North Dakota's politicians in Congress are Democrats (the junior of them were first elected in 1992). People here know them. They bring money home to North Dakota. They drop by a lot.
 ''Even for a statewide political campaign, you have to get to the lutefisk feed,'' Mr. Jendrysik said. ''Putting commercials on TV is not going to work. And there's a feeling that you shouldn't be doing the fund-raising, that it's somehow corrupting. A lot of people look sort of askance at all the money that's been spent in places like South Dakota.''
 Then, there is the little matter of asking. Although the state's caucuses are set for Feb. 5 (as are primaries and caucuses in 23 other, nearly all more populous states), it is not always easy to be sure there is a presidential election under way. Candidates have opened offices in the state, but many people here say that until the last week or so, they had not seen a television advertisement or gotten a phone call. 
 ''There isn't any coordinated effort to raise money from the national campaigns,'' Jamie Selzler, the executive director of the Democratic Party here, said. ''So this isn't indicative of North Dakota's ability to raise money.''
 With a few exceptions -- most notably, a trip by Rudolph W. Giuliani to Fargo in November, which everyone from every party seems to have heard about -- the state is largely a blank when it comes to candidate appearances.
 Kevin Cramer, Mr. Giuliani's state party chairman and a state public service commissioner, said Mr. Giuliani's appearance at a fund-raiser in Fargo raised a remarkable, perhaps unprecedented amount, close to $50,000. (Money from that event will be officially reported in the coming Federal Election Commission report.) 
 ''Tradition and culture has meant getting very, very little from the state,'' said Mr. Cramer, himself a former Republican state chairman who is leading a drive lately to raise $300,000 in 300 days to pay off the party's headquarters building in Bismarck. (The drive raised $125,000 in the first 200 days; now he needs the rest.) 
 ''Money is here in North Dakota, but it comes back to the very fundamental point of not being asked,'' Mr. Cramer said of the presidential campaigns. ''And coming to ask is complicated. You can't exactly make a quick swing by on the way to Florida or something when every minute counts. We're not really on the way to a lot of places.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clark D. Crawford said of the large gifts to political campaigns, ''It's like a bribe.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mary Barbere, in Bismarck, N.D., said she was put off by all the talk of money swirling around political campaigns. ''You shouldn't buy your way into politics,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 North Dakota Democrats, like State Representative Eliot Glassheim, took part in a fund-raising drive in which Democrats paid $25 for removal of the Republican symbol placed in their yards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. T. MARHULA) MAP: A FRUGAL STATE: North Dakota ranks last in the nation in large donations per capita to presidential candidates, a New York Times analysis of individual contributions of more than $200 found. Many other Midwest states were among the smallest givers. (Sources: Federal Election Commission and Census Bureau) Map showing North Dakota as the smallest donor to presidential candidates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (91%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



811 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: Home & Garden Calendar

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
New York: Images and Preservation
 Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street; (212) 534-1672. 
 The museum will present images of New York City by Rudy Burckhardt (1914 to 1999), a photographer, filmmaker and painter, and by his wife, Yvonne Jacquette, a painter, in two exhibitions that will open on Feb. 1. The first, ''Street Dance: The New York Photographs of Rudy Burckhardt,'' is an exhibition of everyday scenes like skyscrapers, storefronts and New Yorkers on the sidewalks and subways (through April 13). There are 90 black and white photographs in Street Dance, mostly taken over a 50-year period starting in the 1930s. ''Under New York Skies: Nocturnes by Yvonne Jacquette'' is a series of 30 paintings and pastels depicting the city at night, from an aerial vantage point (through May 4). ''Picturing New York: The Art of Yvonne Jacquette and Rudy Burckhardt,'' a publication to be released for the exhibitions, looks at the couple's work and their influence on the art scene in New York beginning in the 1930s. 
 ''John Sloan's New York,'' an exhibition of 34 prints, continues through Feb. 24. It includes the 13 original etchings known as the ''New York Life Series,'' commenced in 1904.
 The museum is open Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission is $9; students and those 62 and older, $5; families, $20; children 12 and younger, free. More information: mcny.org.
 The museum and the New York Preservation Archive Project will offer ''Preserving New York -- Then and Now,'' a daylong symposium at the museum, on Feb. 23, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Among the presentations will be a keynote address by Anthony C. Wood, the author of ''Preserving New York: Winning the Right to Protect a City's Landmarks'' (Routledge, 2007); a discussion about preservation and progress between the architect Robert A.M. Stern, the dean of the Yale School of Architecture, and Kenneth T. Jackson, the Jacques Barzun Professor of History and the Social Sciences at Columbia University; and panel discussions about the civic sector and the way preservation is portrayed in the media. The fee for the symposium is $30; members, $25. Reservations are required, at the museum's Web site or by calling (212) 534-1672, ext. 3395. More information is at nypap.org. 
 A Singular Designer
 Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology, Seventh Avenue at 27th Street; (212) 217-4558. 
 ''Madame Gres: Sphinx of Fashion,'' an exhibition of 67 garments made by Madame Alix Gres, the Parisian designer, will be at the museum from Feb. 1 through April 19. Madame Gres was influential, and private in her work and personal life. Madame Gres was known for the so-called ''goddess gown,'' a classically inspired pleated silk gown; for designing clothing inspired by ethnic garments like the sari, which is draped rather than sewn; and for the use of materials like lightweight taffeta or heavy wools to create a three-dimensional sculptural look for her coats and dresses. 
 ''Exoticism,'' an exhibition exploring the influence of non-Western styles, textiles, imagery and construction on fashion, continues through May 7. 
 Hours: Tuesday through Friday, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Information: fitnyc.edu/museum.
 A New Year
 Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue (Eastern Parkway), Prospect Heights; (718) 623-7230.
 The garden will welcome 4075 with a Lunar New Year celebration and flower market on Feb. 3, from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. There will be guided tours of the garden's collection of plants native to China, Korea and Vietnam, such as orchids and camellias, in English at 11 a.m., noon and 1 p.m. and in Mandarin at 2 p.m., as well as a tour for children at 3 p.m. The flower market will be open all day. It will feature Meyer lemon and quince trees; bamboo, orchid, cyclamen and azalea plants; and fresh-cut flowers like dahlias, gladioli, lilies and mums. 
 There will be ongoing craft workshops for children from noon to 4 p.m.; brush painting classes for adults at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m.; and a daylong display of artwork by women from rural China at the Steinhardt Conservatory gallery. 
 Performances will be offered by the Red Silk Dancers, a Chinese company, at noon; the Korean Traditional Music and Dance Institute of New York, which will perform at 1:30 p.m.; and the Qi Shu Fang Peking Opera at 3 p.m. All events are free with garden admission of $8; students and those 65 and older, $4; those 12 and younger, free. More information: bbg.org.
 A Map in Decay and Renewal
 Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; (718) 592-9700. 
 Two exhibitions will take a look at the New York State Pavilion designed by Philip Johnson for the 1964 World's Fair. The open-air site included a depiction of New York State in the form of a Texaco road map measuring 130 feet by 166 feet, which was embedded in the terrazzo floor. 
 ''Back on the Map: Revisiting the New York State Pavilion at the 1964-65 World's Fair,'' which continues through May 4, looks at the pavilion and efforts to restore parts of the map. The exhibition includes photographs of the pavilion as it was in 1964 and the conservation efforts, which began in 2006. Visitors will be able to watch conservators at work. 
 ''Anthony Auerbach, Empire State Pavilion,'' also through May 4, is an installation of the map as it looked in early 2006. Mr. Auerbach documented the decaying floor, which had plants pushing up through the map, through a series of 2,500 aerial photographs. 
 ''New York States of Mind'' continues through March 23. The exhibition explores the work of 31 artists from different backgrounds, and how their work was influenced by New York City. Exhibited works include ''African-American Flag'' (1990) by David Hammons; ''Times Square Star Gazing'' (2005), a photo collage by Hans Haacke; and ''Louis XVI, the Sun King'' (2006), a cast-marble statue by Kehinde Wiley.
 Open Wednesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Admission is $5; students and those 62 and older, $2.50; members and children under 5, free. Information: www.queensmuseum.org.
 A Prince's Garden
 Gallery of the New York School of Interior Design, 161 East 69th Street; (212) 472-1500.
 ''Watercolors from the Highgrove Florilegium,'' 75 watercolors by 48 artists of plants, fruits and vegetables grown at Highgrove, a property owned by Prince Charles, will be on display through April 12. Hours: Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Information: nysid.edu.
 The exhibition will include a lecture series, which will continue on Feb. 20 with Martin Lane Fox, a landscape architect. The other speakers will be Patrick Bowe, a horticulture historian, who will speak on Roman gardens on March 12; and David Cadman, an urban land economist, who will discuss green design and sustainability on April 9. Reservations are required; all lectures at 6 p.m. Fee, each lecture, $35.
 Porcelain at Court 
 Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, 18 West 86th Street; (212) 501-3011.
 ''Fragile Diplomacy: Meissen Porcelain for European Courts,'' an exhibition of 300 works, continues through Feb. 10. Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Thursdays until 8 p.m.) Admission: $3; those 65 and older, $2; children under 12, free.
 Leopold Foulem and Cornelia Thomsen, both ceramic artists, will talk about how the physical qualities of porcelain inform their work on Jan. 31 at 6 p.m. Fee: $25; students and those 65 and older, $17. Reservations: telephone or e-mail message to programs@bgc.bard.edu Information: www.bard.edu/bgc.
 Stitchery
 Museum of Arts & Design, 40 West 53rd Street; (212) 956-3535.
 ''Pricked: Extreme Embroidery,'' 60 contemporary artworks, some made from unusual materials like found gloves, will continue through April 27 .
 Among the objects on display are designs by Nava Lubelski on found pieces of stained linen, and portraits by Maria E. Pineres of celebrities like Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr. Also: a video of a digital embroidery machine stitching a map of the proposed Mexican border barrier by Ana de la Cueva. 
 Hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays). Admission $9; students and those 65 and older, $7; children 12 and under, free. Information: madmuseum.org.
 A Culture of Carving
 American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street; (212) 265-1040. 
 ''Gilded Lions and Jeweled Horses: The Synagogue to the Carousel,'' an exhibition about the influence of Jewish woodcarvers from Eastern Europe on American folk art, will continue through March 23. Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (Fridays until 7:30 p.m.). Admission: $9; students and those 62 and older, $7; children under 12, free. Information: folkartmuseum.org and gildedlions.org.
 On Design 
 Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street; (212) 849-8400.
 ''Multiple Choice: From Sample to Product,'' an exhibition of sample books for wallpaper, textiles, ribbons and lace, continues through April 6. The books, from the 18th through the 20th centuries, offer insights into consumer tastes, and serve as an historical record of design. 
 Hours: Monday through Thursday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Friday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. Admission is $15; students and those 62 and older, $10; children under 12, free. Information: cooperhewitt.org.
 Seaside History 
 Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway at Washington Avenue; (718) 638-5000.
 ''Goodbye Coney Island,'' a collection of photographs from the 1870s to the present, continues through April 6 in the Visible Storage Study Center. 
 Hours: Wednesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. ( First Saturday of every month, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.).
 Suggested contribution: adults, $8; students and those 62 and older, $4; children under 12, free. Information: brooklynmuseum.org.
 Playful Inspirations
 New England Quilt Museum, 18 Shattuck Street off Market Street, Lowell, Mass.; (978) 452-4207. 
 ''Puzzled and Board,'' an exhibition of quilts inspired by games and puzzles, will continue through March 29. Hours: Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on the fourth Friday of every month). Admission: $5; $4 for students and those 60 and older. Information: nequiltmuseum.org.
 Design in Philadelphia
 Ruth and Raymond G. Perelman Building of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Fairmount and Pennsylvania Avenues, Philadelphia; (215) 763-8100. 
 ''Designing Modern: 1920 to the Present,'' an chronological look at the museum's collection of modern and contemporary decorative art, continues through April 30. 
 Among the other exhibitions in the Perelman building, which is new, are fashions by three Philadelphia designers, James Galanos, Gustave Tassell and Ralph Rucci (through March 9); photography by Alfred Stieglitz (through Feb. 17); and sculpture by, among others, Picasso, Anselm Kiefer, Sol LeWitt, Mark di Suvero and Richard Long (through May 25). 
 Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (main building, Friday evenings until 8:45 p.m.). Admission: $14; those 62 and older, $12; students, $10; age 12 and younger, free. (Sundays, pay what you wish.) Information: philamuseum.org.
 Textile Arts
 Textile Museum, 2320 S Street NW, Washington; (202) 667-0441.
 ''Private Pleasures: Collecting Contemporary Textile Art,'' works from the mid-20th-century to the present, will continue through Feb. 17. Hours: Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. Suggested donation: $5. Information: textilemuseum.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); PAINTING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); FAMILY (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (62%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



812 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Text of Federal Reserve Statement

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to lower interest rates by half a percentage point: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate 50 basis points, to 3 percent.
 Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households. Moreover, recent information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets.
 The committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, but it will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully.
 Today's policy action, combined with those taken earlier, should help to promote moderate growth over time and to mitigate the risks to economic activity. However, downside risks to growth remain. The committee will continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and will act in a timely manner as needed to address those risks.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Frederic S. Mishkin; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. Voting against was Richard W. Fisher, who preferred no change in the target for the federal funds rate at this meeting. 
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 50-basis-point decrease in the discount rate, to 3.5 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City and San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (66%); GEORGIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



813 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: United Parcel Service Swings to a Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
United Parcel Service Inc., the package delivery company, reported a quarterly loss on Wednesday because of a $6.1 billion pension-related charge. The company also forecast weak first-quarter earnings. 
 U.P.S., based in Atlanta, reported a fourth-quarter loss of $2.58 billion, or $2.46 a share, in contrast to a profit of $1.13 billion, or $1.04 a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding the charge, it earned $1.13 a share. Analysts, on average, expected $1.12, according to Reuters Estimates.
 An analyst at Bear Stearns, Edward M. Wolfe, wrote in a research note that U.P.S. should be able to take advantage of restructuring at a rival, DHL Worldwide Express, and of labor issues at the FedEx Corporation to ''quickly reassert pricing power once demand improves.''
 U.P.S. shares rose $1.77, to $72.69.
 Company executives said they expected the United States economy to expand at a slower pace in 2008, with growth of 1 percent to 2 percent.
 The chief financial officer, Kurt P. Kuehn, said there was ''certainly a risk of a recession.''
 Mr. Kuehn said the weak dollar should also continue to help American exports in 2008, while package traffic between Asia and Europe should continue to register robust growth.
 Like FedEx, U.P.S. is seen as a barometer of the American economy, based on the premise that companies and consumers ship more packages in a healthy economy.
 ''U.P.S. is effectively managing through the slower environment, which is likely to persist in 2008,'' an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Company, Jon A. Langenfeld, wrote in a research note. ''However, longer term we see U.P.S. as well positioned as one of the most diversified global transport providers able to take advantage of the increasingly complex global supply chains.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (93%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); EXPORT TRADE (51%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (95%); FEDEX CORP (83%); DHL VERWALTUNGS GMBH (70%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (95%); FDX (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (95%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (95%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (83%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (83%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



814 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Rally Sputters in a Late-Day Sell-Off

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
A Fed rally on Wall Street abruptly fizzled Wednesday as excitement over an interest rate cut gave way to concern about a new round of problems related to subprime mortgages.
 Markets began a late-day slide after a leading agency cut its credit rating on Financial Guaranty, one of the nation's largest bond insurers. Many investors are concerned that bond insurers will be forced to renege on their guarantees of bonds linked to risky home loans, worsening the credit problems facing the financial industry.
 The Dow Jones industrials tumbled to a 37-point loss, closing at 12,442.83, down 0.3 percent. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 0.5 percent to finish at 1,355.81. The Nasdaq dropped 9.06 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,349. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 104 24/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.67 percent, from 3.68 percent.
 The late sell-off, which accelerated in the final minutes of trading, erased all the gains from an afternoon rally that started after the Federal Reserve lowered its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point.
 The daily Dow chart went vertical at 2:15 p.m., with the blue-chip index gaining more than 170 points within 45 minutes of the central bank's announcement.
 But the enthusiasm quickly waned. ''The normal reaction to the Fed ease gave way in the last hour to renewed fears that bond insurers would have their ratings cut,'' said James W. Paulsen, a strategist at Wells Capital Management.
 The late-day seesaw may also have reflected investors' anxieties over the state of the economy. The Fed's half-point cut was welcomed by investors, who had already priced the move into the market. But it came on the heels of a bleak report on the economy's growth last quarter, which added to concerns about a recession.
 The Fed has cut the federal funds rate -- which helps determine rates on mortgages, auto loans and other transactions that affect most consumers -- by 1.25 percentage points this month alone. Fed officials signaled in a statement accompanying the announcement that they would be willing to cut further if financial conditions continued to deteriorate.
 The afternoon's volatility capped off a day that began quietly on Wall Street, as the markets responded with some ambivalence to a disquieting report on economic growth. The American economy grew at a paltry annual rate of 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said Wednesday morning.
 Economists had estimated growth of twice that amount. The report showed that export sales slowed considerably, weakening one of the remaining support pillars of the ailing economy. Consumers spent less as well, clamping down on a major driving force of the overall economy.
 But while the report seemed to reinforce fears of a recession, investors appeared to take a wait-and-see approach, focusing on how the Fed would move in the afternoon. Futures markets had predicted a half-point cut, but some investors were concerned that the central bank would choose a more conservative quarter-point reduction, which might have resulted in a sell-off.
 Some analysts did not expect a cheerful reaction to the Fed's announcement. ''The Fed move was so widely anticipated that I was surprised the market celebrated at all,'' said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird. 
 The Fed decision came amid a string of weak earnings reports, including a bleak profit outlook at Yahoo, which announced layoff plans. Its stock price tumbled 8.5 percent, to $19.05 a share.
 The financial sector also suffered another jolt from the subprime mortgage crisis, as two major European banks announced a new round of housing-related problems. UBS of Switzerland said it would take $14 billion off its fourth-quarter balance sheet. BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, said its profit fell 42 percent last quarter.
 Investors now turn to the national employment report on Friday for a clearer view of the economic outlook. Economists expect the Labor Department to report a gain of 63,000 jobs for January after a weak gain of 18,000 jobs in December. A less cheerful report could persuade investors that a recession has already begun.

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



815 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 645 words

 BODY:
FED CUTS RATE AGAIN The Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates for the second time in eight days, lowering the federal funds rate by half a percentage point and meeting Wall Street hopes for cheaper money. At the same time, Congress worked on a $160 billion economic stimulus plan. 
 The economy expanded by a weak 0.6 percent annual rate in the last three months, the latest sign of a substantial slowdown, and perhaps a recession. [C4.] 
 A Fed rally on Wall Street abruptly fizzled and gave way to concern about a new round of problems related to the subprime mortgage crisis. [C13.] 
 SHOPPING FOR FORTUNOFF 
 The owner of the Lord & Taylor department store chain is close to buying Fortunoff, the New York jewelry and housewares retailer struggling with slumping sales and heavy debt. [C1.] 
 LILLY SETTLEMENT TALKS Eli Lilly and federal prosecutors are discussing a settlement of a civil and criminal investigation into the company's marketing of the antipsychotic drug Zyprexa that could result in Lilly's paying more than $1 billion to federal and state governments. [A1.] 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa said that a diabetes specialist had leaked a confidential information to GlaxoSmithKline, tipping the company to the publication of safety questions involving its diabetes drug Avandia. [C10.] 
 REPRIEVE FOR BANK'S CHIEF Directors of Societe Generale gave the chief executive, Daniel Bouton, a reprieve, though insiders said it might last less than a month. Mr. Bouton's job has been in jeopardy after a rogue trader racked up $7.1 billion in losses. [C1.] 
 EXPORTING HIGH SECURITY The Commerce Department, responding to the growing involvement of American security companies in China in the run up to the Olympics, is drafting new rules on what security equipment companies can sell to China. [C1.] 
 A BROKEN DEAL, IN COURTAlliance Data Systems sued the Blackstone Group, seeking to force the private equity firm to complete its $6.4 billion buyout. The lawsuit follows other troubled private equity deals that became legal fights. [C6.] 
 LAZARD'S STRONG QUARTER Lazard, the investment bank run by Bruce Wasserstein, reported a 43 percent jump in its fourth-quarter profit, setting itself apart from banks reporting steep losses. It was Lazard's second consecutive quarter of strong growth. [C5.] 
 UNDERSEA CABLES CUT Two undersea telecommunication cables in the Mediterranean were cut, disrupting service in Egypt and India. [C2.] 
 WARNING ON BOND INSURERS A hedge fund manager warned that two pillars of the financial markets -- the bond insurers MBIA and Ambac Financial -- might suffer crippling losses. [C1.] 
 NEW MENU AT STARBUCKS A turnaround plan for Starbucks calls for, among other things, discontinuing warm breakfast sandwiches and focusing on healthy breakfast options and high-quality baked goods. [C4.] 
 COAL PROJECT CANCELED The Energy Department canceled its program for demonstrating how to use coal without adding to global warming, saying the project needed an overhaul to rein in soaring costs. [C5.] 
 AMAZON'S MIXED MESSAGE Amazon.com, the leading online retailer, reported a strong holiday season that pushed revenue up 42 percent in its fourth quarter. But the company also reported lower profit margins. [C4.] 
 Violence stays on the field The action may get rough on Sunday in the Super Bowl. But the advertisers will be taking a milder, sweeter approach. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C11.] 
 A BARGAIN OVERSEAS A wide range of small businesses in the United States -- from manufacturers to service providers --are taking advantage of the exchange rate by selling overseas. Small Business. [C9.] 
 BASEBALL'S HOME IN HARLEM Major League Baseball plans to build a home in Harlem for its new cable network. It would be the first prime office tower built in Harlem in more than three decades. [B1.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: Lazard's price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (67%); DIABETES (66%); INSURANCE (65%); COAL MINING (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%); SUBPRIME LENDING (55%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (54%)

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (56%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (56%); LORD & TAYLOR LLC (56%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (54%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (56%); LLY (NYSE) (56%); LEL (LSE) (56%); GSK (NYSE) (56%); GSK (LSE) (56%); BIOC (EGX) (56%); GLE (PAR) (54%); GLE (BIT) (54%); BX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%); DANIEL BOUTON (50%); BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



816 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Santana's Rocky Finish Raises a Few Concerns

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL; Tyler Kepner contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Mets began contract negotiations Wednesday with the agent for the star left-hander Johan Santana, and very soon they expect to shift their focus from one astronomical figure (his salary) to another (his strikeout totals, victories, innings pitched -- take your pick). 
 But because this extension, which must be completed by 5 p.m. Friday, will have cost them four prospects and roughly the gross national product of Turks and Caicos, the Mets will also pay attention to a less flattering set of numbers. 
 Santana finished last season poorly, going 2-4 with a 5.11 earned run average in his final seven starts, raising possible concerns about whether he was pitching while not completely healthy. Those questions will be answered whenever Santana takes his physical examination, which he must pass for the deal to be complete, but theories abound. Did something happen after his outstanding performance Aug. 19, when he struck out 17 Texas Rangers in eight shutout innings, to begin the decline? 
 Or was it because his team, the Minnesota Twins, was dropping further and further out of contention, and he could not re-create the pennant-race atmosphere? Whatever the reason, until he goes out and proves that he is the Santana of old -- the one who won two Cy Young awards -- the slightest bit of uncertainty surrounds him. 
 An American League Central talent evaluator who often watched him pitch said Santana appeared healthy and called speculation surrounding his uncharacteristically modest finish to the season ''overanalyzed and overblown.'' The evaluator, who was granted anonymity because he was not authorized by his team to speak publicly, noted that he still liked Santana's strikeout-to-innings-pitched ratio (better than one to one) and that Santana walked only 13 batters during that time, or fewer than two per start. 
 ''He threw the ball over the plate and didn't make pitches,'' the evaluator said. ''They were out of the race; maybe he was just trying to throw it over. He didn't walk many guys and he got beat with some early-count fastballs. If they'd been in the race at all, maybe he'd have been a little more selective. But he was healthy. He was still throwing hard, still pitching deep into games.''
 Last season, Santana, who finished with a 15-13 record and a 3.33 E.R.A., was pestered by a recurrence of an ailment he battled in 2005. He had a cracked nail on his left middle finger, which hurt when he threw his slider. Santana never relied on that pitch; he tends to establish his fastball early in the count and early in the game, too, then mixes in his devastating changeup in the second or third inning while throwing an occasional slider. According to a report in The Minneapolis Star-Tribune, 108 of the 112 pitches he threw against the Rangers on Aug. 19 were fastballs or changeups. The others were sliders. 
 But even for a pitcher as talented as Santana, not having a third pitch can hamper his effectiveness and allow hitters to look only for a changeup, which he throws in any count, or a fastball. 
 The velocity on his fastball dropped a bit, too, hitting 94 miles an hour Aug. 19, according to The Star-Tribune, but afterward hovering mostly in the 91-92-m.p.h. range. The difference in speed made him less effective at locating his fastball inside against right-handed hitters, particularly toward the beginning of a game when he tended to throw it most of the time. 
 Santana gave up 23 first-inning runs last season, with 13 coming during his final seven starts, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The talent evaluator mentioned Santana's Sept. 15 start, when he gave up four first-inning runs against Detroit but did not allow a run over the next seven, while explaining that any average stretch is magnified because of the success Santana has had.
 ''He's spoiled everyone so much that when he loses, 4-3, it's like, what's wrong?'' the evaluator said. ''He's fine.''
 Efforts to reach Santana's agent, Peter Greenberg, on his cellphone Wednesday were unsuccessful, and Mets General Manager Omar Minaya did not immediately return a message left on his cellphone. 
 INSIDE PITCH
 The Mets added another right-handed reliever to their bullpen mix Wednesday by claiming Ruddy Lugo off waivers from the Oakland Athletics. Lugo, 27, who played high school baseball in Brooklyn, went 6-0 with a 5.40 E.R.A. in 38 games with Tampa Bay and Oakland. He is the younger brother of Boston Red Sox shortstop Julio Lugo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Johan Santana (57) went 2-4 with a 5.11 earned run average in his final seven starts for the Twins last season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC MILLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: 2007 Not His Best: Johan Santana is a two-time Cy Young award winner, but last season he was only two games over .500. Santana was 12-9 in mid-August, then had a dominant game against Texas, but was only 2-4 the rest of the season. Chart details Santana's statistics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (82%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (87%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



817 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: In a Switch, This Year's Super Bowl Ads Will Be Gentle and Sweet

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
NO matter how rough the action gets on the field on Sunday, when the New England Patriots meet the New York Giants in Super Bowl XLII, the advertisers will be playing nice.
 Most commercials that Fox Broadcasting will run during the game -- for which sponsors are paying record prices or close to it -- will be taking a milder, sweeter approach. There will be cute animals, at least one talking baby, an appeal to help fight AIDS, a talent contest, light-hearted parodies and enough celebrities to fill several seasons of ''Dancing With the Stars.''
 ''So many advertisers are promising to show their soft, friendly side,'' said Jim Nail, chief strategy and marketing officer at Cymfony, a research company that is part of the TNS Media Intelligence unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres. ''Maybe it's because people are getting their fill of blood and guts in political advertising.''
 The tone of the 40 or so Super Bowl spots, along with related campaigns online and in stores, will be in marked contrast to the commercials shown during the Super Bowl last year. Many of those drew complaints for slapstick, cartoonish violence that was deemed crass or even callous. 
 The misbehavior in the spots for Super Bowl XLI included a bank robbery, a monster run amok, a man throwing a rock at another man's head, fights among office workers, people slapping each other across the face and men tearing out patches of chest hair.
 Some of that bad behavior was out of this world -- literally. In a commercial for FedEx, set on the moon, an astronaut was obliterated by a meteor.
 By contrast, there will be ''no dying this year,'' David Lubars, the creative leader at the FedEx agency, said about the spot the company plans for Sunday.
 ''We have several commercials that are all fun and nice,'' said Mr. Lubars, chairman and chief creative officer at BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.
 The commercials include, in addition to FedEx, spots for PepsiCo beverages like Amp Energy and Diet Pepsi Max as well as a commercial featuring the singer Justin Timberlake ''having a lot of fun with himself and his reputation,'' Mr. Lubars said, on behalf of Pepsi Stuff, a music promotion sponsored by Pepsi-Cola and Amazon.com. 
 ''I don't know that it's a conscious decision,'' Mr. Lubars said, referring to the shift to sunnier ads from darker ones. ''Maybe people got tired of those jokes, or they ran their course.''
 ''Or maybe it's where the zeitgeist is, particularly with tough financial times now,'' he added. ''Maybe people want something lighter and less aggressive.''
 That theory was echoed by David Ovens, chief marketing officer at Taco Bell, a division of Yum Brands that plans to run a commercial in which consumers offer a humorous ''Hola!'' to a new menu item, Fiesta Platters.
 ''Some of the advertising last year was a bit aggro,'' Mr. Ovens said, using British slang for aggressive. The goal of Taco Bell and its Interpublic Group agency, Draft FCB, in developing the Fiesta Platters spot was to create something ''engaging, but not in your face.''
 ''The in-your-face slapstick stuff is funny, but then you forget about it,'' Mr. Ovens said. ''Funny with a wink, with a twist, people will talk about it.''
 Talk value -- or ''Monday morning chatterbacking,'' to borrow a phrase from Pete Blackshaw, executive vice president at Nielsen Online Strategic Services -- is more important than ever.
 That is because almost every Super Bowl advertiser wants its commercial to be amusing or intriguing enough to encourage viewers to watch it again after the game, on Web sites like AOL, MySpace, Yahoo and YouTube. They also hope viewers will forward video clips of the spot to friends, search for terms like ''Super Bowl commercials'' on sites like Google and visit special online microsites. 
 The Pepsi/Amazon promotion will have such a site at pepsistuff.com; another, truthinengineering.com, will pitch the Audi R8 sold by the Audi division of Volkswagen of America (which is inspiring a parody of ''The Godfather'' in a commercial created by Venables Bell & Partners).
 ''No one just buys a spot anymore; it's about extending beyond,'' said Penry Price, vice president for North American advertising sales at Google.
 For instance, not only do consumers start to search for Super Bowl spots on YouTube before the game, Mr. Price said, but there is also significant viewing afterward. Last year, the site had considerable commercial-viewing traffic for 38 days after Super Bowl XLI, he said, from more than 28 million computer users.
 This year, Google is offering Super Bowl advertisers an Ad Blitz package that includes uploading the video clips to YouTube and to Web sites that belong to the Google Content Network, which has hundreds of thousands of sites. For sponsors like Cars.com, Google is placing branded, interactive gadgets containing their spots on certain sites, so visitors can watch a commercial without leaving the site.
 Among the other advertisers putting on a happy face for Super Bowl XLII are Anheuser-Busch, with a commercial for Budweiser beer about a Dalmatian helping a Clydesdale achieve a dream, and Bridgestone Firestone North America, with spots featuring Alice Cooper, Richard Simmons, a deer and a squirrel. 
 Dell has a commercial promoting new (Product) Red PCs and printers to raise money for AIDS treatment in Africa, and E*Trade Financial has two spots featuring a baby talking on a Webcam about stocks and savings. Carmen Electra stars in a Hershey spot for Ice Breakers gum, and a Unilever commercial for the Sunsilk hair care features Madonna, Marilyn Monroe and Shakira. 
 With so many upbeat, cheerful spots in the same game, there is a risk that none will break through the clutter.
 ''Talking babies have been done before,'' acknowledged Tor Myhren, chief creative officer at the E*Trade agency, Grey New York, part of the Grey Global unit of the WPP Group. ''For the Super Bowl, you need to entertain to a certain level and appeal to the greatest number of people.''
 Grey and E*Trade are confident that viewers will perceive the commercials to be in ''a very, very different voice'' from other spots, Mr. Myhren said. Asked how sure he is, he laughed and replied: ''I hope so. Tell me after the game, because we all know it will be judged.''
 Fox, part of the News Corporation, is charging an estimated average of $2.7 million for each 30 seconds of commercial time during the game. The final 30-second slot was sold this week to an advertiser, whom Fox did not identify, that decided to buy 60 seconds rather than 30.
 The trade publication Mediaweek is estimating that Fox will take in $170 million from spots in the game -- and $225 million if ads in shows before and after are also counted.
 Demand for commercials in the game was stronger than usual, partly because of a growing desire among advertisers to sponsor sports coverage that is ''TiVo proof'' -- that is, more likely to be watched live, commercials and all, than played back later when spots are often skipped.
 The Super Bowl was also appealing to advertisers worried that the writers' strike had reduced the supply of high-quality programs watched by large audiences. The Super Bowl is typically the most-watched sponsored show each year.
 Some analysts are predicting that Super Bowl XLII may break a record of 94.1 million viewers, set in 1996, because of the possibility that the Patriots will finish the N.F.L. season undefeated. 
 Oh, no, Madison Avenue frets. What if the game proves more interesting than the commercials?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: E*Trade Financial has two Super Bowl commercials that will feature a baby talking on a Webcam about stocks and savings. CHART: THE COST: $90,000 A SECOND: Fox Broadcasting is charging an estimated average of $2.7 million for each 30 seconds of commercial time during Super Bowl XLII on Sunday. The following is a list of sponsors that have been identified as having bought time in the game nationally, and the quarter in which the spot is scheduled to run. The lineup is, as always, subject to change as the game is played. (Sources: Company reports, Advertising Age, Adweek, MediaPost, USA Today) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); ROBBERY (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); AIDS & HIV (57%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (56%); PEPSICO INC (52%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (52%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (83%); PEP (NYSE) (52%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NORTHEAST USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



818 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Strong Holiday Season Lifts Amazon's Revenue

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
Amazon.com, the leading online retailer, had a lot of good news in its financial report Wednesday, but it was overshadowed by just a small bit of bad news. 
 The good news was a strong holiday shopping season that was more robust than in years past as hearty demand for books, electronics and consumer goods pushed revenue up 42 percent in its fourth quarter and more than doubled profits. And despite a slowing national economy, Amazon said it expected strong sales growth this year. 
 The bad news was lower profit margins in the fourth quarter along with a disappointing outlook for those margins. 
 Shares of Amazon dropped more than 11 percent with the announcement that came after the markets closed. Shares lost as much as $8.96 in after-hours trading. Before the report, shares of Amazon rose 26 cents, to $74.21 as investors anticipated what is typically the company's strongest quarter. 
 ''They grew 42 percent in an environment in which retail sales over all grew about 4 percent,'' said Scott Devitt, managing director at Stifel Nicolaus. ''Amazon is one of the best-positioned companies on the Internet.''
 But Amazon's gross margin fell to 20.6 percent during the quarter, from 21.3 percent, as the company continued to invest in new technology and in its costly free shipping program, Amazon Prime. 
 Company executives tried to reassure Wall Street analysts in a conference call after the announcement. ''The growth we're seeing is broad based,'' said Jeff Bezos, the chief executive. 
 Tom Szkutak, the chief financial officer, said: ''What we're seeing right now reflects all the work we've done in terms of our customers. Our business is fine.'' 
 The company, based in Seattle, said fourth-quarter net income rose to $207 million, or 48 cents a share, from $98 million, or 23 cents a share, in the fourth quarter last year. Sales climbed to $5.67 billion, from $3.99 billion.
 Analysts had forecast earnings of 48 cents a share on revenue of $5.37 billion for the quarter, according to Thomson Financial.
 Sales of books and other media grew 33 percent, to $3.33 billion for the quarter, accounting for 59 percent of Amazon's total revenue.
 The growth of Amazon's international sales outpaced sales in the United States during the fourth quarter. Sales in the United States and Canada increased 40 percent, to $3.08 billion, while international sales climbed 46 percent, to $2.59 billion.
 While fears of a slowdown in consumer spending have been causing jitters on Wall Street, Amazon issued a confident sales forecast that beat analysts' estimates. Amazon forecast sales in the current quarter of $3.95 billion to $4.15 billion, an increase of 31 percent to 38 percent from the first quarter of 2007 and better than the $3.92 billion expected by analysts.
 The company said operating income was expected to grow as much as 38 percent in the quarter. Sales for the entire year are forecast to grow 26 percent to 33 percent over 2007, the company said.
 Mark S. Mahaney, an analyst with Citigroup Global Markets, wrote in a research note after the results that Amazon's fundamentals improved ''unambiguously'' during the quarter, and that the company was ''clearly taking market share, demonstrating product innovation, and benefiting from significant international exposure.'' He added, however, ''What's cloudy is the margin expansion.''
 Amazon has been investing heavily in technology needed to expand new businesses in the United States and Europe in cloud computing, which stores and processes data for customers. A number of companies, including Microsoft and Google, are racing to develop similar businesses that shift data and applications from personal computers to remote servers. 
 Amazon executives said Wednesday that more than 330,000 information technology developers had signed up for its new Amazon Web Services, part of the new storage and computing business service, an increase of more than 30,000 from the third quarter.
 Last fall, Amazon introduced a $399 electronic book called the Kindle and an online store where customers can download e-books. Mr. Bezos did not reveal sales figures for the device, but he said the company was seeing strong demand for the Kindle. ''Demand is outpacing our expectation, which is something we're very grateful for,'' he said. The company has to speed its manufacturing to meet that demand, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BOOKSTORES (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BOOK SALES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



819 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Office Tower to Rise in Harlem for Baseball's TV Network

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Richard Sandomir contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Major League Baseball plans to build a home on 125th Street, Harlem's premier boulevard, for its cable network, which is scheduled to make its debut early next year with some 50 million subscribers, real estate and baseball executives said on Wednesday.
 The planned building, to be developed by Vornado Realty Trust, would rise 21 stories in an interlocking set of luminescent glass cubes at 125th Street and Park Avenue and would be the first prime office tower to be built in Harlem in more than three decades. 
 Vornado is also negotiating with Inner City Broadcasting, the second-largest radio broadcasting company aimed at black listeners, to move to the planned tower from its Midtown offices, according to real estate executives and local officials.
 The Vornado project is an expression of how sky-high rents in Midtown Manhattan have contributed to Harlem's renaissance, pushing residential developers in particular to build in the once economically struggling community. The Vornado project, to be called Harlem Park, would be the first major office tower in the area since the construction of the State Office Building, also on 125th Street, in the early 1970s.
 But Vornado still has hurdles to cross, and if the project advances, it would not be the first to hold a groundbreaking at the site. Three years ago, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg held a press conference there in anticipation of a $236 million hotel and retail project that never materialized. 
 Vornado is seeking an exception to proposed rezoning that would impose height restrictions on buildings along 125th Street before it starts construction in the spring, and Major League Baseball is negotiating with the city for an incentive package. Some elected officials are also seeking assurances that the project will provide jobs for local residents and will not displace small businesses in the area.
 ''We want to know about jobs and we want to protect indigenous businesses,'' said city Councilwoman Inez E. Dickens, whose district includes the site, now a vacant lot.
 Still, city officials are optimistic that a national developer like Vornado and a major tenant like Major League Baseball will propel the project forward.
 ''Harlem Park will be the area's first Class-A office tower in decades and will attract major tenants, showcasing the economic growth under way in Harlem,'' said Robert C. Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development. ''We're still negotiating with Vornado and Major League Baseball, and if we are able to get it done, it will be a home run for the entire area.''
 Real estate executives said that Major League Baseball was completing negotiations to lease about one-fifth of the planned 630,000-square-foot building. That would include the second and third floors for broadcast studios and editing, as well as the top two floors of the tower for the network's executive and sales offices.
 The area around Park Avenue is still frayed and has not seen as much development as other stretches of 125th Street. But Harlem has changed dramatically.
 The average price for new apartments in Harlem has hit $895,000. The historic Apollo Theater on 125th Street is in the midst of a $96 million restoration and expansion. Two hotels are under development nearby, and national retailers like Old Navy, Starbucks and Sony Theaters have moved onto the boulevard. Columbia University has plans for a new $7 billion campus on 17 acres to the west.
 Vornado took over the site at Park Avenue last year, after the hotel project died. The company said then that it viewed the spot as ideal for a commercial tower because it sits close to a subway stop, a Metro-North train stop and what will be the northern terminus of the Second Avenue subway. It has nearby highway access to the airports and has nostalgic appeal because it is also less than two miles south of 155th Street and the former site of the Polo Grounds, where the New York Giants played, and Yankee Stadium, in the Bronx.
 Vornado hired Swanke Hayden Connell Architects. But it still needed a blue-chip anchor tenant for the project in order to begin construction. And Major League Baseball, which wanted to enter the lucrative world of cable television, needed space.
 The league's new network, like the channels already operated by the National Basketball Association, the National Football League and the National Hockey League, will offer a mix of live games, studio-based shows and archival, fantasy and reality programming. League-owned networks are vehicles to appeal to fans who want the type of concentrated fix on a single sport that they cannot get from ESPN or the local channels that carry teams' games.
 Unlike the N.F.L., baseball chose not to wage a protracted fight against cable operators to extend its subscriber rolls; it ensured major distribution by giving Comcast, Time Warner and Cox shares in the network that total 16.67 percent, the same stake that had already been provided to DirecTV for being the first to agree to carry the channel. Because of that deal, the baseball network is expected to be one of the most successful start-ups in television history.
 After searching for space in Manhattan, Queens and New Jersey, the league's broker, CB Richard Ellis, brought it to the Vornado project on 125th Street, where proposed rents are half those of similar buildings in Midtown. Tenants could also get tax breaks. Since Vornado does not expect to complete the tower until 2010, Major League Baseball has found temporary space in Secaucus, N.J.
 The city is set to rezone 125th Street and restrict building heights in such a way that the tower would be about 40 feet too tall. The company is hoping for an exemption. 
 But local officials are also concerned that the current wave of gentrification is displacing not only longtime residents, but also small businesses on 125th Street that had stuck it out through the bad times in Harlem.
 Major League Baseball's decision ''is an exciting way that they can deepen their relationship with the African and Hispanic communities,'' said Robert J. Rodriguez, chairman of Community Board 11. ''We're interested in seeing how that develops. As a community, we recognize how an office development could add vibrancy to the surrounding community. But we remain concerned about how this development proceeds and about jobs for local residents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A proposed building at 125th Street and Park Avenue.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SWANKE HAYDEN CONNELL)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



820 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The Newly Uptight

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
STEPHANIE LaCAVA has glimpsed fashion's future, and she likes what she sees. ''I've really been into this kind of sculptured feminine silhouette,'' said Ms. LaCava, 24, a features associate at Vogue. To judge by the outfit she wore at the Winter Antiques Show in Manhattan last week -- a sedate cream-colored sheath that Letitia Baldrige would have admired -- Ms. LaCava has embraced the fashions of the Kennedy years without irony. 
 ''I like the idea of good tailoring and clothes that are not so demonstrative,'' she said. ''We're getting beyond the idea of 'look at me, look at me.' Fashion today is more about calmness than flash.'' 
 That assertion puts her in fine company. Some of Seventh Avenue's most influential tastemakers are invoking in their latest collections the proprieties, the seamless appearances and the tony aspirations of midcentury Middle America. They are, in short, going bourgeois to the core. 
 In collections for fall that American designers plan to present starting on Friday, when another Fashion Week begins in New York, many will jettison the baby-doll dresses, the thigh-high skirts and the disco boots of the spirited Warhol years -- touchstones of recent seasons -- in favor of a meticulously tailored look that evokes the White House years of Jacqueline Kennedy. 
 ''That moment resonates with a lot of people and how they want to live,'' said Michael Kors, whose runway show on Wednesday will cater to the fantasy. ''There is not a minidress to be found, not a platform shoe in sight. And 'suit' is not going to be a dirty word.'' 
 His show and others' are expected to pay homage to a period, the late '50s and early '60s, that was, in retrospect, an interlude of prosperity and stability, one enriched by material comforts as substantial as a Steuben crystal cocktail shaker. 
 The past -- in fashion and elsewhere -- seems to call strongly to the present, as the country grows nervous about a possible recession and a diminished role on the world stage, even as Americans seek optimism through their presidential candidates. 
 ''We have certainly reached the time where people want to feel good again, to go back to Camelot and pre-Camelot days,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst with the NPD Group, a market research firm. ''Boomers especially are harkening back to a day before there were issues,'' among them global warming and teenagers overdosing on prescription drugs. 
 A harbinger of the current romance with midcentury America surfaced on television late last summer with the debut of ''Mad Men,'' the hit drama on AMC set in the streamlined steel and glass landscape of Madison Avenue in 1960. 
 Around the same time, hints of an infatuation with the era emerged on the runways. In a collection Miuccia Prada offered for ''pre-spring,'' which arrived in stores late last year, she trotted out bouffant skirts that cinched the waist and grazed the calves. Frida Giannini of Gucci has reissued the bandeau brassiere, that late-'50s staple, and Dolce & Gabbana is offering poppy-patterned circle skirts. 
 Marc Jacobs incorporated vintage-style bras and corsets into the designs he paraded in his New York show for spring. Last month Barneys New York displayed highly structured, satin-panel girdles and bras by Fifi Chachnil in its lingerie department.
 Some find the moment bracing. ''I'm thrilled that Grace Kelly is being talked about in fashion circles,'' said David Wolfe, the creative director of the Doneger Group, which forecasts fashion and retail trends. Mr. Wolfe noted that repeated references to Kelly and her fastidious contemporaries were ''absolutely without irony.''
 ''That's what makes them so exciting,'' he said. In reviving fashion archetypes like the little beige dress, the circle skirt and the princess-seamed coat, ''we're enabling people to recognize quality, and maybe to develop personal taste instead of hiring a stylist.''
 Recent photo shoots in fashion magazines have alternately tweaked and reinforced the corseted sensibility of the early '60s. The current Vogue highlights a pair of sheath dresses Slim Keith might have worn to lunch at La Caravelle. One, a brush-stroke floral print by Mr. Kors, is accessorized with black-and-white polka dot opera gloves. No less recherche is the accompanying copy, which extols the chic of a sheath and the ''smart suit.'' 
 The January British Vogue similarly featured circle skirts, peep-toe sandals, gingham bandeau tops and a shrug -- the term itself a throwback to the days of kitten-heel pumps and fin-tail sedans. 
 Just days ago, in a pre-fall collection for Louis Vuitton shown in Paris, Mr. Jacobs endorsed the type of matched wool skirt suit that used to be favored by young matrons in Darien, Conn., a look Babe Paley would have loved. Its immaculate tailoring and restraint may well be echoed in Mr. Jacobs's New York show on Feb. 8. 
 Unlike previous portrayals of the late '50s and early '60s as a time of unalloyed optimism, fashion's latest embrace of the past appears to reflect the nation's darkening mood. 
 ''It is the fashion equivalent of comfort food -- I think we need it,'' said Sam Shahid, an art director whose clients include Abercrombie & Fitch. ''Even in photography, everything we're seeing has a classicism about it,'' he added. ''Things are timeless right now, or you want them to be.''
 But some style watchers bemoan such conservative attitudes, arguing that they represent a creative retreat. ''Fashion is supposed to be about change,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''Fashion is risk. But as profits increasingly rule the roost, that risk has disappeared.'' 
 The paradox is not lost on him. Once a standard-bearer of the vanguard, ''fashion has become the most conservative of all industries,'' he said.
 Others predicted that designer runways teeming with period references and understated coats and suits for fall will fail to reverse sagging apparel sales.
 ''Any time the economy becomes tough and we see the stock market bounce around, the natural tendency is to pull back,'' said Robert Burke, a New York retail consultant. But for the fashion industry, such a strategy is counterproductive, he said. ''Too conservative an attitude is not the best approach,'' he said. ''People are not going to be interested in paying luxury prices for basics.''
 Designers seem intent on returning to old-fashioned civilities just the same. Some view the resurrection of a more formally controlled aesthetic as a rebuke to young Hollywood's disheveled style. Thakoon Panichgul, who will show a collection of body-skimming dresses with subtle '60s details, maintains that such looks are timely. ''There is an energy about being proper,'' he said. ''It's not about wholesomeness, it's about respectability, about having manners again.''
 That concept has an unexpected appeal to the young. ''So many young women relish the idea of looking turned out,'' Mr. Kors said. ''It is the opposite of trying so hard to look undone'' -- an attitude that, as he argued, women in their 20s are beginning to find stale.
 Revisiting the classics is also a way of dispelling the notion that fashion is disposable. Times are changing, Mr. Kors said. ''These days it is a badge of honor to wear an outfit more than once.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SENSE AND CIVILITY: Mrs. Loel Guinness and Mrs. Winston Guest, top, upheld the proprieties of the 1950s with rigorously simple sheaths. Fashions from the recent pre-fall shows reflect a trend to conservatism: left and second from right, Marc Jacobs for Louis Vuitton
others by Michael Kors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, BERT AND RICHARD MORGAN/GETTY IMAGES
INSET, LEFT AND SECOND FROM RIGHT, COURTESY OF LOUIS VUITTON (MARC JACOBS FOR LOUIS VUITTON)
OTHERS, FIRSTVIEW (MICHAEL KORS))(pg. G1)
A RETREAT: Period echoes have resurfaced in recent seasons, and will most likely make an impact in the fall. Poised for a comeback are skirt suits, bouffant skirts and sheaths like those in, clockwise from top left, ''Mad Men,'' Vogue, an advertisement from the 1950s and British Vogue.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLOCKWISE, FROM TOP LEFT, CRAIG BLANKENHORN/AMC
AMERICAN VOGUE, FEBRUARY 2008
ADVERTISING ARCHIVES
 BRITISH VOGUE, JANUARY 2008)(pg. G4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



821 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Like Giuliani, New York G.O.P. Rushes to McCain

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; David W. Chen, Alison Leigh Cowan and David Kocieniewski contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York's Republican establishment rushed to embrace Senator John McCain on Wednesday, with party leaders expressing confidence that his appeal to independents could help fend off a Democratic sweep that might cost them the State Senate in November. 
 Party leaders warmly praised their vanquished favorite son, Rudolph W. Giuliani, but coupled their compliments with scathing rebukes of the strategy that they blamed for his implosion.
 Following the lead of former Mayor Giuliani, who endorsed Mr. McCain on Wednesday, Giuliani supporters were also gravitating to Mr. McCain in New Jersey, if not as uniformly, and in Connecticut, which Mr. McCain carried in the 2000 primary against George W. Bush.
 In winner-take-all primaries on Feb. 5, Republicans in the three states will award 15 percent of the delegates needed for their party's presidential nomination. 
 Five candidates -- Mr. McCain, Mr. Giuliani, Mitt Romney, Mike Huckabee and Ron Paul -- remain on the Republican ballot in New York (Fred D. Thompson, too, in New Jersey, and in Connecticut, where Duncan Hunter and Alan Keyes will also be listed). 
 With 21 states holding Republican primaries the same day, none of the candidates said they had reserved television or radio advertising time in New York so far. Only Mr. McCain had scheduled a public appearance, a rally on the morning of Primary Day. 
 ''I think McCain wins New York,'' said Michael Long, the state Conservative Party chairman, who is still undecided on a candidate. ''I don't see any real opposition.''
 A WNBC/Marist Poll released last week gave Mr. McCain the lead in New York State among virtually every category of voters, except in New York City and its suburbs, where he was about even with Mr. Giuliani. The poll showed Mr. Romney tied for a distant second with Mr. Giuliani, behind Mr. McCain.
 ''The expectation might be that there would be a logical transfer to McCain,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. 
 Kieran Mahoney, a Republican strategist, agreed. ''McCain was ahead and is the second choice of Giuliani voters in New York,'' he said. 
 In New Jersey, former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, a McCain man, expressed confidence that most Giuliani supporters would follow the former mayor's lead and join the McCain campaign. ''They're friends, and they care about the same issues, have a lot of similarities in terms of temperament, so it seems like a natural transition,'' Mr. Kean said. 
 Former Representative Bob Franks, a co-chairman of Mr. Giuliani's New Jersey campaign, said he would support Mr. McCain, but added: ''My suspicion is that when it comes to the network of Giuliani supporters, their second-choice candidate would be split among a number of contestants still in the race. It would be hard to move en masse.'' Still, a dozen or so leading Giuliani supporters are expected to endorse Mr. McCain on Thursday.
 Mr. Romney's most prominent supporters in New Jersey -- State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a former state Republican Party chairman, and State Senator Leonard Lance, who is running for Congress this year -- have lined up an impressive array of conservatives, including legislators, former legislators, bloggers and businessmen, on their candidate's behalf.
 In Connecticut, Mr. McCain was endorsed earlier in the week by the Republican governor, M. Jodi Rell.
 State Senator John McKinney of Fairfield, who was co-chairman of the Giuliani state campaign, said: ''Tactically, many of us who support Giuliani and many Republicans look at Senator McCain as the Republican with the best chance of winning in '08.'' 
 Republican Majority for Choice, whose co-chairwoman is Jennifer Blei Stockman of Greenwich, has run advertisements in other states criticizing Mr. Romney for having ''sold his soul to the right wing, at least for the moment.'' She said that while her group would not endorse Mr. McCain, he was ''someone we can work with because he's rational and listens.''
 In New York, Mr. McCain was embraced on Wednesday by the party organization that had aggressively fought to keep him from even getting on the ballot in 2000, when he got 44 percent of the vote and 26 delegates. 
 After lavishing praise on Mr. Giuliani, his supporters, including Joseph N. Mondello, the Republican state chairman; Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader; and Guy V. Molinari, the co-chairman of the Giuliani campaign in New York, agilely lunged to the McCain camp.
 ''I love the guy,'' said Mr. Molinari, who was Mr. McCain's state campaign chairman eight years ago. ''I think he'll make a great president, and I'm happy that I'm in a position to support him.''
 Endorsements and organization can be particularly important because Republicans are unfamiliar with contested presidential primaries -- there have been only two in a generation, in 1976 and 2000. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Romney, Craig Stevens, said he was ''pleased with the strong grass-roots support he has'' in New York and added that ''Americans increasingly want a leader who understands the economy -- and Governor Romney stands alone in that regard.''
 Mr. Huckabee's state chairman, Myers Mermel, said he saw ''a great opening in terms of fund-raising,'' but said the candidate would not campaign there because ''it would not be an effective use of his time, given that New York is winner-take-all.''
 Edward F. Cox, the chairman of Mr. McCain's New York campaign, said that while most Republican leaders ''obviously supported the hometown candidate, they always appreciated McCain and his viability in New York as a general-election candidate.''
 Senator Bruno predicted that the combination of Mr. McCain as the nominee and Mr. Giuliani as his chief cheerleader in New York ''is going to hold us in good stead'' in maintaining control of the State Senate, New York's last Republican redoubt.
 Mr. Molinari added: ''The Democrats have a great opportunity, but the message has to be that folks will lose if one party controls everything.''
 Mr. Molinari, who, like Mr. Giuliani, vigorously supported Mr. McCain in the 2000 primary, caustically criticized the former mayor's campaign strategists. 
 ''They screwed up big-time when they bought into the crazy strategy of not competing in the early states,'' Mr. Molinari said. ''That was a very, very serious mistake.''
 He said he doubted that Mr. Giuliani would seek elective office again, adding: ''I think he'd make a great president, but he may not be the world's best politician.''
 Another prominent New York Republican, former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, switched to Mr. McCain last week after Mr. Thompson withdrew.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); RADIO ADVERTISING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); DUNCAN HUNTER (58%); RON PAUL (58%); MICHAEL J LONG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



822 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Poverty Challenge

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Mayor Bloomberg Tackles Poverty'' (editorial, Jan. 22):
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is showing both vision and courage in challenging the current official poverty level. Getting the story out about struggling families in New York City, and then, we hope, across America, is long overdue. 
 The current formulas mask the reality that a staggering 39 percent of all American children grow up in families with incomes at or below 200 percent of the official poverty level (or $40,000 for a family of four), which is about what it takes to provide basic necessities to children. 
 Economic hardship is the greatest drain on the next generation's productivity, and having an honest dialogue about the scope of the problem and the solutions within our grasp -- if only we invest our public and private dollars in a smart way -- cannot begin too soon.
 Jane Knitzer Nancy Cauthen New York, Jan. 22, 2008
 The writers are, respectively, director and deputy director of the National Center for Children in Poverty at Columbia University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



823 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GROUND LEVEL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Sprawling, Diverse State Poses Special Challenge for Candidates

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: REDLANDS, Calif. 

 BODY:
The most trenchant symbol of the California presidential primary can be found on an isolated stretch of Interstate 15, smack in the middle of the Mojave Desert. There, affixed to an old trailer, is possibly the largest candidate billboard in the entire state, and it is for the Republican fringe candidate, Ron Paul. 
 Voters here, engaged by the foreclosure problem and fearing a recession, are ready to lay eyes on candidates, or at least see their faces on television. The goal of the state Legislature in moving California's primaries to Tuesday was to end the endless practice of candidates bivouacking into Los Angeles and San Francisco for money or debates, skirting the cities that rest in the hills and valleys beyond. 
 ''They have no presence here,'' said Marty Steinbrugger, a material salesman here, as he shivered against the backdrop of the San Bernardino Mountains. ''I read about the campaign on the Internet.'' 
 Along the main street here, in the guitar store, the printing shop, in line at the bank, everyone had an idea about what is wrong with the health care system, knew someone who had lost a home to high interest rates, and had a notion about who the right person is to address the wobbling economy. 
 ''I feel more motivated than ever to vote,'' said Daniel Hodge, 22, a truck driver from Loma Linda, five miles west of here in what is majestically referred to as the Inland Empire. ''I feel like Obama is speaking directly to me.'' 
 Since the 1968 primaries -- won by Robert F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon -- California has been viewed by presidential aspirants as a microcosm of the country. From economic issues to trends in health care, immigration, urban infrastructure and education, the state has proved to be a great incubator for prescriptive policy and a test of the political winds. 
 This year, with two other large states on Tuesday ostensibly spoken for by hometown favorites -- Illinois for Senator Barack Obama and New York for Senator Hillary Rodham -- California looms even larger for the Democrats. 
 The presidential candidates know the state, flush with delegates, cannot be easily discarded. But the vastness of California, the high cost of advertising here -- a statewide television buy can run over $2 million for a week -- and the sheer impossibility of traversing its myriad Congressional districts in a day, even with the help of chartered aircraft, have forced the candidates to keep their distance from here. 
 For those who would be president, California is like an inaccessible love interest, stared at from across the country with both longing and frustration, its suitors aggrieved by their fumbling inability to connect. 
 The candidates cannot find Mr. Hodge in a pancake house, a la New Hampshire, and an evening at a house party in Loma Linda means precious time outside of nearly two dozen other states which are smaller, cheaper and closer to others voting Tuesday. It requires creativity. 
 On the Democratic side, Mr. Obama has cultivated some 700 microgroups in the state (how's it going, cat lovers for Obama?) and scores of weekend phone banks and neighborhood canvas volunteers. 
 His campaign recently held a series of small economic forums. At one of them in downtown Los Angeles, Damian Holguin listened intently.
 ''I decided to become a citizen because I want to be active in the election of this president,'' said Mr. Holguin, a waiter who is a registered Republican.
 Mrs. Clinton has focused on Hispanic voters both with personal appearances, and with things like a ''Bring Your Own Phone'' party in San Diego -- in which volunteers bring cellphones and make calls to potential supporters. Republicans have tried to focus all of their energies in getting local elected officials in friendly Congressional districts to do their heavy lifting, and limit their visits to areas where they can cram the most voters into a room. 
 ''It is much more cost-effective to communicate to 8,000 voters than 75,000,'' said Hector Barajas, a spokesman for the California Republican Party. 
 But unearthing the truth about the state's political contours is as complex and multifaceted as its physical geography. Just as presidential candidates are often as close to a snow-capped mountain as an incoming Pacific wave, they are almost always equidistant from a pious environmentalist on his way to lunch at the Ivy and a young mother who says Christian values are the most important thing a candidate can possess. 
 ''Some parts of San Francisco make California look bad because they are all about saving every spider or whatever,'' said Jim Hosp, a Republican who is 48, over a plate of eggs in Napa. ''But as far as California goes, we pretty much all get along.'' 
 This is the state where one lawmaker tried to legislate against spanking last year, while another group tried to eliminate domestic partners rights, and where Republicans often ''out-green'' Democrats, who in turn can be just as tax adverse as Republicans. 
 ''I think America thinks people in California just sit at the beach,'' said Jayne Bieber, who works as a studio executive in Los Angeles and supports Mrs. Clinton. ''But it is so diverse here. I am above middle class, but I am concerned about jobs, I am concerned about the value of the dollar, I am concerned about the value of my 401(k) and my entire financial future. I am a single parent, so it's schools and my nanny and everything else. I make a lot of money, but when I get my check I feel overtaxed.'' 
 Though it is hard to predict, campaigns in both parties have come to the conclusion that working-class voters may be a key to victory on Tuesday. 
 ''In this case it is a very similar constituency,'' said Don Sipple, a Republican strategist who worked on the election of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. ''You don't go to corporate chieftains here, you go to rank-and-file Republicans, and there are a ton of them who are hurting.'' 
 In Moreno Valley, here in the county just east of Los Angeles, home foreclosures are as common as sun-soaked afternoons.
 ''I think the Republicans need to talk about the middle class more,'' Trish Hildebrandt said. ''Because they are the majority of people who are voting here now.'' 
 In interviews with Democrats and Republicans and those who are unaffiliated with a party, the state of the economy -- specifically the rising costs of gas and food, and the high rate of home foreclosures -- trumped nearly every other issue. 
 ''The thing that so depresses me is that when I was turning 30 I had more money in the bank than now when I'm approaching 40,'' said Cary Dillow, a salesman in Redlands who like many of the Republicans interviewed was far less settled on his candidate than the Democrats were. 
 ''I make a really good living, and I'm still living paycheck to paycheck,'' he said over coffee at Starbucks. ''You can't overstate the effect of spending $80 to fill up your car. You add these coffees at $5 twice a day, and it all adds up.'' 
 Because of the way the Republican Party here counts delegates -- each Congressional district is worth three delegates to its winner no matter how many Republicans reside there -- the Republican candidates have chosen at times to bat their eyes at small, manageable spots on the map that in a general election would almost certainly spurn them. 
 Moderate Republicans have their best shot near the coast, while those who are more conservative can find succor deeper in the state, where Republicans have more in common with red-state denizens than their own party mates here. 
 Mitt Romney has been focused intensely on the 25th Congressional District, which stretches across Los Angeles and San Bernardino Counties, where Representative Howard P. McKeon, a Republican, oversees the show. 
 ''It's almost like running mini-Congressional campaigns,'' said Kevin Madden, a spokesman for the Romney campaign. ''You find a district where the local congressman supports you, and it is very advantageous.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 31 about the difficulties of campaigning in the sprawling and diverse state of California misidentified the winner of the Republican primary there in 1968. It was Ronald Reagan, who ran unopposed as the favorite son -- not Richard M. Nixon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Damian Holguin, who said he became a citizen to be active in the election, recently attended a Barack Obama event. ''I make a really good living, and I'm still living paycheck to paycheck,'' said Cary Dillow, a salesman from Redlands. Campaigns in both parties have come to the conclusion that working-class voters may be a key to victory on Tuesday. Areas around the Mojave Desert are among the parts of California rarely, if ever, reached by national politicians. A voter in Redlands said, ''They have no presence here.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map showing Arizona, New Mexico and California as diverse challenges for candidates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT & SUPPLY STORES (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); RON PAUL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MOJAVE DESERT (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



824 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: America's Riveting Democracy

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
 An Italian member of the European Parliament is not the first person you expect to meet in Charleston, South Carolina, but there was Monica Frassoni last week following the twists and turns of a remarkable U.S. election.
 When I inquired what brought her to Dixie, Frassoni, a Green, responded: ''We've learned that a good or bad U.S. president can make the difference between war and peace. A good or bad Italian prime minister makes no difference at all.''
 Italians are not the only people feeling they deserve a vote on Nov. 4. Nor is Frassoni isolated in her interest. German and French TV crews scurried about. A Brazilian journalist behind me was screaming into a microphone as Barack Obama gave his victory speech after last Saturday's primary. 
 There are several reasons for this passionate international focus on things American, which comes paradoxically just as the most fashionable global intellectual pursuit is the prediction of inevitable American decline.
 Why, it's fair to ask, should a fading imperium -- or so the conventional wisdom has it from Davos conclaves to Pew opinion surveys -- so rivet the world?
 One reason, of course, is that the convening of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist party or the selection of a European Commission president, big events in ascendant China and coalescing Europe, are hardly ready for prime time. A gaggle of guys in suits make soporific footage.
 There's nothing like bureaucracy to make democracy look thrilling. Beijing and Brussels won't hold primaries soon. Nor will Moscow, with its Putin-to-Putin hand-over already scripted. ''We the people'' is a phrase alien to these capitals.
 That's one reason the American doomsayers are wrong again, as they were in the 1980s when the Rockefeller-Center buying Japanese were the coming thing. But before I get to that, here's why the world is addicted to this campaign with nine months still to go.
 The first reason is the thirst for the end of the Bush era. His prosaic valedictory State of the Union speech this week reminded everyone of this man's tone-deaf incapacity to touch people. It's grotesque for him to pose now as a fiscal conservative, an environmentalist and a peacemaker. He's yesterday's story.
 The second is Obamania, now in overdrive with the Kennedy endorsement. Camelot is the world's imagined America, a place of gallantry and idealism. And here comes Barack Obama, with his beautiful wife Michelle, to summon all that America's beckoning shore once symbolized of rags-to-riches opportunity and unlikely reconciliation across history's wounds. Germany is agog; it's not alone.
 The third is the sheer drama of the contest, whose current focus is the battle between Obama and Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination, but whose rich array of candidates is worthy of central casting. 
 The fourth, as Frassoni noted, is that the Bush Administration has been a disquieting reminder of how much the occupant of the White House matters.
 Which brings us to the fashionable notion of eroding U.S. power. This school, in which wishful thinking often masquerades as analysis, is enjoying a heyday as military strains in Iraq and Afghanistan, a credit crunch, spiraling debt and the specter of recession form a picture of American overreach and decline.
 There will certainly be new military and financial constraints on the next president after the incompetence and profligacy of the Bush years. But those years have also shown how little of significance happens without American leadership. That's as true of Israel-Palestine as of the environment or Kosovo.
 As this election campaign is demonstrating, the United States remains the most vital, open, self-renewing and democratic society on earth. In December 2007, there were 1,059,793 naturalization applications pending: one million people are not clamoring to join a nation in eclipse.
 To imagine that a European Union plagued by self-doubt and existential uncertainty (where are Europe's borders?), or a China of treacherous internal contradictions, can become powers of influence equal to the United States within the next half-century is implausible. America must work closely with them, but inspiration and leadership are unlikely to come from them.
 Turbulent global markets following the lead of Wall Street have given the lie to the ''decoupling'' theory. Where the American economy goes, the world tends to follow. As for Pax Americana, it's the unsung success story that gives pessimistic pontificators the time and luxury to postulate its demise.
 At a piddling 232 years old, the United States is a mere teen in historical terms. Demography, Google and the political fever of these primaries all indicate its vigor. Obamania shows how great America's hold on the planetary imagination remains.
 Far from paradoxical, the global fascination with this election is in fact logical. For where America leads, with post-Bush dexterity and purpose, the world will still follow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); JOURNALISM (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); WRITERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (90%); BELGIUM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



825 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Is Out; Giuliani Quits and Backs McCain Narrowed Fields Hurtle Toward Big Voting Tests

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Julie Bosman contributed reporting from New Orleans, Michael Luo from Simi Valley, and Jeff Zeleny from Denver.

DATELINE: SIMI VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani, the combative former Republican mayor of New York City, and John Edwards, the Democrat who ran for the White House as an anti-poverty populist, both dropped out of the presidential race on Wednesday, leaving a narrowed field hurtling toward what amounts to a national primary next week.
 Mr. Giuliani, who led the Republican pack in national polls for a time last year only to see his campaign lose steam and then collapse in Florida's primary on Tuesday, flew here to endorse Senator John McCain at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, just steps from the sun-drenched grave site of the standard bearer of the Republican Party. 
 Mr. Giuliani, who built his candidacy on his handling of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, praised Mr. McCain as ''an American hero'' and ''the most qualified candidate to be the next commander in chief of the United States.'' 
 Later, Mr. McCain's aides said he would be endorsed Thursday by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, who, like Mr. Giuliani is a moderate Republican whose positions are sometimes at odds with his party.
 Hours before Mr. McCain used the symbolism of the Reagan library to help reassure wary conservatives as he faces off against Mitt Romney for the Republican nomination, Mr. Edwards chose another symbolic backdrop, the Ninth Ward of New Orleans, to announce that he was leaving the Democratic race to Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. 
 It was the place he began his candidacy in December 2006, when he spoke in front of a row of hurricane-damaged homes. He did not endorse either of his two Democratic rivals, but he said he had spoken to them by phone and asked them to continue drawing attention to the primary themes of his campaign.
 ''They have both pledged to me -- and more importantly, through me to America -- that they will make ending poverty central to their campaign for the presidency,'' Mr. Edwards said.
 The day's developments helped give focus to the contests in both parties. Although two other Republicans remain in the race -- Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas -- it is now primarily a showdown between Mr. McCain, whose victory in Florida established him as his party's front-runner, and Mr. Romney, who is trying to position himself as the more reliable conservative.
 Not long after Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani appeared together here, the Republican candidates held their last debate before Tuesday's vote. Mr. Romney immediately sought to portray Mr. McCain as out of step with his party. He pointed to immigration legislation Mr. McCain worked on with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and to the campaign finance restrictions he wrote with Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin, another Democrat.
 Mr. McCain, of Arizona, in turn said Mr. Romney had raised taxes by increasing fees when he was governor of Massachusetts. And Mr. McCain continued his efforts to undermine Mr. Romney's qualifications, saying the Oval Office in wartime is no place for on-the-job training.
 On the Democratic side, the race now becomes a head-to-head battle between Mrs. Clinton, who would be the first woman to be president of the United States, and Mr. Obama, who would be the first black president.
 In Denver before a crowd of more than 10,000 and with Caroline Kennedy at his side, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, delivered a sharply pointed but oblique critique of Mrs. Clinton, saying the nation should not ''build a bridge back to the 20th century.''
 ''It's time for new leadership that understands that the way to win a debate with John McCain is not by nominating someone who agreed with him on voting for the war in Iraq,'' Mr. Obama said, ''who agreed with him in voting to give George Bush the benefit of the doubt on Iran; who agrees with him in embracing the Bush-Cheney policy of not talking to leaders we don't like.''
 ''There are those who will tell us that our party should nominate someone who is more practiced in the art of pursuing power, that's it's not yet our turn or our time,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There was also a time when Caroline Kennedy's father was counseled by a former president to be patient and to step aside for someone with greater experience, but John F. Kennedy responded by saying: 'The world is changing. The old ways will not do.' ''
 After a period in which former President Bill Clinton went after Mr. Obama forcefully, he and Mrs. Clinton were silent about him on Wednesday. At an appearance in Atlanta, Mrs. Clinton, of New York, ran through a list of issues, saying, ''Let us think about the solutions we can bring about, to give our people hope, but more than hope, results.''
 The remaining candidates all face the complex challenge of campaigning across the country before the voting on Tuesday in more than 20 states, including California, New York and Illinois. 
 Mrs. Clinton will spend the next several days in California, and on Wednesday began running an advertisement emphasizing her ability to handle the weakening economy.
 Mr. Obama is running commercials in every state that is voting Tuesday except Illinois, focusing on messages about the environment in California, the war in Minnesota and electability in Missouri. Along the way, he is pressing his call for a tax rebate to stimulate spending.
 Before his withdrawal, Mr. Edwards had appeared more closely aligned with Mr. Obama than with Mrs. Clinton, whom he had cast as an agent of the status quo. But, facing what is shaping up to be a long battle for votes and delegates, both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton praised Mr. Edwards and his focus on poverty.
 ''John has spent a lifetime fighting to give voice to the voiceless and hope to the struggling,'' Mr. Obama said. ''At a time when our politics is too focused on who's up and who's down, he has consistently made us focus on who matters.'' 
 Similarly, Mrs. Clinton said the nation should thank Mr. Edwards for standing up ''for people who are otherwise voiceless or disempowered.''
 The endorsements of Gov. Charlie Crist and Senator Mel Martinez of Florida appeared to help Mr. McCain in that state, and Mr. McCain's campaign was optimistic that Mr. Schwarzenegger's backing, coming on the heels of Mr. Giuliani's endorsement, would help in the same way in California.
 After receiving Mr. Giuliani's endorsement, Mr. McCain said that ''like all Americans,'' he would never forget Mr. Giuliani's leadership on Sept. 11, 2001. At one point his eyes appeared to mist up as he spoke of people who had cheered Mr. Giuliani at an Arizona Diamondbacks game. 
 Then Mr. McCain abruptly called the news conference to a close when a reporter asked Mr. Giuliani, who had fleetingly mentioned the bitterness he felt with leaving the race, to explain where his campaign had gone wrong.
 McCain advisers said that Mr. Giuliani, who like Mr. McCain appeals to moderate and independent voters, had been taking support away from Mr. McCain and that Mr. Giuliani's withdrawal was of critical importance.
 ''There are many Rudy Giuliani voters -- which is not an insignificant number, by any stretch of the imagination -- who will now be drawn to John McCain,'' said Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain.
 But backing from Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Schwarzenegger is not likely to help Mr. McCain where he may need it most, among social conservatives who have been suspicious of his breaks with the party onissues like immigration and his uneasy relationship with evangelical leaders.
 Mr. McCain will spend the days before Tuesday's contests crisscrossing the country for appearances in major media markets in delegate-rich California, Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey and New York. He will also be forced to spend precious time in fund-raisers -- he has three scheduled in the next two days -- to help pay for expensive television advertising in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York.
 Mr. Romney's advisers said they will be focused on trying to rally conservatives.
 ''In a two-person race, I think as people say, do they want to vote for John McCain to be the nominee of the Republican Party or do they want to vote for me,'' Mr. Romney said Wednesday morning on Fox News, ''who does his best to bring together the Republican coalition that Ronald Reagan built? I think I stand a good chance in that contest.''
 The Romney campaign's emphasis will be on Western states, most notably California. It has not decided what to do about New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, delegate-rich states with pricey media markets where Mr. McCain has built substantial leads in recent polls. The campaign is holding out the possibility of spending money there to force Mr. McCain, who they believe will have a cash problem, to do so as well.
 ''We've gone through and sort of prioritized, doing a cost-benefit analysis in rank ordered states,'' said Carl Forti, Mr. Romney's political director. 
 On the Democratic side, Mrs. Clinton campaigned in Arkansas and Georgia, a day after winning the Democratic primary in Florida, where the Democratic National Committee had stripped away delegates because the contest was scheduled before Feb. 5.
 At an arena at the University of Denver, where former President Bill Clinton was to appear Wednesday evening on behalf of Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama asked Democrats to avoid choosing a nominee who would galvanize Republicans. He did not use Mrs. Clinton's name, but with Mr. Edwards out of the race, there was no doubt to whom he was referring.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Edwards on Wednesday with his wife, Elizabeth, and their son, Jack, in New Orleans, where he began his campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Rudolph W. Giuliani stepped out of the race on Wednesday and endorsed John McCain, calling him ''an American hero.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Rudolph W. Giuliani, left, Senator John McCain and his wife, Cindy, as Mr. Giuliani announced his McCain endorsement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A day after coming out ahead in the primary in Florida, which was stripped of delegates, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton campaigned at Kitchen Express in Little Rock, Ark., and in Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A packed gymnasium greeted Senator Barack Obama on Wednesday at the University of Denver. Mr. Obama praised John Edwards and vowed to continue his focus on poverty in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MAYORS (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LIBRARIES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); IMMIGRATION (50%); IMMIGRATION LAW (50%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICK PERRY (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RON PAUL (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



826 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Better Pay for Federal Judges

 BODY:
The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to vote today on a proposed pay raise for federal judges -- an issue of considerable importance to the quality and independence of the judiciary. 
 Sitting federal trial judges currently earn $165,200 a year -- the same as a member of Congress. That is not a trivial amount. But the case for a substantial increase is a strong one, much as the Supreme Court's chief justice, John Roberts, has urged in his last two annual reports, embracing a cause championed by his predecessor, William Rehnquist. To ensure a good deal for the public, the new pay package should include an overdue tightening of the gift rules to bar corporate-sponsored junkets.
 Although Congress has approved occasional cost-of-living increases, federal judges have not had a significant raise in nearly two decades. From 1969 to 2006, according to figures compiled by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, federal judicial pay declined by almost a quarter when adjusted for inflation. The national average for all wages rose by about 18 percent. 
 That, Chief Justice Roberts notes, ''has left federal trial judges -- the backbone of our system of justice -- earning about the same as (and in some cases less than) first-year lawyers at firms in major cities, where many of the judges are located.'' Federal judges' salaries also lag well behind many law school deans, senior law professors and even senior government lawyers.
 In December, the House Judiciary Committee approved, by an overwhelming 28-5 vote, a bill that would raise the pay of federal trial judges to $218,000 a year, with comparable raises for other judges. That may seem too much, especially given the current economic downturn, and a smaller increase might be easier politically. But judges have been losing ground on pay for so many years that, in fairness, the large increase is more a salary restoration than a raise. 
 In exchange for the increase, Americans are entitled to an improvement in ethical standards. Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, is right to propose strict curbs on the expense-paid junkets financed by private interests with business before the courts. Justified as educational ''seminars,'' these freebies have soiled the court system's reputation. Sadly, the judiciary has shown itself incapable of effective self-policing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); ETHICS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); COST OF LIVING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (73%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



827 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: The New Race: Four Candidates, 24 States and One Hectic Week

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
For most of the year, the race for president has been a muddle for both parties: An amorphous cast of candidates seeking to distinguish themselves and win attention from voters, donors and the news media. 
 That phase of the campaign ended decisively on Wednesday. With Rudolph W. Giuliani and John Edwards withdrawing from the race, the two parties now have what is, in effect, clean two-way battles for the nomination as they roar into this week leading until Tuesday, when more than 20 states will vote. And rarely has either party witnessed a contest between two such formidable and evenly matched candidates.
 In Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrats have two candidates of unusual talent and political dexterity. Their political bases are equally formidable, as is their ability to raise money. They are both celebrity candidates and historical figures -- Mr. Obama, of Illinois, is seeking to become the first black president, and Mrs. Clinton, of New York, the first woman -- and they have shown a definite capacity to draw a crowd.
 The Final Two in a Multifront Battle <check>
 In Senator John McCain of Arizona and Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, Republicans have two candidates who are scrappy and nimble campaigners. Both have also had the onus of reading their own premature political obituaries this year. But they have yet to inspire the enthusiasm among Republicans that Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have inspired among Democrats. 
 Whatever their political appeals, they have survived to this week in part because Republican voters found so many other players in the field so flawed.
 A Face-Off, Not Necessarily Televised <check>
 With the terrain starkly different from the preceding battles, the four are acting accordingly. Mrs. Clinton will begin broadcasting a provocative new advertisement on Friday about the economy, called ''Freefall,'' that shows a man flailing in a 19-second free-fall drop through the atmosphere, before his parachute engages. Mr. Romney, as he moves into California, is planning to address the housing crisis. 
 The four are now moving into the unknown territory of what is amounting to a weeklong national primary that will test their political dexterity -- and their endurance -- as nothing has in this campaign.

GRAPHIC: CHART: LOOKING AHEAD: More than 20 states will hold presidential primaries and caucuses next Tuesday. Democrats allot delegates proportionally whereas most of the Republican contests use a winner-take-all method: in both cases, district delegates are apportioned by results of each Congressional district and statewide delegates by the state vote. All Republican delegates from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut go to the statewide winner. The most recent polls available in some states with the largest number of delegates: 0.000000 38.333333 76.6666670.101050.00000000308.333333 76.666667115.000000 McCAIN ROMNEY HUCKABEE ALL OTHER (Sources: Republican National Committee
Democratic National Committee
TNS Media Intelligence/CMAG (ad data)
CNN/Politico/Los Angeles Times
Gallup/USA Today
Research 2000
Quinnipiac University
Mason-Dixon
Research 2000
Crawford, Johnson & Northcott
Behavior Research Center
University of South Alabama
 University of Connecticut) Chart showing the states that will hold presidential primaries and caucuses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



828 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks Surplus Via Medicare Cuts

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In his new budget, to be unveiled Monday, President Bush will call for large cuts in the growth of Medicare, far exceeding what he proposed last year, and he will again seek major savings in Medicaid, according to administration officials and budget documents.
 Over all, the 2009 budget is likely to be the first $3 trillion spending request by a president. 
 Health care savings are a crucial part of Mr. Bush's plan to put the nation on track to achieve a budget surplus by 2012. But before then, the officials said Wednesday, the White House anticipates higher deficits in 2008 and 2009, reflecting the current weakness of the economy and the cost of a stimulus package.
 The president's budget will not seek money for another full year of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Pentagon officials said the administration would request $70 billion for the fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1. That would be enough to continue combat operations for several months, until the next president takes office.
 Mr. Bush has repeatedly said that the costs of Medicare and Medicaid, which dwarf spending for lawmakers' pet projects, are unsustainable. The two health programs account for nearly one-fourth of all federal spending, and their combined cost -- $627 billion last year -- is expected to double in a decade.
 Budget documents show that Mr. Bush will propose legislative changes in Medicare to save $6 billion in the next year and $91 billion from 2009 to 2013. In his last budget, by contrast, his legislative proposals would have saved $4 billion in the first year and $65.6 billion over five years. 
 The president's budget also takes aim at Medicaid, the insurance program for low-income people. He would pare $1.2 billion from it next year and nearly $14 billion over five years. 
 Those figures do not include tens of billions of dollars that Mr. Bush wants to save through new regulations. Such rules are not subject to approval by Congress, but could be revised by a future administration. 
 Congressional Democrats often pronounce Mr. Bush's budget dead on arrival, and they have no reason to make unpopular cuts in this election year. 
 But lawmakers say they feel obliged to pass a Medicare bill in the first half of this year, to spare doctors from a 10 percent cut in Medicare fees that would otherwise take effect on July 1. Lawmakers say that bill could easily become a vehicle for other changes in Medicare and Medicaid.
 Most of the Medicare savings in the budget would be achieved by reducing the annual update in federal payments to hospitals, nursing homes, hospices, ambulances and home care agencies. 
 The budget would not touch payments to insurance companies for private Medicare Advantage plans, even though many Democrats and independent experts say those plans are overpaid.
 In the next five years, the largest amount of Medicare savings, by far, would come from hospitals: $15 billion from an across-the-board reduction in the annual updates for inpatient care; $25 billion from special payments to hospitals serving large numbers of poor people; and $20 billion from capital payments for the construction of hospital buildings and the purchase of equipment.
 In addition, the president's budget would reduce special Medicare payments to teaching hospitals, including many in the New York area, by $23 billion over the next five years.
 To justify prior budget proposals, the White House has often cited the work of an independent federal panel, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission. The panel voted this month to recommend that Medicare payments to hospitals be increased about 3 percent in 2009, to reflect the expected increase in the cost of goods and services hospitals use. Under the president's budget, Medicare payments would not keep pace with those costs in 2009 or any subsequent year.
 The advisory panel found that the special Medicare payments to teaching hospitals were excessive, as the White House contends. But it recommended a much more modest cutback than Mr. Bush will propose.
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the president's proposals showed ''great insensitivity to teaching hospitals'' across the country. The proposals ''would undermine our ability to train young doctors at a time when the nation is facing a shortage of doctors,'' Mr. Raske said.
 Under the president's budget, Medicare payment rates for nursing homes would be frozen in 2009, and payment rates for home health agencies would be frozen at current levels through 2013.
 William A. Dombi, vice president of the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, a trade group, said the proposal could affect many of the three million Medicare beneficiaries who receive home health services each year.
 ''Under the proposal,'' Mr. Dombi said, ''75 percent to 80 percent of home health agencies would be doomed. They would not be able to meet payroll. They would not be able to operate.''
 Within 15 days of sending his budget to Congress, Mr. Bush is supposed to submit legislation to strengthen the financial condition of Medicare and to reduce its reliance on general revenues, which include income taxes. The 2003 Medicare law established special procedures to ensure that Congress would consider such legislation. 
 House Democrats want to eliminate this requirement, saying it is a Republican device to undermine Medicare's status as an entitlement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush spoke on the economy in Torrance, Calif., on Wednesday. He is set to unveil his budget on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); HOSPICE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); HOSPITALS (71%); INSURANCE (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



829 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: End Tax Deal For Garden, Council Urges

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
Madison Square Garden and its chairman, James L. Dolan, may have run out of friends at City Hall. The City Council voted 40 to 3 on Wednesday in favor of ending the arena's unusual tax deal with the city, which for 25 years has exempted the Garden from property taxes.
 The deal has cost the city nearly $300 million since 1982, and several council members said it should have been abolished years ago. 
 The resolution has the backing of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has said he does not favor public subsidies for private corporations, but who has also made known his lingering resentment at Mr. Dolan for his role in helping to sink his administration's proposal for a West Side stadium deal in 2005. 
 ''They should not get a free ride,'' the mayor said last Friday on his weekly radio program. ''They should pay taxes just like everyone else.''
 Ultimately, though, the measure is meaningless without the approval of Albany, where Mr. Dolan has had a strong ally in the past in Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. It was Mr. Silver who helped Mr. Dolan and Cablevision, which owns the Garden, defeat Mr. Bloomberg's stadium plans. Cablevision has hired a high-powered team of lobbyists, including Mr. Silver's former chief of staff, Patricia Lynch, to preserve the exemption. 
 Mr. Silver has not publicly expressed a position on the matter, and he declined to do so on Wednesday. But in a clear signal of where his sympathies may lie, his spokesman, Dan Weiller, said that as on any local issue, ''the speaker would generally first turn to the local member to see where they are on that issue.'' 
 That member, Richard N. Gottfried, a close ally of the speaker, made no attempt Wednesday to disguise his support for the Garden. ''If New York City wants to reconsider its policy of giving tax exemptions to large corporations, I would welcome that,'' said Mr. Gottfried, a Democrat. ''But it makes no sense to pick and choose one corporation at a time.'' 
 The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, also signaled his opposition. ''Our focus is on cutting back taxes and not adding additional burdens on businesses, whether it be the Garden or any other entity that is vital to the city or the state,'' Mr. Bruno's spokesman, John McCardle, said. 
 Council members, led by Helen Sears and Lewis A. Fidler, had pushed identical resolutions in 2003 and 2005. But without the support of the Council's speaker at the time, Gifford Miller, neither came to a vote. 
 This time, the Council's speaker, Christine C. Quinn, is one of its most ardent supporters. And the Garden management is a vulnerable political target these days, given the Knicks' abysmal season, back-to-back sexual harassment lawsuits, and an outcry over the Garden's having billed the city's police academy $100,000 to hold graduation services. 
 David I. Weprin, the chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, said budget pressures on the state and the city could help the resolution gain support in Albany. The tax exemption costs the city about $11 million to $12 million annually.
 ''I think the climate has changed,'' Mr. Weprin said. ''I can't speak for Mr. Silver, but I don't see how the state is hurt by revoking the tax exemption, and I think there'll be a lot of pressure from members from the city, especially with talks about budget cuts.'' 
 The Garden, owners of the Knicks professional basketball team and the Rangers professional hockey team, won the exemption in 1982 after threatening to move out of the city to escape high tax, energy and labor costs. 
 Edward I. Koch, who was mayor at the time, said in a recent interview that he believed the exemptions would end after 10 years. Instead, the Legislature kept the breaks in place for as long as the Knicks and the Rangers continued to play their home games at the Garden. Council officials said they knew of no other deal that offered a full property tax exemption with no end date.
 In what could be a preview of the fight in Albany, City Council members debated whether it was fair to single out Madison Square Garden when government subsidies have been granted to the Yankees and Mets for new baseball stadiums and for a new basketball arena that will bring the New Jersey Nets to Brooklyn. Among them, the three teams are receiving more than $1.4 billion in subsidies over the next 40 years, including $230 million in property tax abatements, according to the city's Independent Budget Office.
 ''The city has a history of supporting its teams and making sure they can function profitably in the city of New York,'' said the Council's majority leader, Joel Rivera, who voted against the resolution. 
 His arguments echoed those of the Garden. ''The City Council's decision to single out Madison Square Garden, an engine of economic activity that provides jobs for New Yorkers, when more than a billion dollars in benefits have been given to the other pro sports teams in New York City, is obviously based on politics, not sound public policy,'' Barry Watkins, a spokesman for Madison Square Garden, said in a statement. 
 Ms. Sears, a Queens Democrat who has pushed to end the Garden's deal for the last five years, said Cablevision was welcome to seek a new deal with the city, especially as it considers building a new arena across Eighth Avenue from the current arena site. But its current deal was a mistake that needs to be corrected, she said. 
 ''We don't give tax abatements, we don't do anything, without a sunset clause,'' she said. ''It is ludicrous for any of us to think that we should continue, permanently, such an exemption.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); APPROVALS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GARDEN COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



830 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS ROMNEY VS. MCCAIN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: A Face-Off, Not Necessarily Televised

 BODY:
The Democrats may be planning a traditional use of television advertising, but their Republican counterparts are approaching the contest differently. 
 John McCain is doing something that is very much in character with the way he has run his political life, but that is also a bow to the fact that he does not have the financial resources of Mitt Romney. He is relying on the so-called free media -- interviews, news conferences and rallies -- to press his message. There will be some television advertising, his aides said, but it will be modest. 
 ''We will be communicating to as many voters as possible through the free media,'' said Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. ''We'll be doing some advertising. But this notion -- I've heard some reporters say to me today that Romney has a huge resource advantage going into Tuesday's contests -- well, the days of his resources being a significant advantage are gone.'' 
 Mr. McCain is planning to focus most of his resources on the states with big delegate troves: California, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Missouri.
 Going into Florida, Mr. Romney had suggested he would draw on his vast personal resources to finance more television advertising. But as of Wednesday night, he had not done so, raising the possibility that he, like Mr. McCain, would rely on the news media to carry his message across this broad field.
 Mr. Romney's aides said the focus now, after his loss in Florida, would be the protracted fight for delegates, while trying to rally conservatives who are suspicious of Mr. McCain to his side. Mr. Romney's campaign is looking to compete vigorously in California, with its heavy stock of delegates.
 Beyond that, Mr. Romney is looking to Utah, where his fellow Mormons are concentrated, as well as states holding caucuses or state conventions -- like Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, West Virginia and Minnesota -- where a relatively small number of people, who tend to be party activists and more conservative voters, will determine the outcome. 
 One decision that remains up in the air is what to do about the delegate-rich Northeastern states -- New York, New Jersey and Connecticut -- with their expensive media markets. The Romney campaign is holding out the possibility of spending money there to force Mr. McCain to do the same to deplete his cash. 
 Watch a third Republican candidate, Mike Huckabee, try to make his mark in his home state, Arkansas, and a fourth, Representative Ron Paul of Texas, to make a big play to win the caucuses in Alaska.
 ADAM NAGOURNEY AND MICHAEL LUO
 ISSUES New States, New Topics
 The race has in recent weeks been something of a tug-of-war between Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney over whether national security or the economy should be at the top of the voters' agenda. Mr. McCain viewed the war as his strongest issue, given his national security background, and Mr. Romney claimed the economy, given his background in business.
 But one of the most striking findings of the surveys of Republicans voters leaving the polls in Florida is that while they overwhelmingly thought the economy was the toughest issue facing the country, they thought Mr. McCain was better qualified to deal with it. Mr. Romney is planning to turn his attention to the housing crisis in California; a critical question for his political success is the extent to which he can get voters to view him as the better steward of the economy.
 New electoral territory could mean new issues. Mr. McCain talked often about climate change in New Hampshire but pulled back from that theme in South Carolina. Environmental concerns could be more prominent in California and as he appeals to more moderate voters in the Northeast. 
 Illegal immigration will inevitably be batted around in California, but the Republicans may want to be careful: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican who has been courted by both candidates but is expected to endorse Mr. McCain, has expressed his displeasure at his party's tough line over this issue. 
 MICHAEL LUO 
 MONEY A Financial Rebirth for McCain
 Mr. McCain, whose campaign nearly ran out of cash and ended the year with only $2.9 million, has recently been experiencing the financial resurrection he had always predicted would happen once he won a few contests. 
 Money is beginning to flow in -- sometimes $1 million a day -- since his New Hampshire victory. The campaign has raised so much that it may not accept public financing, as it once said it might be forced to do. 
 Mr. Romney, with a personal fortune estimated at up to $250 million, has shown no reluctance to open up his wallet to get him where he is. Donors have given him $45 million; he has kicked in $17 million of his own money so far. And good thing that: his reported spending already has topped $54 million. 
 The two big questions in the week ahead: Will Mr. Romney keep going back to his bank account? And will Mr. McCain's convincing win in Florida rally the party's contributors behind him?
 LESLIE WAYNE 
 STAMINA Running for President ... and Running
 As if competing in 21 states at once on Tuesday isn't exhausting enough, the Republican candidates regularly make ostentatious displays of endurance, with Mr. McCain, 71, seeking to prove his vigor and Mr. Romney, 60, trying to make him look creaky by comparison.
 Mr. McCain was caught nodding off during last year's State of the Union address, but so far his campaign has been free of such gaffes. Many days, he never seems to take a break, gabbing with reporters while he could be resting in private. 
 In his appearances, Mr. Romney, tends to mention how much energy the president will need. As if to prove the point, he held a 6:30 a.m. press conference on Tuesday in West Palm Beach, Fla. And when it comes to exercise, Mr. Romney, as always, is about metrics: he jogs three to five miles every other day at a pace of 7.5 minutes a mile. 
 JODI KANTOR 
 PHRASES Greatest Hits From the Stump
 Almost any speech by Mr. McCain is sprinkled with a reference to ''my friends,'' as when he addressed Floridians after his victory on Tuesday: ''My friends, I've always loved this beautiful state, from the time I was a young naval aviator learning my trade in Pensacola.''
 Mitt Romney often peppers his ''Ask Mitt Anything'' gatherings with a joke about how he asked his wife, Ann, ''Did you in your wildest dreams see me running for president?'' To which Ann Romney supposedly replied, ''You weren't in my wildest dreams.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RON PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



831 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Abruptly, Edwards Ends His White House Bid

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN and KATE ZERNIKE; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Denver.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
As of Tuesday afternoon, John Edwards's campaign staff members were still heading to North Dakota and Georgia. A television advertising campaign was about to hit the airwaves. And that evening Mr. Edwards was flying here to deliver what was billed as a major speech on poverty.
 That all changed around 2 a.m. Wednesday, when his spokesman, Mark Kornblau, called top campaign advisers to confirm what they had been preparing themselves to hear: It was over.
 Faced with the prospect of coming out of next Tuesday's primaries with only two realistic possibilities -- kingmaker or spoiler -- Mr. Edwards and his wife, Elizabeth, had decided it was time to get out.
 ''He wanted to have a shot at being president,'' said Joe Trippi, a senior adviser. ''He wanted to have a chance to change people's lives, not be a spoiler or a kingmaker and not play political games.'' 
 So Mr. Edwards made the end of his candidacy official on Wednesday where it began 13 months earlier, when he became the first major Democrat to declare his candidacy. 
 With houses draped in American flags as a backdrop, Mr. Edwards climbed on a riser with his family, who had flown in from North Carolina. 
 ''It's time for me to step aside so that history can -- so that history can blaze its path,'' Mr. Edwards said, sounding hoarse from a cold he had been fighting for days. 
 It was the end of his second bid for the presidency, the first derailed in 2004 by Senator John Kerry, who later chose Mr. Edwards as his running mate.
 Mr. Edwards had begun setting the stage for this presidential run almost as soon as their losing campaign was over. He publicly reversed himself on his 2002 vote to authorize the Iraq war, and taunted Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton for her refusal to apologize for the same vote, hoping to appeal to a Democratic base that was increasingly antiwar.
 What he did not anticipate was the entry of Senator Barack Obama, who had been against the war in 2002 and who preached, as Mr. Edwards had in 2004, ''the politics of hope.''
 Mr. Edwards found himself in the role of understudy in what quickly became a two-star play. John C. Moylan, a close friend and campaign adviser, said Mr. Edwards had been constantly frustrated by his failure to grab media attention.
 ''Having the first serious African-American running against the first serious female -- it's a hard story to get into,'' Mr. Moylan said. ''There was an alignment of the stars this year, and it wasn't for us.''
 So Mr. Edwards's pitch to voters came down to the personal. Over and over, he spoke of his hardscrabble upbringing, his rise from poverty and what he described as the deeply held determination that led him out of difficult circumstances, growing up in mill towns in the South. 
 He pitched himself as a populist, but it was hard to overcome what became known as the three H's: his haircuts ($400), his house (28,000 square feet in Chapel Hill, N.C.) and the hedge fund where he worked after his 2004 loss (which invested in companies that foreclosed on mortgages of Hurricane Katrina victims in New Orleans, the city Mr. Edwards was trying to make the emblem of his antipoverty work).
 He also alienated many onetime supporters by abandoning his campaign approach of 2004, when he steadfastly refused to criticize his rivals by name, and by reversing his position on many of his Senate votes. Mr. Edwards insisted that his message of populism was unchanged and that his tone had simply become more urgent.
 Advisers said Mr. Edwards had been sobered, too, by Senator Edward M. Kennedy's endorsement of Mr. Obama after his victory in South Carolina last Saturday. With his antipoverty message, Mr. Edwards considered himself an heir to Mr. Kennedy's brother Robert, and had considered Senator Kennedy a mentor in Washington; he liked to point out that he occupied Mr. Kennedy's old office on Capitol Hill.
 Though Mr. Edwards was hugely outspent by Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, whom he frequently derided as ''the $100 million candidates,'' his campaign insisted to the end that money was not a problem. Aides said more than $3 million in online donations arrived in January, and on Tuesday, Mr. Trippi sent an e-mail message to supporters, telling them that the campaign was approaching a fund-raising record. 
 But results in the early contests were disappointing, friends said even before the South Carolina primary, and Mr. Edwards began grappling with the question of how long he could plausibly stay in the race. When he came in third in South Carolina, where he was born and where he won the Democratic primary in 2004, he began to seriously reconsider.
 As late as Monday afternoon, his campaign was insisting it would push forward, holding an optimistic conference call with reporters and issuing a memo titled ''Path to the Nomination'' outlining new television commercials across the country. Advisers insisted that he would be helped by two planned debates, a format where his campaign believed he shined -- even if the moderators sometimes seemed to forget there were not just two candidates on stage.
 It is unclear where voters who supported Mr. Edwards will go. While he called himself the most progressive candidate, the campaign's polling showed that he was the most appealing to conservative Democrats.
 Mr. Edwards did not immediately endorse another candidate, but he has long signaled that he favors Mr. Obama. The two have never been particularly close and did not serve together in the Senate, but associates of both said they had developed a cordial relationship during the campaign, and they talked by telephone Tuesday and Wednesday.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama made clear to Mr. Edwards that he wanted his endorsement, aides to both men said, but had not sought it out of respect for Mr. Edwards's active candidacy.
 Since the New Hampshire campaign, Mrs. Clinton has also repeatedly reached out to Mr. Edwards through telephone calls and private meetings, aides said.
 Advisers were emotional about reaching the end of the race. Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, who often said that they considered their campaign aides to be like family, have planned a get-together for staff members on Friday in Chapel Hill.
 ''We're all very sad,'' said Leo Hindery, a senior economic policy adviser who has worked with Mr. Edwards since he ran for the Senate. ''But I think he's very proud that as it stands this afternoon, these messages are out there like they weren't going to be before.'' 
 Standing on the muddy ground as he waited for Mr. Edwards to arrive here, Mr. Trippi wiped away a tear, his voice trembling as he talked about what went wrong. 
 ''We couldn't break through,'' he said. ''I feel like I let him down. I should have been able to think of something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Edwards on Wednesday in New Orleans after he gave a speech ending his campaign, ''so that history can blaze its path.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW HINTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



832 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Romney and McCain Tangle at Debate, but Also Try to Mold a Two-Man Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: SIMI VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney tried to slow Senator John McCain's momentum Wednesday night as their final debate before the Tuesday contests turned into a raucous and occasionally angry clash over their conservative credentials, the war in Iraq, their government records and charges and countercharges of dirty campaigning.
 Each accused the other of being soft on tax cuts. Mr. Romney painted Mr. McCain as ''outside the mainstream of conservative Republican thought'' with his positions on immigration, campaign finance and the environment. Mr. McCain painted Mr. Romney as a panderer who had changed his positions for political expediency. 
 The most heated exchange came when Mr. Romney accused Mr. McCain of engaging in ''dirty tricks'' against him in the last days before the Florida primary by accusing him of favoring a timetable for a phased withdrawal from Iraq. In a caustic encounter that saw the candidates often talking over each other, Mr. Romney called the accusation ''offensive'' and ''absolutely wrong.''
 ''It's an attempt to do the Washington-style old politics, which is lay a charge out there, regardless of whether it's true or not, don't check it, don't talk to the other candidate, just throw it out there, get it in the media, in the stream,'' Mr. Romney said. ''There's not a single media source that I've seen that hasn't said it was reprehensible.''
 Mr. McCain stood by his assertion, which has been labeled misleading by many news organizations, and continued to accuse Mr. Romney of wavering in his support of the troop build-up in Iraq. He noted that Mr. Romney had been the first in the campaign to use negative attacks, through millions of dollars of advertisements.
 The often-slashing attacks reflected the high stakes going into Tuesday's nationwide series of primaries and caucuses, which Mr. McCain hopes propel him toward the nomination. Mr. Romney is the most formidable obstacle in the way of that long-cherished goal. 
 Although perceived as the front-runner, Mr. McCain did not hold back during the debate and, in answering a question about whom Ronald Reagan would endorse, pointedly called attention to the fact that Mr. Romney has changed positions on several issues, including abortion rights. 
 ''Ronald Reagan would not approve of someone who changes their position depending on what the year is,'' Mr. McCain said coolly, as he sat on stage here in the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, in front of an Air Force One jet that flew seven American presidents more than a million miles around the world.
 The debate was sponsored by the library, CNN, The Los Angeles Times and Politico.com. 
 It was the first of the smaller Republican field. Earlier in the day, Rudolph W. Giuliani dropped out of the race and endorsed Mr. McCain. (One section of the modular desk where the candidates sat on stage was removed soon after Mr. Giuliani's exit was made official.) 
 Conservative orthodoxy -- and who best adhered to it -- was at the heart of the debate. The forum got off to a rollicking start when Mr. Romney, struggling after his loss in Florida the day before, questioned Mr. McCain on his support of an overhaul of campaign finance, which conservatives view as an assault on free speech; an immigration proposal that they decried as amnesty; and a program to limit carbon emissions that Mr. Romney said would raise gasoline prices by 50 cents a gallon.
 ''Those views are outside the mainstream of Republican conservative thought,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And I guess I'd also note that if you get endorsed by The New York Times, you're probably not a conservative.''
 Mr. McCain shot back, saying with a smile: ''Let me note that I was endorsed by your two hometown newspapers, who know you best, including the very conservative Boston Herald. And I guarantee you, The Arizona Republic will be endorsing me, my friend.''
 Mr. McCain said Mr. Romney had raised taxes as governor of Massachusetts by $730 million. ''He called them fees,'' he said. ''I'm sure the people that had to pay it, whether they called them bananas, they still had to pay $730 million extra.''
 Mr. Romney countered that he had raised fees, not taxes, and that the increase was only $240 million, and that many fees had not been raised for years. Some fiscal conservatives have criticized him for raising fees and closing corporate tax loopholes, which they argue amounted to tax increases. The Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonpartisan state watchdog group, put the increase in fees and corporate taxes under Mr. Romney at more than $740 million a year. 
 They two men even clashed on the value of their past experiences and the nature of leadership.
 Mr. Romney, a successful businessman before he became governor, pointed to his private-sector experience.
 ''I think in order to have somebody fix our economy and strengthen it, and it's our economy that's the root of our strength -- to provide for our military, for our families, we have to have a strong economy -- you've got to have somebody who's actually done some work in the private economy, who understands how it works,'' he said.
 Mr. McCain said the times called for a leader, not a manager.
 ''He's a fine man,'' he said of Mr. Romney. ''And I think he managed companies, and he bought, and he sold, and sometimes people lost their jobs. That's the nature of that business. But the fact is, we're at a time in our history where you can't afford any on-the- job training. And I believe that my experience and background qualifies me to lead.'' 
 The other candidates, Representative Ron Paul of Texas and Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor whose campaign has struggled since its upset victory in Iowa, received few questions, drawing several protests from Mr. Huckabee.
 ''I want to make sure everybody understands, this isn't a two-man race,'' he said. ''There's another guy, I would like to say, down here on the far right of the stage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Republican candidates debated at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in California. From left, Mike Huckabee, Representative Ron Paul, Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); LIBRARIES (60%); IMMIGRATION (56%); ABORTION (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); RON PAUL (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



833 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE DEMOCRATS OBAMA VS. CLINTON; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Final Two in a Multifront Battle

 BODY:
Even before Wednesday morning, the candidates had been befuddled by the sheer strategic challenge presented by Feb. 5. As if things were not complicated enough, John Edwards dropped out of the race, forcing the other campaigns to return to the drawing boards.
 The Clinton campaign offered a glimpse of how wide it views the playing field by buying airtime in a dozen states for advertisements on the economy, starting this week. Barack Obama's advisers say he is now advertising in 19 states. 
 Included on the Clinton list is California -- the state that is viewed by aides to Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Obama as the big battlefield -- and New York, Mrs. Clinton's home state. That decision reflects the strong challenge Mr. Obama is making to Mrs. Clinton there. (By contrast, Mrs. Clinton has yet to buy any advertising time in Illinois, Mr. Obama's home state.)
 Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton are looking at some of the same states as big targets, particularly California, New Mexico, Missouri, and Arizona. Mr. Obama is also looking to states that have caucuses rather than primaries -- he has tended to do well in caucus states -- as well as Kansas, where his mother was born, and Minnesota, a state with a strong antiwar sentiment. 
 Mrs. Clinton is looking first to California, New York, New Jersey and Arkansas, and some of her associates suggested she might now have a chance in Oklahoma with the withdrawal of Mr. Edwards, a former North Carolina senator.
 Both sides were moving Wednesday to assess whether Mr. Edwards would make an endorsement, and if so, what impact that might have. Mr. Edwards was not saying what he would do, but aides to Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton said they planned to push themes in the days ahead that were directed at supporters of Mr. Edwards, who are now in the market for a new candidate.
 Mrs. Clinton will put an emphasis on health care and poverty issues, both of which were central to Mr. Edwards's appeal. Mr. Obama will emphasize the populist refrain that entered his campaign speeches in the final days of the Iowa competition, and that sounded like an echo of Mr. Edwards's appeal.
 ''At the end of the day, he was a change candidate and we are a change candidate,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. 
 ADAM NAGOURNEY AND JEFF ZELENY
 ISSUES Guns and Butter Top Agenda
 The economy has overtaken practically every other issue in the Democratic race. The new advertisement titled ''Free Fall'' is one of two Mrs. Clinton is putting up across the country this week to highlight this theme. The campaign itineraries of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are filled with economic round tables, discussions about the mortgage crisis and job losses. Mrs. Clinton began zeroing in on the economy first; Mr. Obama was first to offer a tax rebate plan to stimulate spending.
 Yet Mr. Obama is suddenly placing a renewed emphasis on his opposition to the Iraq war. Through targeted television commercials, as well as in a speech on Wednesday, Mr. Obama sought to remind voters that Mrs. Clinton supported the war in Iraq. His surrogates are joining in, too, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy raising Iraq in speeches he is making on Mr. Obama's behalf.
 Health care remains a critical issue, especially with the exit from the race of Mr. Edwards, who had made it a top priority. Advisers to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama said that they viewed health care as a strong way to court Mr. Edwards's supporters in the week ahead, and that they would be hitting the issue accordingly. 
 JEFF ZELENY 
 MONEY Nine Figures Raised, and Hopes for More
 The Tuesday contests will test the financial resources of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama as never before: they are now wrestling with how to pay for big television advertising campaigns, cross-country travel, get-out-the-vote campaigns targeted to the districts, and polling.
 The candidates seem evenly matched financially: Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are expected to announce this week that they each have raised more than $100 million in 2007: $115 million for Mrs. Clinton and $103 million for Mr. Obama. Yet they are shoveling it out as quickly as they are taking it in. In January alone, the Clinton campaign spent $7.3 million on television advertisements while the Obama campaign spent $9.5 million. Both candidates say they each have around $20 million in cash left for Tuesday's contests, and both are including fund-raisers in their schedules. 
 The Clinton campaign wants to raise an additional $10 million by Tuesday, although many of its deep-pocketed donors have already given the maximum legal amount. The Obama campaign, which raised $1 million a day after his Iowa victory, says it has a broad network of smaller donors who might be able to write additional checks. 
 LESLIE WAYNE 
 STAMINA Catching Votes by Catching Z's
 Mr. Obama exercises daily and religiously; just Wednesday, he hit the gym at his Denver hotel. Mrs. Clinton does not make it nearly as often. 
 Unlike Mrs. Clinton, who tries to avoid late events, Mr. Obama seems to gather energy as the night wears on. But he also talks longingly about sleep in his campaign appearances, and at times, his voice has been so hoarse as to be unintelligible.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are both nappers, able to go from animatedly working a crowd to slumping over peacefully on a van or plane. But the contest may not come down to who can do with less sleep, but who can get more. Long-term sleep deprivation, said Dr. Neil Kavey of NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia, impairs not just public performance but also private judgment and problem-solving ability. ''A wise presidential candidate will make their top advisers get enough sleep even if they can't,'' Dr. Kavey said. 
 JODI KANTOR 
 COURTING THE MEDIA Peach Cobbler and the Press
 Campaigns have different ways of dealing with the press, and for the Democrats, the contrast could not be starker heading into Tuesday. Mrs. Clinton often engages in chats with reporters on her campaign plane. On Wednesday, the campaign even served peach cobbler to reporters flying to her events in Georgia; Mrs. Clinton held the pan while staff members scooped it.
 Mr. Obama is a different story. He rarely conducts small talk or engages in conversations with the journalists covering his campaign, and only this week started flying on the same plane as reporters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID AXELROD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



834 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Beats Wall Street's Forecast

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Boeing reported a 4 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit on Wednesday, topping Wall Street's expectations despite concerns over delays in the 787 Dreamliner. 
 Boeing said it continued to address problems in assembling the first 787s and slightly reduced its estimate for 2008 revenue and for deliveries. 
 But it kept the revised schedule announced this month for the new plane, which is not expected to enter service until next year.
 Boeing also characterized the outlook for its military contracting business and commercial airplane programs as ''very strong.''
 That helped lift the company's shares, by $1.88, to $82.84.
 While avoiding talk of specific time frames for the 787 program, the chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr. said the fundamental technology of the airplane remained sound.
 Despite the 787 problems and concerns of a possible recession in the United States, Mr. McNerney was bullish about the near-term future and noted that American carriers account for only 11 percent of Boeing's backlog.
 Net income for the quarter was $1.03 billion, or $1.36 a share, up from $989 million, or $1.29 a share, in the quarter a year ago. 
 Revenue was $17.5 billion, flat with a year earlier but slightly above analysts' forecast of $17.3 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (55%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008



835 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks to Close Stores And End Sandwich Sales

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
At the very least, Starbucks will smell like coffee again.
 As part of a turnaround plan, the beleaguered coffee giant said Wednesday that it would discontinue warm breakfast sandwiches at its stores and focus instead on healthy breakfast options and high-quality baked goods.
 ''In short, the scent of the warm sandwiches interferes with the coffee aroma in our stores,'' said Howard D. Schultz, the company's chairman and chief executive. 
 Mr. Schultz also announced that his company would close 100 underperforming locations in the United States while scaling back the rate of store openings domestically. At the same time, Starbucks will move more aggressively to open stores overseas, where business remains robust. He did not identify the locations that will be closed.
 In all, Starbucks will open 1,175 restaurants in the United States this budget year, down from its previous goal of 1,600. The company will open 75 more stores abroad than originally predicted, for a total of 975.
 Mr. Schultz's comments came as Starbucks reported anemic sales growth of 1 percent at stores open at least a year, the worst three-month performance in the company's history. United States sales have been battered by a weak economy and increased competition from the likes of McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts. Same-store sales for American stores declined 1 percent.
 Adopting a risky tactic that may alienate Wall Street, Mr. Schultz said the company would no longer provide same-store sales numbers, at least temporarily, as he moves forward with his turnaround plan. He said the company's decisions had been too driven by improving same-store sales rather than consumer needs and that same-store sales numbers would be ''erratic'' during the transformation.
 A similar decision in 2006 by Robert L. Nardelli, chief executive of Home Depot, infuriated Wall Street analysts. The decision turned out to be the beginning of the end of Mr. Nardelli's reign. 
 Starbucks reported earnings of $208 million in the first quarter of its budget year, which ended Dec. 30, a 2 percent gain over the same period a year ago. However, Mr. Schultz warned that the coming year would be difficult because of the reorganization and weakening economy.
 ''You would have to agree that the consumer is in a recession,'' he said.
 Mr. Schultz's remarks came after the close of markets on Wednesday. Starbucks' shares declined in after-hours trading by less than 2 percent, to $18.90. In 2007, Starbucks' stock declined more than 40 percent.
 What remains unclear is how Mr. Schultz will recapture the cachet that made Starbucks a customer favorite and Wall Street darling. On Wednesday, he said many details of his plan, ''including bold innovations that will reassert our coffee leadership, redefine the in-store experience and introduce core brand-building initiatives,'' will be announced at Starbucks' annual meeting in March.
 Mr. Schultz, who served as chief executive from 1987 to 2000 and is widely credited with Starbucks' success, was brought back as chief executive this month to try to restore the company's luster.
 Harvey Hartman, founder and chief executive of the Hartman Group, a food consulting and market research firm, said it was smart to get rid of breakfast sandwiches and revive the smell of fresh coffee. He also applauded Mr. Schultz's decision to focus on consumer needs rather than Wall Street demands.
 ''What we hear from consumers more than anything else is, 'It's not that I don't like Starbucks,' '' he said. '' 'It's that they are no longer as relevant to me as they used to be because I've changed, and they haven't changed with me.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Starbucks customer with a newspaper, coffee and a baked good at a shop in Seattle. The chain's turnaround plan includes redefining customers' in-store experience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Howard Schultz at a meeting for a product debut in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (88%); BUDGETS (88%); CLOSINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); BRANDING (50%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (79%); BOB NARDELLI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

 
