

201 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Tries to Mend Ties in South Africa

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: CULLINAN, South Africa 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton sought to rebuild American relations with South Africa on Friday after years of frustration over the nation's approach to issues like AIDS and the crisis in Zimbabwe. 
 Promising to ''broaden and deepen'' American ties to South Africa, the continent's economic and political powerhouse, she said the two countries would ''work together to build a global architecture of cooperation.''
 But she also made clear her disapproval of the nation's past policies on AIDS, which have been widely criticized as lagging behind science and allowing the premature deaths of hundreds of thousands of people through government inaction. 
 ''We have to make up for lost time,'' she said at an American-financed AIDS clinic here.
 South Africa is stop No. 2 on Mrs. Clinton's seven-nation tour of Africa, and a big part of her visit here seems to be about mending fences. South Africa's previous president, Thabo Mbeki, questioned the link between H.I.V. and AIDS, which deeply discouraged American officials who saw his nation as a crucial battleground over the disease. Nearly one out of five South African adults is H.I.V. positive. 
 Mr. Mbeki also refused to take a hard line against Zimbabwe, South Africa's neighbor, which has sunk into despair under the autocratic rule of its president, Robert Mugabe. Beyond that, the United States has been irked by South Africa's attempts to tone down or prevent United Nations action against Myanmar, a notorious human rights violator.
 The American-South Africa ''relationship was fraught with far more difficulty than the previous administration was willing to acknowledge,'' said an aide to Mrs. Clinton, speaking on condition of anonymity. ''We had little access and even less influence.''
 But with new administrations in both South Africa and the United States, there seemed to be a new spirit of cooperation on Friday, or at least a lot of talk about it. Mrs. Clinton called South Africa the ''economic anchor of Africa'' and praised the nation's strong financial sector, which she said had mostly escaped the credit crunch that plagued much of the rest of the world. ''Frankly, we could learn a lot from your example,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a business leader luncheon.
 But the South Africans were vague about exactly what they might do differently after her visit. South Africa's foreign minister, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, said, ''We promised to continue to work with the people of Zimbabwe to implement the agreement that they signed,'' referring to an awkward power-sharing agreement Mr. Mugabe struck with Zimbabwe's opposition after a bloody election season last year. 
 And compared with Kenya, where thousands of people lined the street just to catch a glimpse of Mrs. Clinton ducking into her armored Chrysler, the public reaction to her arrival in South Africa was decidedly cooler. 
 It was hard to find stories about the visit in local newspapers, and at the business luncheon where she spoke, there were dozens of empty seats. Mrs. Clinton's aides also confided that there were complications trying to arrange a meeting with South Africa's new president, Jacob Zuma. The two are scheduled to meet Saturday, but the Clinton entourage will have to detour several hundred miles to Durban, on the Atlantic Coast, to see him.
 On Friday morning, Mrs. Clinton visited the father figure of post-apartheid South Africa and a hero across the world, Nelson Mandela. It was not so much an official act as a time to see an old friend. Mr. Mandela, 91, is no longer actively engaged in African affairs, as he was during Bill Clinton's presidency, when he and the Clintons grew close. According to a person who witnessed the visit, he was frail and quiet as Mrs. Clinton chatted with him, holding his hand.
 As the sun was sinking and the hills were darkening, Mrs. Clinton stood shoulder to shoulder with two patients at the AIDS clinic here. ''When I first found out my status, I felt my world was collapsing on top of me,'' said Simangele Ncube. ''But look at me today. I stand in front of you a beautiful woman. The virus is not written in my face. But I am H.I.V. positive.''
 Mrs. Clinton seemed almost too moved to speak and nodded solemnly.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a visit to South Africa by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton misstated the location of Durban, where she met the new president of South Africa, Jacob Zuma. (The error was repeated in an article about Mrs. Clinton's visit on Sunday.) Durban is on the coast of the Indian Ocean, not the Atlantic Ocean. The article on Sunday also referred incorrectly to Durban's size. It is South Africa's third-largest city, with a population of more than 3 million; it is not a ''beach town.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in Pretoria on Friday with the South African foreign minister, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JON HRUSA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); AIDS POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); THABO MBEKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ZIMBABWE (95%); AFRICA (92%); KENYA (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



202 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Turns, Washington Looks Better

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
What if in the end they got it right?
 What if, amid all their missteps and all the harsh criticism, the people in charge of battling the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression -- Ben Bernanke, Timothy Geithner, Lawrence Summers, Henry Paulson and the rest -- basically succeeded?
 It is clearly too soon to know for sure. But the evidence is now pointing pretty strongly in one direction: history books may conclude that the financial crisis of 2008 turned out to be far less bad than it could have been and that Washington deserved much of the credit.
 The Labor Department announced Friday that the economy lost fewer jobs in July than in any month since before Lehman Brothers collapsed last fall. Credit markets no longer look anything like they did after Lehman's collapse and are in considerably better shape than just a few months ago. Stocks are up almost 50 percent from their March low. ''It's over,'' the economists at Barclays Capital declared Friday, referring to the Great Recession. 
 The news has been good enough that the Obama administration spent Friday trumpeting its record. More telling, however, is the fact that even Nouriel Roubini, the prophetically pessimistic economist who saw the crisis coming (and doesn't think the recessionhas yet ended), is now praising policy makers. He recently urged that Mr. Bernanke be reappointed as Federal Reserve chairman, saying he helped avert a ''near depression that seemed highly likely after the financial collapse last fall.''
 Washington's early responses to the bubbles in real estate and stocks, and then to the crisis that followed, were full of mistakes. But since the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the record has started to change. The government has undertaken one extraordinary effort after another to revive the economy, and the economy has seemed to respond. 
 Last September, the Fed, the Bush administration and Congress pushed through an unpopular $700 billion bailout plan to keep other parts of the financial markets from collapsing. In subsequent months, the Fed -- the subject of much recent criticism from both Democrats and Republicans in Congress -- quickly propped up individual credit markets when they sagged.
 And the Obama administration, having failed in its early weeks to calm the financial markets, eventually managed to do just that. It pushed for a stimulus bill, over unanimous Republican opposition in the House, that is certainly imperfect but that has already saved more than 500,000 jobs, according to separate estimates by two prominent research firms, IHS Global Insight and Moody'sEconomy.com. The White House also endured withering criticism from liberals who argued that credit markets would remain dysfunctional without a government takeover of banks.
 ''Bernanke, Obama, Geithner and Summers were intelligent enough to know that the right-wing crowd was crazy to say, 'Let the banks go bankrupt,' and confident enough to ignore the left-wing 'Nationalize the banks' crowd,'' said Robert Barbera, a longtime economist and author of the recent ''The Cost of Capitalism,'' which criticizes the Fed for allowing the housing bubble to grow so large. ''I give them very high marks.''
 Many people, of course, would not be so charitable. And that's understandable. The economy remains in very bad shape, and economists think the unemployment rate still has further to rise. 
 Most confusing of all, no one can know how bad -- or how good -- the economy might have been if the government hadn't pursued the aggressive policy it did. But there are certainly some clues. 
 A central piece of the Obama administration's and Fed's joint financial strategy was the banking stress test. The results of those tests, which showed the system to be in better shape than many (including -- full disclosure -- me) believed, began to leak in early May. Immediately, credit markets started improving. The TED spread, a comparison of interest rates that measures market fears, fell 43 percent over the next three weeks and is even lower today.
 As for the stimulus, economies in countries that enacted relatively large programs, like the United States, China and Australia, have survived fairly well this year, relative to forecasts. Countries that enacted smaller programs, like France, Italy and India, have not done as well, as Christina Romer, a top Obama adviser, pointed out this week.
 But the best clue may be history. Washington did not respond proactively to the financial crisis of 1929, and the Great Depression ensued. Japan didn't respond to its 1990s crisis with much force, and its economy languished. 
 Even the past year makes the case. On Sept. 14, 2008, policy makers allowed Lehman to go under. Financial panic ensued. Indeed, one notable aspect of Washington's recent successes is that they have been fashioned by the same people who helped aggravate the crisis. 
 Mr. Paulson, then the Treasury secretary, made the main call to let Lehman collapse, as David Wessel, economics editor of The Wall Street Journal, reports in his new book on the crisis. But within days, Mr. Paulson was on Capitol Hill arguing for the $700 billion bailout. Mr. Bernanke played down the housing bubble as a Bush administration adviser and at his 2005 confirmation hearing. Once the crisis began, he oversaw perhaps the most forceful policy response in the history of central banking. 
 Mr. Geithner may be the most fascinating character in the drama. As the president of the New York Fed, he failed to raise alarm about the Wall Street strategies that made the crisis possible. In his early weeks as the Obama Treasury secretary, his uneven performance led a few House Republicans to call for his resignation. In White House meetings, some advisers told Mr. Obama that they were worried the Geithner approach wasn't aggressive enough. 
 That could still turn out to be the case: credit markets aren't yet normal, and jobs are still disappearing every month. And some of the administration's specific programs, like the public-private partnership to buy toxic bank assets, have fallen flat. But the sum total of the response has been to erase a pervasive sense of fear in the markets and to allow lending to resume.
 Having done that, the White House and Fed face a new set of problems. Mr. Bernanke will have to decide how slowly to withdraw the Fed's enormous interventions. Mr. Obama will have to sell Congress on an agenda that he has vowed will move the economy away from its boom-and-bust cycles. On every item of that agenda -- health care, energy, financial reregulation -- there are reasons to wonder whether Mr. Obama and Congress will end up with a bill that makes a big difference.
 Just look at the record. Washington may be in the process of proving that it can halt an economic crisis. But it utterly failed to keep that crisis from occurring.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Major policy makers during the financial crisis have included, from left, President Obama, Timothy Geithner, Lawrence Summers, Ben Bernanke and Henry Paulson.(A3) CHARTS: Some Hopeful Signs . . .
. . . but There Are Caveats(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 National Bureau of Economic Research)(A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); LIBERALISM (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BEN BERNANKE (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (77%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (77%); HENRY PAULSON (72%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



203 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Federer Rejoining Tour, With Babies in Tow

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: FEUSISBERG, Switzerland 

 BODY:
It was a few hours before the Federers' first flight as a family. The new father, Roger, was sounding surprisingly relaxed as he sat on a terrace with a panoramic view of Lake Zurich and talked about crossing a much more imposing body of water -- the Atlantic -- with his wife, Mirka, and their identical twins, Charlene and Myla.
 The girls were born July 23 in Zurich; they were checked out of the hospital Tuesday. They already have traveling papers, and the first international stop of their very young, presumably peripatetic lives will be Montreal. Federer will return to competition earlier than he expected, for the Rogers Cup, after one of the best runs of his or any tennis player's life.
 ''I was obviously only going to do this if everything was safe and good,'' Federer said Friday morning, in his first interview since he won Wimbledon last month. ''Mirka went through a check yesterday. The babies have been at the hospital for 10 days, and everything is perfect. So we're doing it. Big family. Big trip. On the bandwagon. I'm really excited to see how we're going to manage it.'' 
 For most of the world's new parents, the idea of taking infant twins on a long-haul journey before they were three weeks old would not be cause for rejoicing. Not with baby carriers, economy-class seating and dread-filled seatmates to manage. 
 But Federer, for all his down-to-earth appeal, does enjoy his privileges. Although he often crosses oceans on commercial airplanes, he made Friday's trans-Atlantic flight in a private jet, with a baby nurse on board to help Mirka and Roger negotiate the trip and the jet-lagged nights to come.
 ''That's a big help,'' Federer said. ''But Mirka is really hands-on. It's great to have the help, but I think it's all been working well since we came home for three or four days. Mirka doesn't mind getting up in the night, doesn't mind feeding the babies at whatever time, changing the nappies. For her, if she can't do it, it's like she's missing out on something.''
 Federer has done his best not to miss much himself. With impeccable Swiss timing, Mirka gave birth in the fallow tennis stretch between Wimbledon, where Federer broke the record for Grand Slam singles victories, and the United States Open, where he will be trying to win his sixth straight men's singles title.
 ''We didn't completely just aim for a certain window, so for it to happen during this period of time, we got lucky,'' Federer said of the twins' arrival date. ''Because I was scared. You know how it is. After Week 25, you never know when a baby can come, so at the beginning of the French Open, I was thinking that we have to get through two Grand Slams, and Mirka has to be there. We're not in Switzerland. It could happen anytime really.''
 The Federers found out Mirka was pregnant in January, during a tournament in Doha, Qatar, and learned that she was expecting twins after a doctor's appointment during the Australian Open that month. Federer said he was thrilled at the prospect, but uncertain what such momentous news might do to his tennis game.
 In his next match, he overwhelmed Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina, 6-3, 6-0, 6-0, in the quarterfinals. ''It was like, O.K., seems like it's not affecting me,'' Federer said with a laugh. ''That was a good start. It gave me confidence.''
 He lost in the Australian Open final to Rafael Nadal, famously breaking down in tears. In March, he had back-to-back semifinal losses in hardcourt tournaments in the United States.
 But Federer surged at midseason, aided by several factors: a healthy back, Nadal's struggles and perhaps an increase in mobility that came with dropping nearly 10 pounds. He did not rule out the possibility that having Mirka's impending delivery occupying his thoughts helped him in some way.
 ''The thing is, I really thought it was going to do the opposite effect,'' he said. ''That I was going to be feeling under pressure, because I'd be feeling like I better win some more Slams before the babies came, and then apparently it's so hard to win Slams.''
 ''Maybe there was just this little extra at 30-all or at 30-40 against Tommy Haas at the French Open,'' he said, referring to his victory in the Round of 16 in which he lost the first two sets. ''And maybe all those little things come into play, because so many things are happening, and in tennis, defeat and victory are so close to each other. Sometimes those little things can give you a little lift without you knowing it.''
 Friday's interview was conducted in a spa on a slope in Feusisberg, a short drive from Federer's apartment on the south side of Lake Zurich. Originally from Basel, Federer moved because some of his closest friends reside in the area. He also owns a chalet near the Swiss resort town of Lenzerheide and another residence in Dubai, where he frequently trains. But Switzerland, where he typically only spends a few weeks a year, remains home. 
 ''Nice and quiet; drive five minutes and you have the cows,'' he said. ''I like it.'' 
 Federer publicly announced Mirka's pregnancy at the Indian Wells tournament in California in March. He decided, on medical advice, not to mention at first that they were expecting twins, although they did inform family and close friends.
 ''The next thing you know, I'm seven months through the year and at the end, nobody's really asking me questions about if it's twins or not,'' Federer said. ''And then I said, All right, I'll just play along until the very, very end.''
 That meant Federer continued to refer to the impending arrival of ''the baby'' through the many interviews and news conferences in Paris and London. And on Friday, as if out of habit, he lapsed into the singular on occasion, too.
 ''I had to really battle myself,'' he said. ''I had a couple where I said, 'We're really excited to have some babies,' and I was thinking, Is that already giving it away?''
 But after delivery (by Caesarean section), the tennis world has its latest set of identical twins to go with the world's top-ranked doubles team, Bob and Mike Bryan of the United States.
 ''I was thinking that they're going to be playing tricks on us like crazy,'' Federer said of his girls. ''But they don't look the same at the moment. I thought right away I wouldn't be able to tell the difference, but you know, one is a bit lighter than the other one, so it's not automatically the same right away. I can tell them apart very easily now, and Mirka, too.''
 Federer said he spent nearly three weeks at the hospital, sleeping in the same room with Mirka, who had checked in early; later, he was sleeping in the same room with Mirka and the twins. He still found time last week to practice for six straight days near the hospital with the Austrian player Stefan Koubek.
 ''I was sometimes very tired,'' he said. ''Don't know if it was more from practice or from not getting the sleep you usually get.''
 Federer, who turns 28 on Saturday, said he had received a congratulatory text message from Nadal, who missed Wimbledon because of a knee injury.
 ''I messaged him and wished him well for his injury and coming back to the tour,'' said Federer, who regained the No. 1 ranking in Nadal's absence. ''It's basically understood that we write each other in moments like this.''
 They will soon be able to speak face to face, and perhaps resume their rivalry. Both players plan to play in the Masters Series events in Montreal and Cincinnati, which are big-money prologues to the United States Open. The Open, the season'sfinal Grand Slam event, is the only one of the four that Nadal has not won.
 Federer has not lost in New York since 2003, but he will arrive this year with a bigger entourage and with the biggest career questions answered. In a burst of achievement this summer, he won the only major title he lacked, the French Open, and broke Pete Sampras's record for Grand Slam singles titles by winning his 15th at Wimbledon.
 ''It's a lot at once,'' Federer said. ''You almost want to have a longer break after that unbelievable win in Paris, so you can ride the Paris wave for so long. But then right away Wimbledon came, and I won that, too. But honestly, just today, I was in the shower thinking I haven't even really thought about my Wimbledon win at all the last week.''
 Raising newborns will do that to a parent. Now comes the challenge of raising them on the road.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger Federer with wife Mirka and their twins, Charlene and Myla, in a photograph posted on Federer's Facebook page. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); ATHLETES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%)

COMPANY: SWISS TIMING (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339950 SIGN MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3993 SIGNS & ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES (51%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (88%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



204 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Soros Gift Allows Bonuses To State's Needy Students

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
A $35 million gift from George Soros, the financier and philanthropist, will allow for a $200 back-to-school bonus for each of more than 850,000 low-income children in New York State this fall, state officials said on Friday. 
 The $175 million in bonuses are also funded by $140 million from the federal government under a four-to-one matching program for needy families created by the stimulus package.
 Mr. Soros's gift follows a $50 million challenge grant that he announced in May at the Robin Hood Foundation annual gala to fight poverty in New York. Together, the two gifts represent a new emphasis on poverty in his adopted city of New York since the economic downtown.
 ''Most of my philanthropic giving has been abroad,'' Mr. Soros, who was born in Hungary, said in an interview on Friday afternoon. ''I feel like I should do more in these exceptional times in the United States.'' Mr. Soros's charitable foundations, including the Open Society Institute and its sister organizations, have given away almost $7 billion over the past 25 years around the world. In response to the current economic crisis, Mr. Soros created a $250 million Special Fund for Poverty Alleviation.
 Children in New York State eligible to receive the money must have been from ages 3 to 17 as of last Saturday, and their families must have received food stamps or have been on welfare in July. The money will be directly transferred into their families' welfare or food stamp accounts.
 The bonus program takes advantage of the $5 billion allotment under the federal stimulus package to help needy families. With certain restrictions, those funds can be used for a variety of programs, including basic cash assistance, food stamps, job training and housing subsidies.
 Mr. Soros said he received his own unexpected bonus when he was a student. When he was studying at the London School of Economics, he worked nights as a waiter. His tutor found out and sent a letter to the Quakers, which had a history of charity: ''They just sent me 40 pounds without any strings attached. I thought that was the way to do it, without strings attached.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATCHING GIFTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FOOD STAMPS (86%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (62%)

ORGANIZATION: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



205 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Recognizing Long Odds, Maloney Drops Her Senate Bid

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ever since Representative Carolyn B. Maloney declared that she would run in the Democratic primary for United States Senate next year, party leaders have tried hard to drive her out of the race, making it difficult for her to hire campaign staff and helping her rival raise money.
 Through it all, Ms. Maloney, who represents parts of Manhattan and Queens, remained defiant, insistent about the need to give Democratic voters a choice and pledging to run an aggressive campaign. 
 In the end, however, she bowed out. 
 After several days in which she seemed prepared to formally announce the start of her campaign, Ms. Maloney on Friday instead said she was abandoning the effort as she confronted a reality that often gives pause to even the most ambitious politician: the prospect of losing a secure job for a long-shot gamble.
 ''It was not so much the objections of the party establishment that affected her decision,'' said a close associate who asked not to be identified because he did not want to be seen as betraying Ms. Maloney's confidence. ''It was the possibility that she might have to give up the job she loved.''
 Ms. Maloney, for her part, framed her decision in the context of having too much work to do in Congress to take on the demands of a statewide campaign.
 ''Running for the Senate is a full-time job,'' Ms. Maloney said in a statement. ''Giving up for a critical period of time the things I do best -- passing legislation, working on the issues, serving New Yorkers -- would put politics before policy. The right decision for me and the people I represent is to stay in the House of Representatives.''
 Ms. Maloney's decision accomplishes what the Democratic political establishment had long wanted: a virtually clear path to the Democratic nomination for Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, who will now be able to cruise into a potentially difficult general election with a vulnerable governor at the top of the ticket without the scars of a bruising primary battle.
 Ms. Gillibrand issued a statement within minutes of Ms. Maloney's announcement. ''Carolyn Maloney is a dedicated public servant and a passionate, effective advocate for the issues she fights for,'' Ms. Gillibrand said.
 Ms. Maloney's decision -- something aides say she agonized over for weeks, even as she assembled a campaign staff -- brought an end to political maneuverings among the Democratic Party establishment from Albany to Washington and even involved the White House.
 It is also a victory for Senator Charles E. Schumer, who has invested heavily in raising Ms. Gillibrand's profile and improving her credentials. 
 ''We all appreciate how difficult a decision this was for Congresswoman Maloney,'' Mr. Schumer said in a statement. ''She is on a very fast and sharp trajectory in the House.''
 Mr. Schumer and other Democratic leaders had embarked on an aggressive campaign to force potential challengers from the race because they feared a primary battle would deplete the financial resources of the eventual Democratic nominee and expose them to attacks that Republicans could exploit.
 In May, Steve Israel, a five-term congressman from Long Island, who had assembled a campaign team of his own, announced that he would not challenge Ms. Gillibrand after President Obama called him and asked him not to enter the campaign. 
 A few days later, Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, who had created a committee to explore the possibility of challenging Ms. Gillibrand, also decided to abandon the effort, citing the party's desire to avoid a contested primary.
 That left Ms. Maloney, who took office in 1993, as the only prominent Democrat who continued to take overt steps to enter the primary race, provoking such consternation among Ms. Gillibrand and her allies that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. phoned the congresswoman to gauge how serious she was about pressing ahead with a campaign. Apparently, Ms. Maloney took offense that President Obama did not deem her a serious enough candidate to directly phone her himself, as he did in the case of Mr. Israel, according to the Maloney associate who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Ms. Maloney and her advisers believed they could build a campaign around the political vulnerabilities they saw in Ms. Gillibrand, a former congresswoman whom Gov. David A. Paterson appointed in January to fill Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate seat.
 Ms. Gillibrand, who represented a conservative district in upstate New York, had taken several positions in the House that were at odds with the views of many of the liberal downstate Democrats who dominate primaries, including her support for gun rights.
 But the weeks that Ms. Maloney spent preparing for a run were hardly auspicious. Her former supporters and allies abandoned her in favor of Ms. Gillibrand, as Ms. Maloney remained coy about when she would formally announce her candidacy.
 Ms. Maloney also got a taste of how rough the primary would be when Ms. Gillibrand's political surrogates pounced on her after she gave an interview with a political Web site in which she repeated a racially offensive term that she said a caller had used in complaining about Ms. Gillibrand. Ms. Maloney later apologized for repeating the caller's remarks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Carolyn B. Maloney with Keith Hall, the Bureau of Labor Statistics commissioner, at a hearing on the economy in Congress on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (93%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



206 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: In Surprise, Martinez of Florida Announces His Resignation From the Senate

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Gary Fineout contributed reporting from Tallahassee, Fla., and Amy Green from Orlando, Fla.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, abruptly announced his resignation on Friday, saying he would step down as soon as Gov. Charlie Crist named a replacement, presumably before Congress returns from its summer recess after Labor Day.
 Mr. Martinez, a secretary of housing and urban development under President George W. Bush and former chairman of the Republican National Committee, had said last year that he would not seek a second term in 2010 and would retire from public life.
 But as the Senate left Washington for its monthlong recess, Mr. Martinez surprised his colleagues by announcing his imminent departure, first in a letter to supporters on Friday morning and then at a news conference at an airport in Orlando, his hometown, in the afternoon. 
 Mr. Crist, a Republican who announced in May that he would run for Mr. Martinez's seat, is now in the awkward position of selecting someone to finish Mr. Martinez's term. At a news conference in Tampa, Mr. Crist said that the search for a replacement would begin immediately and that he would not appoint himself.
 Mr. Martinez said he was in good health and was resigning to return to private life and spend time with his family.
 ''This is of my own free will,'' Mr. Martinez said, his wife, son and daughter standing behind him at the airport news conference. ''There is no impending reason, only my desire to move on and get on with the rest of my life.''
 Mr. Martinez would not comment on whom Mr. Crist might choose to replace him, saying he was leaving the matter to the governor.
 ''I think he's prepared to discuss a transparent and good process,'' the senator said. ''I leave that in his hands.''
 Florida political leaders said potential Republican successors could include former Senator Connie Mack and former Representative E. Clay Shaw, who served eight terms in the House, representing Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach, before being defeated in 2006 by Ron Klein, a Democrat.
 Mr. Mack told local news outlets Friday that he was not interested in the job.
 The chairwoman of the state's Democratic Party, Karen L. Thurman, called on Mr. Crist to appoint an ''independent caretaker.''
 The top Democratic candidate seeking Mr. Martinez's seat is Representative Kendrick B. Meek.
 On the Republican side, Mr. Crist is being challenged in the party primary by a former Florida House speaker, Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American from Miami, who is politically more conservative than the governor. Mr. Rubio quickly issued a statement calling on Mr. Crist to name a conservative to replace Mr. Martinez.
 Mr. Crist has come under criticism by Mr. Rubio and other Florida conservatives because of his strong endorsement of President Obama's economic stimulus plan, which Mr. Martinez voted against. But the governor enjoys substantially higher name recognition than the other candidates and a far bigger war chest heading into next year's campaign.
 He raised $4.3 million toward a Senate run in fewer than three months, while Mr. Rubio raised just $340,000, according to campaign finance disclosures.
 On Thursday, in what turned out to be one of his last big votes in the Senate, Mr. Martinez broke with the Republican Party establishment by supporting the confirmation of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court.
 In doing so, Mr. Martinez, 62, a native of Cuba who came to the United States when he was 15 to escape the Castro government, noted the historic significance of Judge Sotomayor's becoming the first Hispanic on the nation's highest court.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, announced his resignation on Friday at a press conference in Orlando.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK RUNION/LEDGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIGNATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (57%); CITIES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: MEL MARTINEZ (93%); CHARLIE CRIST (90%); MARCO RUBIO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); RON KLEIN (58%); CONNIE MACK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KENDRICK B MEEK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); TAMPA, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



207 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Eases Process For Repealing State Rules

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson issued a sweeping executive order on Friday that would allow a handpicked group of top aides to repeal state regulations they deem outdated or overly burdensome to businesses.
 With Mr. Paterson facing looming budget deficits and eager to squeeze savings out of state spending, the order will give his inner circle -- and those with access to it -- far tighter control over New York's sprawling bureaucracy while diminishing the influence of commissioners and agency officials. 
 When an earlier version of the order was obtained by the news media last year, it caused an outcry among labor, environmental and consumer groups, who feared that the plan would make it too easy for industries to weaken regulations and rules they opposed. Mr. Paterson's aides backed away from the proposal and said it was only a draft. 
 But the final order appears largely unchanged from the draft. The order establishes a regulatory review and reform committee, made up of five senior members of Mr. Paterson's cabinet and led by his secretary, Lawrence S. Schwartz, who has described himself as Mr. Paterson's ''enforcer.'' 
 Agencies are already required to conduct lengthy reviews of new procedures and regulations before they become final. But under the new order, they will also be required to review such rules after they are put into effect. 
 Officials will be required to invite public comment on whether any existing rules and regulations -- no matter when they were enacted -- are ''unnecessary, unbalanced, unwise, duplicative or unduly burdensome.'' The committee would then reconsider rules that have generated the most criticism.
 The first round of review will involve seven departments and agencies, including those responsible for environmental, health, liquor and labor regulations.
 ''There are clear examples of times when government regulations are imperative,'' Mr. Paterson said in a statement. ''The economic crisis that our country is currently facing was created, in part, by lax or nonexistent regulation on some of our largest financial institutions. However, a responsive and balanced regulatory system is also vital to the promotion of New York State's economy and the welfare of its citizens.''
 Mr. Paterson, a liberal Democrat who has taken up the mantle of fiscal conservatism in response to the state's economic crisis, has in recent months faced a loss of support from labor unions and other traditional Democratic constituencies worried about his chances of winning election next year. 
 As a result, Mr. Paterson is under significant pressure to win political and financial support from business and industry groups, many of which issued statements Friday praising the order.
 ''Governor Paterson's proposal on regulatory reform rightly recognizes that state government needs to remove obstacles to private-sector job growth in order for New York's economy to recover,'' said Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State.
 But it drew criticism from good-government groups who questioned how transparent the new committee's deliberations will be, and why the committee was even necessary.
 ''All this will do is tie agencies up in knots at a time when they have fewer resources than ever to carry out their essential functions,'' said Laura Haight of the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonpartisan watchdog group. ''This is a backdoor assault on New York's laws to protect our health, environment and safety, which is sure to be greeted with cheers from New York's business community.''
 Environmental groups were particularly incensed by the timing of the announcement, a day after Mr. Paterson proposed ambitious targets for reducing New York's carbon emissions. 
 ''When they circulated this last year, business groups said their top priority was overturning climate change regulations,'' said Robert J. Moore, executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York. ''Yesterday they were asking us for a quote in support of the climate change proposal. Today they release this, and they didn't even give us a heads-up. Talk about cynical.''
 Morgan Hook, a spokesman for the governor, denied that the order was meant to undermine consumer and environmental regulations. 
 ''Just because there is this process by which we will review regulations does not mean that we are going to repeal or change regulations that the governor supports or that are working,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); K S ADAMS JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



208 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Moving Into a Digital Future, Where Textbooks Are History

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
At Empire High School in Vail, Ariz., students use computers provided by the school to get their lessons, do their homework and hear podcasts of their teachers' science lectures. 
 Down the road, at Cienega High School, students who own laptops can register for ''digital sections'' of several English, history and science classes. And throughout the district, a Beyond Textbooks initiative encourages teachers to create -- and share -- lessons that incorporate their own PowerPoint presentations, along with videos and research materials they find by sifting through reliable Internet sites. 
 Textbooks have not gone the way of the scroll yet, but many educators say that it will not be long before they are replaced by digital versions -- or supplanted altogether by lessons assembled from the wealth of free courseware, educational games, videos and projects on the Web. 
 ''Kids are wired differently these days,'' said Sheryl R. Abshire, chief technology officer for the Calcasieu Parish school system in Lake Charles, La. ''They're digitally nimble. They multitask, transpose and extrapolate. And they think of knowledge as infinite. 
 ''They don't engage with textbooks that are finite, linear and rote,'' Dr. Abshire continued. ''Teachers need digital resources to find those documents, those blogs, those wikis that get them beyond the plain vanilla curriculum in the textbooks.'' 
 In California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger this summer announced an initiative that would replace some high school science and math texts with free, ''open source'' digital versions. 
 With California in dire straits, the governor hopes free textbooks could save hundreds of millions of dollars a year. 
 And given that students already get so much information from the Internet, iPods and Twitter feeds, he said, digital texts could save them from lugging around ''antiquated, heavy, expensive textbooks.'' 
 The initiative, the first such statewide effort, has attracted widespread attention, since California, together with Texas, dominates the nation's textbook market. 
 Many superintendents are enthusiastic. 
 ''In five years, I think the majority of students will be using digital textbooks,'' said William M. Habermehl, superintendent of the 500,000-student Orange County schools. ''They can be better than traditional textbooks.'' 
 Schools that do not make the switch, Mr. Habermehl said, could lose their constituency.
 ''We're still in a brick-and-mortar, 30-students-to-1-teacher paradigm,'' Mr. Habermehl said, ''but we need to get out of that framework to having 200 or 300 kids taking courses online, at night, 24/7, whenever they want.''
 ''I don't believe that charters and vouchers are the threat to schools in Orange County,'' he said. ''What's a threat is the digital world -- that someone's going to put together brilliant $200 courses in French, in geometry by the best teachers in the world.'' 
 But the digital future is not quite on the horizon in most classrooms. For one thing, there is still a large digital divide. Not every student has access to a computer, a Kindle electronic reader device or a smartphone, and few districts are wealthy enough to provide them. So digital textbooks could widen the gap between rich and poor. 
 ''A large portion of our kids don't have computers at home, and it would be way too costly to print out the digital textbooks,'' said Tim Ward, assistant superintendent for instruction in California's 24,000-student Chaffey Joint Union High School District, where almost half the students are from low-income families. 
 Many educators expect that digital textbooks and online courses will start small, perhaps for those who want to study a subject they cannot fit into their school schedule or for those who need a few more credits to graduate.
 Although California education authorities are reviewing 20 open-source high school math and science texts to make sure they meet California's exacting academic standards in time for use this fall -- and will announce this week which ones meet state standards -- quick adoption is unlikely. 
 ''I want our teachers to have the best materials available, and with digital textbooks, we could see the best lessons taught by the most dynamic teachers,'' said John A. Roach, superintendent of the Carlsbad, Calif., schools. ''But they're not going to replace paper texts right away.'' 
 Whenever it comes, the online onslaught -- and the competition from open-source materials -- poses a real threat to traditional textbook publishers. 
 Pearson, the nation's largest one, submitted four texts in California, all of them already available online, as free supplements to their texts. 
 ''We believe that the world is going digital, but the jury's still out on how this will evolve,'' said Wendy Spiegel, a Pearson spokeswoman. ''We're agnostic, so we'll provide digital, we'll provide print, and we'll see what our customers want.'' 
 Most of the digital texts submitted for review in California came from a nonprofit group, CK-12 Foundation, that develops free ''flexbooks'' that can be customized to meet state standards, and added to by teachers. Its physics flexbook, a Web-based, open-content compilation, was introduced in Virginia in March. 
 ''The good part of our flexbooks is that they can be anything you want,'' said Neeru Khosla, a founder of the group. ''You can use them online, you can download them onto a disk, you can print them, you can customize them, you can embed video. When people get over the mind-set issue, they'll see that there's no reason to pay $100 a pop for a textbook, when you can have the content you want free.''
 The move to open-source materials is well under way in higher education -- and may be accelerated by President Obama's proposal to invest in creating free online courses as part of his push to improve community colleges. 
 Around the world, hundreds of universities, including M.I.T. and King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia, now use and share open-source courses. Connexions, a Rice University nonprofit organization devoted to open-source learning, submitted an algebra text to California. 
 But given the economy, many educators and technology experts agree that the K-12 digital revolution may be further off. 
 ''There's a lot of stalled purchasing and decision making right now,'' said Mark Schneiderman, director of federal education policy at the Software & Information Industry Association. ''But it's going to happen.'' 
 For all the attention to the California initiative, digital textbooks are only the start of the revolution in educational technology. 
 ''We should be bracing ourselves for way more interactive, way more engaging videos, activities and games,'' said Marina Leight of the Center for Digital Education, which promotes digital education through surveys, publications and meetings. 
 Vail's Beyond Textbooks effort has moved in that direction. In an Empire High School history class on elections, for example, students created their own political parties, campaign Web sites and videos.
 ''Students learn the same concepts, but in a different way,'' said Matt Donaldson, Empire's principal. 
 ''We've mapped out our state standards,'' Mr. Donaldson said, ''and our teachers have identified whatever resources they feel best covers them, whether it's a project they created themselves or an interesting site on the Internet. What they don't do, generally, is take chapters from textbooks.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In California, high school interns try out digital ''flexbooks'' created by the CK-12 Foundation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HOMEWORK (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PODCASTING (89%); MOBILE MEDIA (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); HISTORY (78%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



209 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Natural Man

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ROSEN. 
Jonathan Rosen is the editorial director of Nextbook and the author, most recently, of ''The Life of the Skies: Birding at the End of Nature.''

 BODY:
THE WILDERNESS WARRIOR
 Theodore Roosevelt and the Crusade for America
 By Douglas Brinkley
 Illustrated. 940 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $34.99
 It is hard to believe today that there was a time when securing Pelican Island, Yosemite and the Grand Canyon were controversial decisions denounced as a federal land grab inimical to states' rights and economic growth. Of course every generation has its own idea of progress, beauty and necessity. What made Theodore Roosevelt a conservationist hero was his conviction that pelicans, 2,000-year-old redwood trees and ancient rock formations belonged to future generations of Americans as well as to the past. Weighed against eternity, what were the arguments of mining magnates, plume hunters, local businesses and assorted congressmen? From the time he became president, in 1901, until he left office 100 years ago, Roosevelt saved over 234 million acres of wild America. 
 How a city-born child of privilege became one of the greatest forces in American conservation is the subject of Douglas Brinkley's vast, inspiring and enormously entertaining book, ''The Wilderness Warrior: Theodore Roosevelt and the Crusade for America.'' The subtitle is telling -- the crusade for America, not ''wild America'' -- because for Roosevelt, living forests and petrified forests, bird preserves and buffalo ranges were essential for the country's survival as a moral and military power. 
 It all began, like so many conservationist journeys, with birds. When he was 12, the nearsighted boy received a pair of eyeglasses and discovered the beauty and abundance of avifauna. Roosevelt learned taxidermy from a man who had traveled with John James Audubon, and he came to feel a personal link to the great naturalist-artist. Though he grew up in Manhattan on the far side of ''On the Origin of Species'' and the Civil War, and was only 32 when the director of the 1890 census announced the death of the frontier, Roosevelt felt a deep nostalgia for the age of hunter-explorers for whom science, divine purpose and nation-building were all of a piece. 
 Roosevelt decided at an early age that he was going to be a naturalist. His father was a founder of the American Museum of Natural History and also a supporter of the animal rights activist Henry Bergh, the eccentric creator of the A.S.P.C.A. Brinkley's book abounds in portraits of important, neglected figures who shaped Roosevelt's conservation ethic, from the once popular children's book author Capt. Mayne Reid, who peppered his outdoor adventures with the Latinate names of plants and animals, to Roosevelt's eccentric, fish-loving uncle, Robert B. Roosevelt, a pioneering ichthyologist, a crusader against overfishing, and a womanizer who presented his conquests with green gloves (which gives a whole new meaning to going green). 
 All his life Roosevelt sought out and learned from naturalists, and it is wonderful to see John Burroughs and Frank Chapman and George Bird Grinnell get their due. They pointed him to places that needed saving, they hunted and camped with him and they made him feel part of a fraternity of naturalists that organically grew into a fraternity of conservationists. 
 A turning point in Roosevelt's life, narrated here with great feeling, was his visit to the Dakota Badlands in 1883 to hunt buffalo, already rare. When his young wife died the following year, he retreated to the Badlands to heal himself spiritually and develop himself physically, hurling himself into ranching, hunting and writing. In some sense the Badlands saved him, and Roosevelt's determination in later years to preserve as much of the West as he could -- bringing back buffalo to Oklahoma, declaring Devils Tower in Wyoming a national monument -- was in part a desire to return the favor.
 By the time he took over the presidency after McKinley's assassination in 1901, Roosevelt was primed for environmental action. He created the National Wildlife Refuge System and made the United States Forest Service and the Biological Survey progressive and energetic agents for wildlife and habitat protection. The maps at the end of the book, illustrating the national forests, federal bird reservations and national parks and monuments Roosevelt created or expanded, are eloquent testament to his success, though Brinkley also looks at Roosevelt's environmental failures, often caused by Western ''reclamation'' projects. He failed to secure the beautiful Hetch Hetchy Valley inside Yosemite National Park, which was eventually flooded to provide water and hydroelectric power for San Francisco. Roosevelt, for all his radicalism, was a pragmatist who believed in preservation and growth, then as now a difficult balance. 
 Brinkley, a professor of history at Rice University, has absorbed a huge amount of research, but encyclopedic inclusiveness and repetition occasionally mar narrative movement, and a 940-page book does not need sentences like this one describing Cuban crustaceans: ''Unlike the stone crabs of Maine, these red crabs, by contrast, weren't particularly good-tasting; from a culinary perspective they were off-putting.''
 And the book dances with ideas, without always exploring them. Brinkley refers often to Roosevelt's Darwinism. Roosevelt certainly saw himself as a disciple of Darwin, but Brinkley sometimes uses Darwinism as if it were synonymous with environmentalism -- as if to acknowledge the interconnectedness of human beings and animals is to conclude that both must be saved together. What is scarcely explored is how peculiarly American Roosevelt's Darwinism was, combining a belief in natural selection with the intuition that God made the world and that human beings -- especially Americans -- were inevitably stewards of it. Brinkley quotes Roosevelt writing a year before his death: ''Thank Heaven I sat at the feet of Darwin and Huxley.'' Roosevelt was not being ironic; he could thank God for Darwin. Just as he could be a hunter and a conservationist; indeed the two activities encouraged each other.
 But this book has Rooseveltian energy. It is largehearted, full of the vitality of its subject and a palpable love for the landscapes it describes. As in Roosevelt's own life, personality trumps all -- what remains unforgettable in ''The Wilderness Warrior'' is the image of Roosevelt, in 1903, camping in the snows of Yosemite with John Muir. Muir set a dead pine tree on fire like a giant torch, and the two men danced before it. (Later, Roosevelt agreed to place Yosemite Valley and the Mariposa Grove under federal control, as Muir wished.)
 It was a simpler age for environmentalists. Roosevelt talked about lordly elk and manifest destiny, a far cry from today's scientists with their complex computer models of climate change. Saving redwoods is one thing, properly inflating your tires something else. Roosevelt made conservation a vital, almost violent pursuit. It went with being manly, brave, patriotic. It was as populated with animals as any children's book. It was scientific and yet saturated with religious meaning, patrician but populist, global and yet fueled by jingoistic fervor. It was fun.
 It is hard to know how useful Roosevelt remains as a political model. (His critics often had a point -- Mark Twain, who liked Roosevelt personally, felt he was ready to ''kick the Constitution into the backyard whenever it gets in the way.'') What this book makes abundantly clear is that his inspiration, vision and courage were as rare 100 years ago as they are today and that without them our country would be uglier, and poorer. Most usefully, it is a vital reminder of the key element of conservation, so often neglected: You cannot save what you do not love. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN
PHOTOGRAPH FROM ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.BR1)
 Roosevelt with the conservationist John Muir at Glacier Point in Yosemite, 1906. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM MPI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.BR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); BIRDS (90%); ANIMALS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ETHICS (77%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (76%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (76%); HISTORY (75%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (73%); MAMMALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); FISHES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ZOOLOGY (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Wilderness Warrior, The (Book); Wilderness Warrior, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



210 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DVDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Grindhouse at Your House

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
IN the 1970s and '80s I spent a lot of time in Chicago, where I lived and worked, haunting the city's still impressive range of grindhouse theaters, not just the magnificently decaying palaces in the Loop, but the many neighborhood theaters that operated with a discount policy, as low as 65 cents in one much-loved location.
 These theaters, like equivalent establishments along 42nd Street in Manhattan, mixed second-run Hollywood attractions with more disreputable, exploitation movies from small distributors like Hallmark, Bryanston, Dimension (before that name was commandeered by the Weinstein organization), Crown International and Roger Corman's New World Pictures, the MGM of the exploitation industry. 
 Much of this material was bluntly meretricious, but occasionally you would stagger home after seeing something truly strange and subversive, like Stephanie Rothman's feminist horror film ''The Velvet Vampire'' (1971), Rene Daalder's pointedly political analysis of revolution at a suburban high school, ''Massacre at Central High'' (1976), or Abel Ferrara's androgynous addict revenge film, ''Ms. 45'' (1981). In a way the exploitation scene was Sundance for outsiders, an outlet for visions so fiercely independent that no upscale distributor would touch them. 
 Some movies were regional releases, like Jack M. Sell's 1980 ''Psychotronic Man,'' the story of a Chicago barber with the power to kill by staring very, very hard at people he doesn't like. If ''Combat Shock,'' made in New York in 1983-84 and released by Troma Entertainment (in an edited, rescored version) in 1986, ever made it to Chicago, I missed it. But I'm grateful to Troma (one of the few remaining rough and ready outfits of the old days) for having issued a double-disc edition in honor of the film's (almost) 25th anniversary. The disc includes not only the 92-minute version that Troma released but also the director's original 100-minute cut, called ''American Nightmares'' and presented in a first-generation print that has never been seen on video. 
 Directed by Buddy Giovinazzo, a graduate of the College of Staten Island's film program, this is one uncompromising picture, a movie so eccentric and so relentless that no mere profit motive could possibly explain it. Lured by garish posters that promised a ''Rambo''-style revisionist take on the Vietnam War, audiences were confronted with a cosmically bleak portrait of an ex-P.O.W., Frankie Dunlan, living in claustrophobic squalor on the saddest block in Staten Island. 
 Saddled with a nagging wife and a keening, deformed baby (played by a puppet that resembles the mutant infant of ''Eraserhead''), Frankie sets out to find a few bucks to pay the rent on his rancid apartment. Instead he passes the day negotiating flashbacks to his gruesome war experiences and dodging the minions of the local loan shark. The claustrophobic despair only intensifies until Frankie takes matters into his own hands and returns to rescue his wife and baby the only way he knows how, with a loaded gun. 
 Shot in 16 millimeter on a budget of a few thousand dollars, ''Combat Shock'' owes much of its disorienting sense of the familiar made unfamiliar to Mr. Giovinazzo's shrewd use of obscure, unhappy corners of Staten Island. They're clearly New York but hard for an outsider to place. The Vietnam sequences were shot in the marshlands around the Fresh Kills landfill, much as the young Stanley Kubrick staged an unnamed war in Prospect Park for his first feature, ''Fear and Desire'' (1953). 
 Starring as Frankie is Mr. Giovinazzo's younger brother, Rick -- a gaunt figure whose burning eyes, long greasy hair and black trench coat make him look like a harbinger of serial killers to come. (One learns with relief from the Internet Movie Database that Rick Giovinazzo has gone on to a successful career orchestrating scores for Hollywood films like ''Role Models'' and ''Angels and Demons.'') The movie is channeled completely through Frankie's point of view, as he drifts through refuse-strewn industrial sites and past abandoned storefronts, his interior monologue of shame and resentment churning away on the soundtrack. 
 ''Combat Shock'' has clearly been influenced by ''Taxi Driver,'' but there is no mournful Bernard Herrmann score to romanticize Frankie's quest and no sensuous slow-motion shots of the city's mean streets to aestheticize his degraded environment. As one commenter observes in the accompanying making-of documentary, ''this film smells'' -- but not in a metaphorical sense. The entire world of ''Combat Shock'' seems to have aged beyond its sell-by date, an olfactory metaphor that Mr. Giovinazzo drives home with an unforgettable image involving a carton of spoiled milk. 
 Even Frankie's one point of pride -- that he witnessed a My Lai-style massacre in Vietnam but refused to take part in it -- comes into question, undermined by his own obsessive afterthoughts. Failed by the state, his family and his own consciousness, Frankie finally, quietly implodes, bringing it all back home in a climactic killing spree that takes the outward form of preparing a cozy, domestic dinner. It's filmed with the utmost simplicity, and it is very, very hard to take. 
 After directing a second feature, ''No Way Home'' (1996), Mr. Giovinazzo moved to Berlin, where he continues to teach film and write fiction. He has completed a film adaptation of his 1993 novel ''Life Is Hot in Cracktown,'' starring Kerry Washington and Brandon Routh, that is to be released directly to DVD by Anchor Bay at the end of the month. 
 Home video has, of course, provided an extension of 42nd Street that runs through millions of American living rooms, and movies every bit as obscure and unruly as ''Combat Shock'' are now receiving top flight DVD releases through distributors like Severin Films, Dark Sky and Blue Underground. 
 Despite the disappearance of grindhouses, a sizable public remains for contrarian films that subvert cheerful Hollywood formulas, that challenge the upbeat platitudes of mainstream independent films and that deny the rosy triumphalism of ''American Idol'' and so much network television. The movies are a constant invitation to escape our everyday existence, but as ''Combat Shock'' reminds us, but not everyone wants to flee in the same direction. (Troma Entertainment, $19.95, not rated) 
 ALSO OUT THIS WEEK
 I LOVE YOU, MAN A Los Angeles real estate broker (Paul Rudd) goes in search of a best man for his wedding, but realizes he has no close male friends. A lovable slacker (Jason Segel) presents himself as a possible recruit. Directed by John Hamburg. In The New York Times in March Manohla Dargis called it ''a fitfully funny comedy that owes much to Judd Apatow, the king of such sublimated man-on-man affairs.'' (Paramount, Blu-ray $39.99, standard definition $29.99, R) 
 THE CLASSFrancois Begaudeau plays himself, a junior high school teacher in a working-class arrondissement of Paris, in Laurent Cantet's adaptation of Mr. Begaudeau's autobiographical novel. It is ''an artful, intelligent movie,'' Ms. Dargis wrote in The Times in September. (Sony, Blu-ray $39.95, standard definition $28.96, PG-13) 
 THE TIGER'S TAIL An interesting experiment from the director John Boorman (''Deliverance'') that touches both on personal themes of alienation and the economic reality of Ireland in its boom years. It reunites Mr. Boorman with Brendan Gleeson, the star of his 1998 film ''The General,'' for an allegorical story of a prosperous Irish businessman haunted by a homeless double. With Ciaran Hinds and Kim Cattrall. (MGM, $26.98, R) 
 KATYN The mass murder of tens of thousands of Polish officers at the hands of the Soviet army in the first months of World War II is examined in a fiction film by the doyen of Polish filmmakers, Andrzej Wajda. ''The result is a film with a stately, deliberate quality that insulates it against sentimentality and makes it all the more devastating,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in February. (Koch Lorber, $26.98, not rated) 
 17 AGAIN The middle-aged Mike (Matthew Perry) magically becomes a teenager again (Zac Efron, of ''High School Musical''). With Leslie Mann and Michelle Trachtenberg. ''The director, Burr Steers, whose other credits include 'Igby Goes Down' and stints directing TV shows, keeps people and things moving fast enough so that you don't have time to worry about the details, like the inanity of the story,'' Ms. Dargis wrote in The Times in April. (Warner, Blu-ray $35.99, standard definition $28.98, PG-13)

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The DVD column on Aug. 9, about Buddy Giovinazzo's ''Combat Shock'' (1986), which was partially shot in the marshlands around Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, misidentified the location where Stanley Kubrick shot ''Fear and Desire'' (1953). It was shot primarily in the San Gabriel Mountains in California, not in Prospect Park in Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above and above left, Rick Giovinazzo in ''Combat Shock,'' directed by Buddy Giovinazzo, his brother. It's now out on DVD.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM TROMA TEAM VIDEO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); HORROR FILMS (76%); SUBURBS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



211 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Father

BYLINE: By DAVID MATTHEWS. 
David Matthews is the author of ''Ace of Spades: A Memoir.''

 BODY:
WHERE DID YOU SLEEP LAST NIGHT?
 A Personal History
 By Danzy Senna
 200 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $23
 Danzy Senna's ''Where Did You Sleep Last Night?'' ostensibly sets out to answer another question -- ''Don't you know who I am?'' -- posed by the author's father, Carl Senna, early in the book, when he visits after a lengthy estrangement to find that his 5-year-old daughter doesn't recognize him. Thirty-odd years later, Danzy Senna confronts the reality that her father's question still rings, still stings.
 While the author's mother, the poet and novelist Fanny Howe, is the product of an exhaustively documented, aristocratic white Boston family -- ''She can trace her lineage back to the Mayflower'' -- her father is the son of a black woman who stuck him in an orphanage for a chunk of his childhood and a ''white Mexican'' boxer who vanished shortly after Carl was born. All that remains is the scant oral history Carl's tight-lipped mother passed on to him, and a faded newspaper clipping about ''the Cisco Kid.'' 
 Senna, the author of the novels ''Caucasia'' and ''Symptomatic,'' wonders if her father's alcohol-fueled descent from young literary lion of the 1960s (he was the youngest editor at Beacon Press, as well as a published author and poet) to abusive husband and neglectful parent has to do with the negative space left by the father he never knew. 
 Her father's identity, she says, is ''as murky as the Louisiana swamp where he'd been born. He is neither a real Southerner nor a real Northerner. He is neither fully black nor fully Mexican nor fully white. . . . He is half of everything and certain of nothing.'' 
 ''Where Did You Sleep Last Night?'' finds Danzy Senna in full-on gumshoe mode, ready to take up the case. Her serpentine journey through the Deep South, as she sifts through the lies, horrors and obfuscations of her family's past in search of how her father came to be, makes up the most absorbing portion of the book. She's masterly at relaying -- and, more important, withholding-- information, so that every lead, every twist, begs for a page-flip. Is her father's mother really the daughter of the woman she knew as her sister? Is Carl Senna really the son of the mysterious Mexican pugilist, whom nobody can remember ever having met, or is he the illicit offspring of the Irish Catholic priest his mother followed from parish to parish? The author propels these early chapters along with the kind of snappy knockout prose Ross Macdonald might have employed, had he been given to long ruminations on race and identity in American culture. 
 Which is why it's so frustrating when, about three-quarters of the way into the story, she stops. 
 In those earlier sections, Senna's somewhat excursive tendencies add heft and context to the story. She effectively expands the search for her family's history into a larger meditation on the arbitrary, crippling and lingering effects of America's sustained racial monomania. Her observations are often nod-inducingly brilliant. Describing her attempt at explaining the American preoccupation with race to a group of incredulous black people abroad, she writes,''They were right: like those religious fanatics who see Jesus' face in clouds and window fog and rock formations, we did see it everywhere.'' 
 But as the story progresses, it becomes clear that Senna's search -- the spine of the book -- now extends to how best to conclude the narrative. Once she's cracked the case, she can't (or won't) close it. Turning what should have been the final three chapters into seven or eight (luckily, they're not long), Senna transforms a potential sprint toward a well-earned climax into a ponderous ''But wait! There's more!'' marathon. It's only by dint of momentum, carried along by the economy and beauty of all that came before, that we stick around. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl Senna and Fanny Howe, the parents of Danzy Senna. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''WHERE DID YOU SLEEP LAST NIGHT?'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LEGAL PATERNITY (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%); HISTORY (78%); LITERATURE (76%); POETRY (76%); ORPHANS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Where Did You Sleep Last Night? (Book); Where Did You Sleep Last Night? (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



212 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: The Rise and Fall of Donald Rumsfeld

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL. 
Christopher Caldwell is the author of ''Reflections on the Revolution in Europe: Immigration, Islam and the West.''

 BODY:
BY HIS OWN RULES
 The Ambitions, Successes, and Ultimate Failures of Donald Rumsfeld
 By Bradley Graham
 Illustrated. 803 pp. PublicAffairs. $35
 Before meetings in the run-up to the Iraq war, Bradley Graham writes, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld would make chitchat with Secretary of State Colin Powell. ''He'd talk about something that he knew was a hot button for Colin. It might be about voting rights or immigration or education or abortion,'' one participant recalled. ''And Colin, who is usually a cool head, would lose his cool. And I'd think to myself, Wow, Rumsfeld is screwing with his head. That's when I decided he was a very dangerous man.''
 Graham's ''By His Own Rules'' is less a biography of Rumsfeld than a study of Rumsfeld as a Washington archetype: the operator, the insider, the bureaucratic infighter. It does cover Rumsfeld's life from childhood on -- his enthusiasm for wrestling and squash, his attitudes toward money, his marriage -- but only cursorily. At the book's heart is Rumsfeld's behavior in committee meetings and boardrooms, with the focus on the skirmishes that marked the gradual deterioration of the war in Iraq. 
 The title is meant literally. Rumsfeld is one of those executives who are fond of lists, aphorisms and bromidic rules for living. Graham, a veteran Washington Post correspondent, traces Rumsfeld's management style through initiatives, guidelines, directives and the memorandums that Rumsfeld sent in such blizzard-like profusion that Pentagon employees took to calling them ''snowflakes.'' The result is a book that is overlong but authoritative and judicious, particularly on questions of where responsibility lies for decisions about the Iraq war. 
 Elected to Congress in 1962 at age 30, Rumsfeld, Graham writes, was a reformer who ''never met an organization he didn't want to change.'' He co-sponsored what became the Freedom of Information Act, and reliably fought for civil rights legislation. He was a darling of this newspaper and so skeptical about the Vietnam War that when Henry Kissinger saw Rumsfeld and his wife, he would sardonically flash the peace sign. Rumsfeld also had what Graham calls ''a deep moral streak.'' While running the Pentagon, he refused on ethical grounds to meet with defense-industry executives. 
 And Rumsfeld got things done. Bosses liked him better than subordinates did. He was ''high on energy and intensity and low on frills and compliments.'' Richard Nixon put him in charge first of the Office of Economic Opportunity, then of wage and price controls, and made him ambassador to NATO. Under Gerald Ford he became the White House chief of staff and then defense secretary, the youngest in history. (He would later become the oldest.) He kept Ford's trust while sidelining his rivals, Kissinger and Vice President Nelson Rockefeller. Such talents served him well as chief executive of the pharmaceuticals company G. D. Searle, where he turned a $28 million loss into a $72 million profit and brought aspartame to market; he got similar results in the early 1990s as C.E.O. of the General Instrument Corporation, a pioneer in high-definition television that needed a favorable hearing from the Federal Communications Commission. 
 Rumsfeld's ability to work Congress and the regulatory bodies helped him in business. By the end of the 1990s he was worth between $50 million and $210 million. But he was more than a glorified lobbyist. He amassed information patiently and thoroughly, and would not be bullied into acting before he had mastered it. And he has never lost his ruthlessness in questioning structures kept in place by mere inertia.
 As a candidate, George W. Bush had called for armed forces that were ''agile, lethal, readily deployable and require a minimum of logistical support.'' Rumsfeld seemed ideal for the task. ''I've never been in a company where I couldn't save 15 percent,'' he said in 2001. The fascination of Rumsfeld, the tragedy of him, is that the Iraq occupation was nearly wrecked by the kind of mistakes he had spent his career diagnosing. By the time Rumsfeld resigned, the day after Republicans were routed in the 2006 midterm elections, the United States was on the verge of outright defeat. The replacement of his strategy with that of the so-called surge has stabilized Iraq greatly.
 Graham's Rumsfeld is vain and peremptory, but sometimes effective and wise. Rumsfeld was rightly skeptical of the ambitious Iraqi exile Ahmad Chalabi, who, having won the ear of other American war planners, gave them a wildly inaccurate picture of the situation in Iraq. Rumsfeld's plan for invading Iraq was excellent, ''an evolutionary advance over what Rumsfeld had found on the shelf,'' and American forces took Baghdad in 21 days. Graham's view of Rumsfeld's role in abuses of prisoners is nuanced. Rumsfeld doubted that the Defense Department should be in charge of interrogating suspected terrorists in the first place. He authorized harsh interrogation techniques at Guantanamo in December 2002, with a flippant remark about forcing detainees to stand for long periods (''I stand for 810 hours a day''), but rescinded them the following month. Still, a Pentagon panel headed by former Defense Secretary James Schlesinger later blamed Rumsfeld for the way the techniques he had initially approved in the controlled environment of Guantanamo ''migrated to Afghanistan and Iraq where they were neither limited nor safeguarded.'' Graham seems to share this verdict. 
 After a career of moving from triumph to triumph, Rumsfeld, during his second stint as secretary of defense, somehow managed to get the least out of the people around him. The 1986 Goldwater-Nichols Act had formalized the role of the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in a way that Rumsfeld considered an infringement on civilian control of the military. In his early months, he quarreled with both the Joint Chiefs chairman Hugh Shelton and the Army chief Eric Shinseki. One three-star admiral tells Graham that it would have been futile to raise misgivings in such a ''bullying, dismissive'' climate.
 Rumsfeld has been accused of keeping forces in Iraq unnaturally low as a way of showing how efficiently a reformed military could operate. Graham sees this as only part of the story. It is true that during the invasion Rumsfeld constantly sought ways to ''off-ramp'' units if Iraq were to fall sooner than expected. But by 2005 he began to think seriously about how many troops were necessary to fight an insurgency. He came to the wrong conclusions. 
 There is little about David Petraeus in this book, but there is much about the retired Army general Jack Keane, who helped develop the case for the surge. The United States had a ''short-war strategy,'' Keane complained to Rumsfeld in September 2006. ''Nowhere in it is there a plan to defeat the insurgency ourselves.'' Changing course, he explained, would require as many as 28,000 more troops. Keane describes Rumsfeld as shocked at the news, ''as if he was hearing it for the first time.'' American forces, it turned out, were a bit too flexible. They were configured in such a way that they could pack up and leave anytime, and that was not lost on the insurgents, or on bystanders picking sides. 
 In this light, Rumsfeld is not just an inside-the-Beltway archetype but a particularly American one, the sort of person in whom a healthy skepticism toward established practice shades into contempt for it. His philosophy is that of the corporate Man in the Gray Flannel Suit in his boardroom, but it is also that of the itinerant Rambling Man in his boxcar: Don't pin me down. Both types fail to see that ''agility'' and ''innovation'' can be, in some contexts, synonyms for frivolity and lack of commitment, or that, pursued immoderately, flexibility can itself become a dogma.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rumsfeld testifying before the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, May 2004. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ETHICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); IMMIGRATION (56%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: By His Own Rules (Book); By His Own Rules (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



213 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Long Island: Trying Small Adjustments

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Many school districts in Nassau and Suffolk Counties bus children who live closer to their schools than the minimum distances set out under New York State law -- more than two miles for elementary and middle school students, three miles for high schoolers. 
 The 8,000-student Levittown district has provided busing for everyone who lives at least a half-mile from elementary schools -- three-quarters of a mile for older students -- because of safety concerns about busy roads and intersections. To transport all the students, it has supplemented its fleet of 100 buses with 35 contractor-operated buses.
 But last spring, Levittown placed a proposal on the ballot to increase the distance for elementary schools to three-quarters of a mile. The change was recommended by a citizens' budget committee, and would have saved $600,000 a year (an additional $200,000 in savings came from rerouting buses). 
 ''Given the economic climate, there was a lot of pressure to do something,'' said Herman Sirois, the superintendent since 1986. ''Since this wasn't directly related to the quality of education, the district decided to put it up for a referendum and let the voters decide. It was a hard choice to make.''
 In May, voters approved the reduction in busing, 2,113 to 1,795, though some have since complained that they were unclear about the effects. Parents have been signing petitions to restore the busing in 2010-11.
 WINNIE HU 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); REFERENDUMS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PETITIONS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BUDGETS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



214 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Worldwide Scramble to See Top Sports Events

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
IT may seem too early to be planning a 2010 vacation, but travelers who want to see the Winter Olympics in Vancouver this February or cheer their favorite soccer team at the FIFA World Cup in South Africa next summer had better get going. 
 Despite the recession, demand is high for both events, making tickets hard to come by and sending prices for any remaining hotel rooms soaring. But travelers can still watch their teams compete if they're willing to be flexible, spend a little more money and make their travel plans now. 
 In general, the easiest option is to work with one of the official tour operators designated to sell hotel and ticket packages. It is also a sure way to find a hotel room when most are already sold out and to have someone to contact who understands the ins and outs of these sporting events in case something goes awry. 
 Let's start with the 2010 Winter Olympics. CoSport is the only company authorized to sell Olympic tickets in the United States, and right now they're sold out of them. While there is a chance that some tickets will be released this fall, the only way to get them now is by purchasing a travel package. A recent search on CoSport's Web site pulled up several packages, including $5,136 a person for three nights at the Pan Pacific Whistler Mountainside Hotel and a choice of three events including the coveted Feb. 12 opening ceremony. 
 What if you've already booked a hotel room or are staying with friends, and just want tickets? Scalping is technically legal in Vancouver, and while the Internet is rife with scalpers, buyers run the risk of getting counterfeits. One alternative: Ask a Canadian to buy you a ticket this fall, when the next batch of tickets is released. 
 Have tickets, but don't have a place to stay? Nearly every hotel room in Whistler, downtown Vancouver and many of its suburbs are already taken by corporate sponsors, Olympic athletes or dogged fans. But some options remain for those who want to be in the thick of things -- just be prepared to pay upwards of $600 a night or sleep in quirkier places.
 There is an official regional cooperative Web site for the Winter Games, 2010destinationplanner.com, which offers lists of available accommodations and links to prescreened rental agencies and their apartments. Or, if you want to stay aboard a cruise ship, Newwest Travel & Cruises, based in Edmonton, Alberta, has chartered the Norwegian Star from Norwegian Cruise Lines and is turning it into a floating hotel during the Olympics. Rates begin at $1,050 a person for an inside stateroom, Feb. 10 to 13, including onboard meals and entertainment. 
 Travelers willing to stay across the border in Washington State can also find space. But don't expect any bargains. The Holiday Inn Express in Bellingham, Wash., about 50 miles south of the border, was $366 a night in a recent check on Expedia.com. 
 The World Cup is trickier. Matches will be played in nine cities across South Africa (from June 11 through July 11, 2010), presenting something of a travel roulette for soccer fans.
 As with the Olympics, the easiest way to obtain tickets is to buy a World Cup travel package, and there are three tour operators designated to sell them in the United States: Destination Southern Africa, Great Atlantic Travel & Tour and Cartan Tours . 
 Fans can also try their luck by entering the ticket lottery, being held in five phases. (The second phase began May 4 and runs through Nov. 16.) Tickets are awarded first come first served. For the time being, FIFA says there are no tickets left for the final, but a small inventory may become available in the third phase, Dec. 5 to Jan. 22, with a random draw taking place on Feb. 1 for any oversubscribed matches. 
 Unlike at the Olympics, however, where sports are tied to specific venues, and the dates and times of most events are already set, soccer fans won't know where, when or even which teams will be playing in South Africa until all 32 teams have qualified and FIFA holds its tournament draw on Dec. 4. 
 That means travelers hoping to watch the United States in quarterfinals, for example, won't know where the team will be playing -- whether it's at Green Point Stadium in Cape Town, or nearly 900 miles away in Soccer City in Johannesburg -- until just a few days before.
 Of course, that's always the case when it comes to the World Cup -- and the last-minute scramble is part of the fun. But following your team around will be more complicated in South Africa than at the last World Cup, held in Germany in 2006. Fans staying in Frankfurt, for example, were within a two-hour train ride from most United States matches. South Africa, on the other hand, has less reliable trains and highways, and moving from match to match requires flying. 
 To increase your chances of seeing your team at the World Cup, work with one of the official tour operators to lock in tickets, hotels and other travel arrangements now. These companies have pre-purchased blocks of hotel rooms and flights. Choose a city like Cape Town, Durban or Johannesburg as a jumping off point. When the finals are announced in December, secure the remaining travel arrangements including domestic flights and hotels in or near the city your team will play. (In the event the United States is eliminated, the package follows the team that beats them.) 
 Conveniently for tourists, the World Cup coincides with South Africa's winter, which is peak safari season, when diminished vegetation makes for better game viewing. For travelers who want to see the wildlife while they're in the country, Destination Southern Africa, based in Tucson, Ariz., with an office in Cape Town, recommends booking three nights at a minimum.
 ''If you only spend two nights,'' said Terry von Guilleaume, the owner, ''you only get one full day on safari, reducing your chances of seeing animals.'' 
 Group of Tours
 To ensure you get tickets and lodging at either the Olympics or the World Cup, consider using an official tour operator. Below, four packages: one for the Olympics and three for the Cup.
 COSPORT Three nights at the Pan Pacific Whistler Mountainside Hotel and a choice of three Olympic events including the opening ceremony on Feb. 12. $5,136. www .cosport.com.
 GREAT ATLANTIC TRAVEL & TOUR Round-trip airfare from the East Coast to Johannesburg, seven nights at a basic hotel and a United States match ticket. $3,295. www .greatatlantictravel.com.
 DESTINATION SOUTHERN AFRICA Round-trip airfare from New York or Washington to Cape Town, airport transfers, five nights at the Andros Boutique Hotel and a ticket to a quarterfinal match. $4,950. www .destinationworldcup.com.
 CARTAN TOURS Six nights at Shumba Valley Lodge in Johannesburg, airport transfers, a ticket to the final match and a city tour. $7,170. www .cartan.com. Prices are per person, based on double occupancy, and may vary based on airfare and types of tickets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Landon Donovan of the United States, center, in a World Cup qualifying match against Costa Rica in June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO LOPEZ-MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS (91%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (90%); SOCCER (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); CRUISES (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); TICKET SALES (76%); SPORTS FANS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (63%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); NCLH (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



215 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2128 words

HEADLINE: And You Thought a Prescription Was Private

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
MORE than 10 years after she tried without success to have a baby, Marcy Campbell Krinsk is still receiving painful reminders in her mail. The ads and promotions started after she bought fertility drugs at a pharmacy in San Diego.
 Marketers got hold of her name, and she found coupons and samples in her mail that shadowed the growth of an imaginary child -- at first, for Pampers and baby formula, then for discounts on family photos, and all the way through the years to gifts suitable for an elementary school graduate. 
 ''I had three different in vitro procedures,'' said Ms. Krinsk, now 55, a former telecommunications executive who lives with her husband in San Diego. ''To just go to the mailbox and get that stuff, time after time after time, it was just awful.'' 
 Like many other people, Ms. Krinsk thought that her prescription information was private. But in fact, prescriptions, and all the information on them -- including not only the name and dosage of the drug and the name and address of the doctor, but also the patient's address and Social Security number -- are a commodity bought and sold in a murky marketplace, often without the patients' knowledge or permission. 
 That may change if some little-noted protections from the Obama administration are strictly enforced. The federal stimulus law enacted in February prohibits in most cases the sale of personal health information, with a few exceptions for research and public health measures like tracking flu epidemics. It also tightens rules for telling patients when hackers or health care workers have stolen their Social Security numbers or medical information, as happened to Britney Spears, Maria Shriver and Farrah Fawcett before she died in June.
 ''The new rules will plug some gaping holes in our federal health privacy laws,'' said Deven McGraw, a health privacy expert at the nonprofit Center for Democracy and Technology in Washington. ''For the first time, pharmacy benefit managers that handle most prescriptions and banks and contractors that process millions of medical claims will be held accountable for complying with federal privacy and security rules.'' 
 The law won't shut down the medical data mining industry, but there will be more restrictions on using private information without patients' consent and penalties for civil violations will be increased. Government agencies are still writing new regulations called for in the law.
 Ms. Krinsk was never able to find out who sold her information, but companies that have been accused in lawsuits of buying and selling personal medical data include drugstore chains like Walgreens and data-mining companies like IMS Health and Verispan. CVSCaremark, which handles prescriptions for corporate clients, has also been accused of violating patients' privacy. 
 These companies all say that names of patients are removed or encrypted before data is sold, typically to drug manufacturers. 
 But as Ms. Krinsk's case shows, there are leaks in the system.
 Before the changes, privacy regulations mainly applied to hospitals and doctors. Enforcement was weak, and there were lots of loopholes.
 Privacy experts cite research by Latanya Sweeney, director of the Data Privacy Lab at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, which shows that a computer-savvy snooper can easily match names, addresses, Social Security numbers and so on to ''re-identify'' information that had supposedly been rendered anonymous. 
 ''Our biggest concern is the complete lack of protection against re-identifying data that was supposed to be anonymous and secure,'' Ms. McGraw said. 
 TRACKING prescriptions has been a big business for decades. Data miners say their research is valuable because gathering and analyzing information from thousands of people helps identify trends and provides indications of potentially dangerous side effects of drugs. 
 ''Data stripped of patient identity is an important alternative in health research and managing quality of care,'' said Randy Frankel, an IMS vice president. As for the ability to put the names back on anonymous data, he said IMS has ''multiple encryptions and various ways of separating information to prevent a patient from being re-identified.''
 ''De-identified health information is our core business,'' he said.
 IMS Health reported operating revenue of $1.05 billion in the first half of 2009, down 10.6 percent from the period a year earlier. Mr. Frankel said he did not expect growing awareness of privacy issues to affect the business. 
 CVS Caremark says it is careful about patient data. ''In very limited circumstances, we exchange aggregated, de-identified data with third parties to assist the health care community in understanding patient use of prescription medications with the goal of achieving better health outcomes,'' said Carolyn Castel, a company spokeswoman. 
 Selling data to drug manufacturers is still allowed, if patients' names are removed. But the stimulus law tightens one of the biggest loopholes in the old privacy rules. Pharmacy companies like Walgreens have been able to accept payments from drug makers to mail advice and reminders to customers to take their medications, without obtaining permission. Under the new law, the subsidized marketing is still permitted but it can no longer promote drugs other than those the customer already buys. 
 The ban on marketing is even more strict in California, where Walgreens is fighting off a class-action lawsuit filed on behalf of customers who received the subsidized mailings before the state outlawed them in 2004. Michael Polzin, a Walgreens spokesman, defended the mailings as a cost-cutting measure. ''Patients who fail to properly take their medication cost the U.S. health care system $177 billion a year,'' when they fall sick and need treatment, he said. 
 The data mining industry, meanwhile, is challenging laws in New Hampshire, Maine and Vermont that ban collecting and selling prescription information to drug makers, which use it to decide which doctors to market to. 
 The companies in the case, IMS Health and Verispan, now part of the private company SDI Health, said the identities of patients were removed. ''At no time does SDI ever receive any identifiable patient information nor any means to identify any patient from the data we handle. All data is de-identified prior to transmission to SDI,'' said Andrew Kress, chief executive of SDI. 
 Privacy advocates and a judge in the case argued that de-identified information could easily spin out of control. ''This information quickly finds its way into other databases, including those of insurance carriers and pharmacy benefits managers,'' Judge Bruce M. Selya wrote in a federal appeals court decision upholding the New Hampshire law.
 IN another big change, the stimulus law provides $19 billion to push doctors toward installing electronic records systems. It is a milestone on the road toward President Obama's goal of digitizing all medical records within five years. But digitization creates the potential for more abuses by hackers, as well as blackmail and insurance fraud. 
 ''Privacy is under greater duress than ever before as medical records are switched from paper to electronic,'' said Pam Dixon, a consumer advocate and executive director of the World Privacy Forum near San Diego. 
 Administration officials say privacy guarantees are essential. ''We can't afford to go forward with our plans unless we have assured the American public that the privacy of their information is assured,'' said Dr. David Blumenthal, the Health and Human Services Department's national coordinator for health information technology. 
 Companies like Google, Microsoft and WebMD see a lucrative business opportunity in assembling and holding personal health records. Patients and their doctors would be able to consult the records wherever and whenever needed. But the companies themselves recognize that they have work to do to persuade consumers and physicians that records will be safe and protected. 
 Although as many as one in four adult Americans are currently offered an online personal health record, by a health plan or physician's office, most have not taken up the offer. 
 Google, Microsoft and WebMD all say they will not show advertising alongside a person's health records. But visitors to WebMD, Google Health and Microsoft's site, HealthVault, see ads for drugs for diseases like osteoporosis or acid reflux as they seek information on an array of ailments. 
 Technology experts say identities of viewers and their health interests are often captured at the moment they click on online ads for a drug. That provides the advertiser with a prospective customer to pursue online or by mail.
 ''Personal health records linked to advertising, even indirectly, put them in the hands of marketers and profilers,'' said Robert Gellman, an independent privacy consultant in Washington. 
 Microsoft and WebMD acknowledge that the privacy rules in the stimulus law apply to them. Google says the law's prohibitions do not apply to it, except for its duty to report any breaches of medical privacy. ''Google is bound by the privacy policy that people agree to when they sign up,'' said Christine Chen, a Google spokeswoman. 
 The new law also requires the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Health and Human Services to clarify the rules for privacy violations and gives all 50 states' attorneys general new authority to enforce the federal rules. 
 Some recent high-profile incidents reveal the extent of the problem. In Virginia, a state health agency notified 530,000 residents in June that their Social Security numbers were at risk after a hacker claimed to have invaded a state monitoring database in April and demanded $10 million ransom to return the stolen data. State officials said they were still investigating the breach. 
 Ms. Fawcett was plagued by lurid tabloid reports fueled with information from her cancer treatment records at the University of California, Los Angeles Medical Center. And in May, Kaiser Permanente paid a $250,000 fine to California after it reported that 21 unauthorized employees and two physicians had invaded the records of Nadya Suleman, the woman who gave birth to eight infants in a Kaiser hospital in January.
 Since 2003, more than 45,000 complaints have been filed at the civil rights office in the Department of Health and Human Services by people who said their medical privacy was violated. The office says it has taken enforcement actions on more than 8,900 cases in that period, covering millions of people. 
 A single case can involve thousands of patients. For example, CVS paid a $2.25 million settlement early this year after an Indianapolis television station found paper records with CVS customers' personal drug information had been tossed into Dumpsters. In the settlement agreement, CVS promised to protect patient information at all 6,300 CVS stores. 
 A survey sponsored by the Federal Trade Commission suggested that tens of thousands of patients each year had their records broken into by hackers and unauthorized employees of hospitals and other health industry companies. Keith B. Anderson, an economist at the F.T.C., estimated that the personal information of about 890,000 adults was misused between 2001 and 2006. Stolen identities and data were used to trick Medicare, Medicaid and other insurers into paying for bogus medical treatment and supplies, he said.
 Deborah Peel, a psychiatrist in Austin, Tex., who lobbies for privacy rights, said she predicts ''a looming battle between the data thieves and those that believe in constructing a digital universe with even stronger protections for the privacy of personal information than we have in the world of medical records on paper.'' 
 SOME people think that the stimulus law doesn't go far enough to protect patients' privacy. While it bans paying a pharmacist for marketing to patients, it does not bar the sale of personal drug information by one pharmacy to another, as happened to Randee Lonergan, 35, a school administrator who now lives in Florida. 
 She says that when a pharmacy closed in a Stop & Shop supermarket on Long Island, it sold her information to a nearby Target store. She was upset when her new pharmacist asked if she was still taking injections for a skin problem. ''They knew all about me and my family,'' she said. Adding to her chagrin, she saw a person she happened to know working at the pharmacy. A Target spokeswoman says the company complied with all privacy laws.
 Ms. Krinsk in San Diego, whose privacy was repeatedly violated for more than a decade, says she is willing to speak out if it draws attention to the problem. ''I'm a pretty tough person,'' she said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the use of consumers' health information referred incorrectly to Dr. Deborah Peel, a psychiatrist in Austin, Tex. While she is founder of the nonprofit advocacy group Patient Privacy Rights and promotes its efforts, she is not a paid lobbyist. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Randee Lonergan says a pharmacy sold her prescription history to a local Target without her knowledge. With Ms. Lonergan are her husband, Kevin, and their children Brittany, left, and Marissa, right, and their dog Jasmine.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU1)
 Marcy Campbell Krinsk, who tried fertility drugs but did not become pregnant, later received ads for baby products.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU5) CHART: Privacy Concerns: To protect the privacy of patients' medical records, the Department of Health and Human Services has taken an increasing number of enforcement actions requiring health plans, care providers, pharmacies and others to handle information more carefully.(Source: U.S. Department of Health & Human Services)(pg. BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHARMACIES (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); DATA MINING (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (86%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INFANT FORMULA (73%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); DATA SECURITY (73%); RETAIL COUPONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PATIENT CONSENT (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); LITIGATION (60%); EPIDEMICS (50%); INFLUENZA (50%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



216 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Living With a Constant Honey-Do List

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 BILLY ASHLEY, a middling pro baseball player turned stay-at-home dad, receives a verbal knife in the heart from his teenage daughter in the first episode of the reality show ''Househusbands of Hollywood.''
 Why can't Mr. Ashley fetch her fast food for lunch? ''I'll be busy,'' he says, urging her to fix her hair a tad faster. (They're late for school.) 
 She replies, ''Dad, you don't work.''
 ''Since when?'' he counters. 
 Her reply is cutting: ''Since ever.''
 So it goes for the beleaguered househusbands, five men who stay at home, reluctantly, while their high-powered wives (at least in the minds of the show's creators) pursue successful careers. Henpecked by spouses and children alike, the guys struggle to maintain a whisper of machismo amid dirty diapers, grocery lists, pet hair and similar indignities. As Mr. Ashley puts it, ''Not what I expected my life to turn out to be.''
 The fish-out-of-water program, which has its premiere next Saturday on the Fox Reality Channel, aims to draft off Bravo's ''Real Housewives'' franchise, which has turned into an unlikely cultural phenomenon. But if ''Real Housewives'' turns on voyeurism and cattiness, ''Househusbands'' wants to be humorous and topical.
 ''Our show couldn't be more timely,'' said Scooter Pietsch, an executive producer. ''It taps into something going on in society. Because of the recession a lot of men are finding themselves thrust into this same role.''
 Marilyn Wilson, another executive producer (and Mr. Pietsch's wife), dismissed any ''Real Housewives'' comparisons. ''I'd love to be a big success and have spinoffs -- 'Househusbands of Dallas' -- but ours is a different show,'' said Ms. Wilson, whose credits include ''Politically Incorrect.'' ''We wanted to be positive. We wanted to be funny.''
 (The couple's sense of humor was apparent in the location they selected for an interview: the bedroom of a hotel suite, where they answered questions while lying on a bed. A reporter sat in a chair.)
 Much of the on-screen comedy comes from Mr. Ashley, an outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers and Boston Red Sox in the 1990s, who is married to Lisa Ashley, a celebrity makeup artist. She has a line of beauty products, and Mr. Ashley helps sell it. ''Give it a mist spray afterward,'' he advises a client about a blush. ''It helps set.''
 Another cast member, Charlie Mattera, is a felon -- he served eight years in jail on various robbery charges -- who is married to a ''prominent psychologist.'' Viewers will have to take his word on that, since she does not appear on the show. Mr. Mattera said her employer nixed the idea, fearing that patients would learn too much about her private life.
 Mr. Mattera takes care of his infant son, whom he calls ''a mistake.'' At one point he deadpans to a passer-by who peeks into the baby carriage, ''This is what happens when you go to Cabo.'' He gets a vasectomy in a subsequent episode.
 One couple will be familiar to fans of 1980s sitcoms: Darryl M. Bell (''A Different World'') and Tempestt Bledsoe (''The Cosby Show''). The pair are not married and do not have children. But Ms. Bledsoe has a domineering streak, lecturing Mr. Bell about leftovers and forbidding him to buy a suit until she can come along.
 Rounding out the cast are Grant Reynolds, a former Marine and aspiring actor, and Danny Barclay, an aspiring actor. Jillian Reynolds is synergistically employed by the Fox affiliate in Los Angeles, where she co-hosts ''Good Day L.A.'' Fox Reality describes Katherine Barclay as a ''high-powered attorney.'' A check with the California Bar Association turned up no trace of her; a Fox publicist said Ms. Barclay practices under another name, which she would not provide, citing ''client sensitivities and upcoming trials.''
 Fox Reality Channel is pumped into about 50 million homes but has averaged just 76,000 total viewers in prime time so far this year, according to Nielsen Media Research, something that ''Househusbands'' is designed to change. The channel's programming mixes reality-show reruns with original offerings like ''American Idol Extra.'' 
 ''We're spreading it far and wide because it's an idea we believe in thoroughly,'' said David Lyle, the channel's president, noting that the show will be available on Hulu, video-on-demand services and iTunes.
 ''Househusbands'' overtly employs some of the reality genre's familiar tricks -- like the scripting of situations, if not dialogue. At the end of the first episode, for instance, the guys gather in Mr. Barclay's garage, or ''man cave,'' to kvetch about their controlling mates. Mr. Barclay's wife sends him an e-mail message with a daily to-do list, eliciting groans. ''Don't take it,'' Mr. Bell advises. 
 Mr. Barclay starts to fret about hosting the meeting, saying his wife didn't know about it. Just then, the garage door starts grinding open. Guess who?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among the reality-show househusbands, from left: Grant Reynolds, Charlie Mattera and Danny Barclay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARIN BAER/FOX REALITY CHANNEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); BASEBALL (89%); COSMETICS (83%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



217 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Russia Seeks to Improve Safety of Its Roads

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROTH

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
An oil truck and a bus collided in southern Russia on July 24, killing 21 people and leaving the vehicles so damaged that they were unrecognizable. Just three days earlier, eight people died in a bus accident in Siberia, apparently after the driver leaned over to pick up a bag of sunflower seeds that he had spilled. 
 A wave of horrific traffic accidents in Russia in recent weeks has prompted high-level meetings and vows from top officials to improve the safety of the country's roads, where the deaths per capita are several times higher than in most developed countries and are nearly double the figure in the United States.
 On Thursday, President Dmitri A. Medvedev took the unusual step of convening an automobile safety conference, saying that the death rates were unacceptable and demanded that officials develop proposals to lower them.
 ''The national economy lost $175 billion from traffic accidents over the past five years,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''That is comparable with overall health care expenditures of the same period.''
 Russia had 21 deaths in automobile accidents for every 100,000 inhabitants in 2008, and almost 30,000 Russians died in car accidents last year, according to government statistics.
 The United States has around 12 deaths for every 100,000 inhabitants per year, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reported in 2008, and Germany, a top performer in road safety in Europe, has six, according to 2007 figures from the European Commission. Several factors make Russia's roads dangerous. Highways are poorly maintained, and Russians often drive older cars that lack modern safety equipment. The traffic police are widely considered to be corrupt, and drivers who break the law can often escape punishment by paying a bribe on the spot, allowing them to stay on the road.
 Even so, Mr. Medvedev and other top officials have skirted the issue of police corruption, focusing instead on poor driving and a fatalistic culture of disregard for road safety. Mr. Medvedev last month even denounced what he referred to as ''the undisciplined, criminally careless behavior of our drivers.''
 The government has advanced several proposals in recent weeks to address the rise in accidents. The Interior Ministry has ordered all police officers to pass a driving exam within one month, reacting to several high-profile cases of pedestrians being killed by police vehicles.
 Other officials have called for increased penalties and fines for traffic violations, including making them federal offenses, as well as a requirement that truck and bus drivers take regular breaks. The government is also considering undertaking public education campaigns, like television advertisements, and mandating more training for young drivers.
 Yet some experts are skeptical, pointing out that until official corruption is reduced, efforts to tighten penalties and enforcement will amount to little.
 ''I have not seen any appropriate action thus far,'' said Mikhail Y. Blinkin, director of the Scientific Research Institute of Transport and Road Engineering in Moscow. ''Every day 100 people die, that's the tragedy. And all this talk from officials isn't connected with whether the situation is getting better or worse. It's simply terrible every year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); CORRUPTION (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); BRIBERY (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



218 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: The Massachusetts Model

 BODY:
Massachusetts's experiment in near universal health care coverage has become a favorite whipping boy for opponents of health care reform. They claim the program is a fiscal disaster and that the whole country will be plunged into a similar disaster if President Obama and Congress's Democratic leaders have their way.
 That is an egregious misreading of what is happening in Massachusetts. The state's experience so far suggests that it is more than possible to insure almost all citizens and stay within planned budgets -- although it will take great creativity and political will to hold down rising costs so that the program is sustainable. 
 Three years after the program began, 97 percent of Massachusetts residents have health insurance -- by far the highest rate in the nation. That has been achieved without huge increases in state spending. 
 The Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a non-partisan research group, recently concluded that the cost of achieving near universal coverage ''has been relatively modest and well within early projections of how much the state would have to spend to implement reform.'' That is heartening news given that the major features of the Massachusetts reforms are similar to those under consideration in Washington. 
 Massachusetts requires everyone to take out health insurance or pay a tax penalty (unless they are deemed unable to afford coverage). It requires employers to offer coverage or pay a modest fee. It has expanded Medicaid to cover more of the poor and provides subsidies to help other low- and moderate-income residents buy insurance. And it has established an exchange where people not covered at work can choose from policies offered by private insurers who compete for their business.
 All told, this program has raised state and federal health care spending in Massachusetts from $1 billion a year in fiscal 2006 to a projected $1.7 billion for fiscal year 2010 -- with the federal and state governments each paying half of the added costs, or about $350 million. Massachusetts's overall budget for 2010 is $27 billion.
 A remarkable and encouraging development is that employers, who faced only a modest penalty if they dropped or failed to provide coverage, have chosen instead to expand coverage, in part because their workers were clamoring for group coverage. Indeed, employers and their workers have made a greater contribution to expanding coverage than the state has. 
 When the Legislature recently imposed cuts that forced the program to reduce benefits for thousands of legal immigrants, critics were quick to charge that the program was unraveling. But as state tax revenues have dropped during the recession, virtually all state programs have had to accept cuts. The demand for subsidized care has also risen as people have lost jobs. 
 There have been growing pains and glitches. The initially generous insurance benefits had to be scaled back to keep costs manageable. Cigarette taxes had to be raised to help pay for the reform. The number of people reporting problems paying medical bills and gaining access to care, after falling sharply, has begun to rise again. Tens of thousands of people who make too much to qualify for subsidies have to be exempted from the mandate each year on the grounds that they cannot afford to buy insurance. People just above the exemption level who lack employer coverage often face what they consider very high premiums. 
 Such problems are a warning perhaps that subsidies need to be extended higher up the income range. Massachusetts gives subsidies to families of four earning $66,000 a year, while pending Congressional bills would provide subsidies for those earning up to $88,000. That could mean added strain on government budgets. 
 What Massachusetts has not yet figured out is how to slow the relentless rise in medical costs and private insurance premiums, although premiums within the exchange have been held to 5 percent annual increases. The state's political leaders decided to expand coverage first, while postponing the hard decisions about cutting costs until lots of people, businesses and institutions had a stake in the success of the enterprise. 
 Now the state seems poised to tackle costs -- with an approach that is far more ambitious than anything currently being contemplated on Capitol Hill. 
 A special commission has just recommended that the state try, within five years, to move its entire health care system away from reliance on fee-for-service medicine, in which doctors are paid more for each additional test or procedure they provide. 
 In its place, the commission wants a system in which groups of doctors and hospitals would receive fixed sums to deliver whatever care a patient needed over the course of a year. The hope is that doctors would be motivated to deliver only the most appropriate care, not needless and excessively costly care, with safeguards to ensure that they do not skimp on quality.
 In Washington, as Congress and the administration look for ways to slow the rate of increase in health care costs, they are focusing on a range of possibilities and planning pilot projects to test them. That seems to be a more judicious approach given uncertainties as to what will work. Whatever Massachusetts chooses, Congress should keep a close eye. And the public should demand an honest assessment, from critics and supporters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INSURANCE (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



219 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: You Say Tomato, I Say Agricultural Disaster

BYLINE: By DAN BARBER. 
Dan Barber is the chef and co-owner of Blue Hill and Blue Hill at Stone Barns.

DATELINE: Tarrytown, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 IF the hardship of growing vegetables and fruits in the Northeast has made anything clear, it's that the list of what can go wrong in the field is a very long one.
 We wait all year for warmer weather and longer days. Once we get them, it seems new problems for farmers rise to the surface every week: overnight temperatures plunging close to freezing, early disease, aphid attacks. Another day, another problem.
 The latest trouble is the explosion of late blight, a plant disease that attacks potatoes and tomatoes. Late blight appears innocent enough at first -- a few brown spots here, some lesions there -- but it spreads fast. Although the fungus isn't harmful to humans, it has devastating effects on tomatoes and potatoes grown outdoors. Plants that appear relatively healthy one day, with abundant fruit and vibrant stems, can turn toxic within a few days. (See the Irish potato famine, caused by a strain of the fungus.)
 Most farmers in the Northeast, accustomed to variable conditions, have come to expect it in some form or another. Like a sunburn or a mosquito bite, you'll probably be hit by late blight sooner or later, and while there are steps farmers can take to minimize its damage and even avoid it completely, the disease is almost always present, if not active. 
 But this year is turning out to be different -- quite different, according to farmers and plant scientists. For one thing, the disease appeared much earlier than usual. Late blight usually comes, well, late in the growing season, as fungal spores spread from plant to plant. So its early arrival caught just about everyone off guard.
 And then there's the perniciousness of the 2009 blight. The pace of the disease (it covered the Northeast in just a few days) and its strength (topical copper sprays, a convenient organic preventive, have been much less effective than in past years) have shocked even hardened Hudson Valley farmers. 
 Jack Algiere, head vegetable farmer at the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture (where I have a restaurant that purchases from the farm), lost more than half his field tomatoes in three days. Other organic farmers were forced to make a brutal choice: spray their tomato plants with fungicides, and lose organic certification, or watch the crop disappear. Even for farmers who routinely spray, or who reluctantly spray precautionary amounts, this year's blight lowered yields. (Fungicides work only to suppress the disease, not cure it.) As one plant pathologist told me, ''Farmers are out there praying and spraying.''
 Of course, farmers aren't the only ones affected. If you love eating flavorful organic field tomatoes, good luck -- they'll be as rare this summer as a week without rain. And those that survive will cost you; we're already seeing price increases of 20 percent over last year.
 So what's going on here? Plant physiologists use the term ''disease triangle'' to describe the conditions necessary for a disease outbreak. You need the pathogen to be present (that's the late blight), you need a host (in this case tomatoes and potatoes) and you need a favorable environment for the disease -- for late blight that's lots of rain, moderate temperatures and high humidity.
 Does that last bit sound familiar? It has been the weather report for the Northeast this summer, especially in June. Where we saw precipitation fit for Noah's Ark, late blight found something akin to a four-star hotel. Those soggy fields and backyard vegetable plots? Inviting, and all too easy to check into. 
 But weather alone doesn't explain the early severity of the disease this year. We've had wet, cool summers in the past, but it's never been this bad. Instead we have to look at two other factors: the origin of the tomato plants many of us cultivate, and the renewed interest in gardening. 
 According to plant pathologists, this killer round of blight began with a widespread infiltration of the disease in tomato starter plants. Large retailers like Home Depot, Kmart, Lowe's and Wal-Mart bought starter plants from industrial breeding operations in the South and distributed them throughout the Northeast. (Fungal spores, which can travel up to 40 miles, may also have been dispersed in transit.) Once those infected starter plants arrived at the stores, they were purchased and planted, transferring their pathogens like tiny Trojan horses into backyard and community gardens. Perhaps this is why the Northeast was hit so viciously: instead of being spread through large farms, the blight sneaked through lots of little gardens, enabling it to escape the attention of the people who track plant diseases. 
 It's important to note, too, that this year there have been many more hosts than in the past as more and more Americans have taken to gardening. Credit the recession or Michelle Obama or both, but there's been an increased awareness of the benefits of growing your own food. According to the National Gardening Association, 43 million households planned a backyard garden or put a stake in a share of a community garden in 2009, up from 36 million in 2008. That's quite a few home gardeners who -- given the popularity of the humble tomato -- probably planted a starter or two this summer.
 Here's the unhappy twist: the explosion of home gardeners -- the very people most conscious of buying local food and opting out of the conventional food chain -- has paradoxically set the stage for the worst local tomato harvest in memory. 
 So what do we do?
 For starters, if you're planning a garden (and not growing from seed -- the preferable, if less convenient, choice), then buy starter plants from a local grower or nursery. A tomato plant that travels 2,000 miles is no different from a tomato that has traveled 2,000 miles to your plate. It's an effective way to help local growers, who rely on sales of these plants before the harvest arrives. It's also a way to protect agriculture. If late blight occurs in a small nursery it's relatively easy to recognize, as straightforward as being able to see the plant, recognize its symptoms and isolate it before it has a chance to spread. 
 This is less of an option on a farm that's spread out over dozens of acres, nor is it likely once the plant gets to a large retailer. A plant pathologist from Cornell told me she visited one such store and noticed the tomato plants were infected with blight. She immediately reported it to the manager, who said he couldn't remove the plants without approval from his superiors (which would take time). The pathologist returned a week later to find that the plants were still there.
 In fact, this late blight outbreak appears to be a classic example of what Charles Perrow, a sociologist, calls a ''tightly coupled'' accident. With tight coupling -- lots of tomatoes grown in one place, say, or distributed by one large retailer -- failures in one part of the system can quickly multiply. The damage cannot be as readily controlled. The recent spike in food-borne illnesses is another example of the problems associated with an overly consolidated food chain. E. coli's been around for a long time; what's new is how quickly and widely it spreads when there are only a few big meat producers. 
 There's another lesson here for the home gardener. When you start a garden, no matter how small, you become part of an agricultural network that binds you to other farmers and gardeners. Airborne late blight spores are a perfect illustration of agriculture's web-like connections. The tomato plant on the windowsill, the backyard garden and the industrial tomato farm are, to be a bit reductive about it, one very large farm. As we begin to grow more of our own food, we need to reacquaint ourselves with plant pathology and understand that what we grow, and how we grow it, affects everyone else. (Potato farmers in the Andes, for example, plant disease-prone varieties at high altitudes where the cold keeps pathogens in check -- to protect themselves and their neighbors. They don't get as big a harvest, but they decrease the risk of an epidemic.) 
 Government can help. For all the new growers out there, what's missing is not the inspiration, it's the expertise, the agricultural wisdom and technical knowledge passed on from generation to generation. Congress recognized the need for this kind of support almost 100 years ago when it passed the Smith-Lever Act, creating a network of cooperative extension services in partnership with land-grant universities. Agricultural extension agents were sent to farms to share the latest technological advances, introducing new varieties of vegetables and, yes, checking the fields for disease. 
 The cooperative extension service is still active, but budget cuts have left it ill equipped to deal with a new generation of farmers. The emphasis now is on reaching farmers through mass e-mail messages and Web-based dialogues, with less hands-on observation. That's like getting a doctor's check-up over the phone. More agents in the field during those critical weeks in June might well have resulted in swifter, more effective protection of the plants: early detection of any disease requires a number of trained eyes. 
 The food community has a role to play, too -- by taking another look at plant-breeding programs, another major fixture of our nation's land-grant universities, and their efforts to develop new varieties of fruits and vegetables. To many advocates of sustainability, science, when it's applied to agriculture, is considered suspect, a violation of the slow food aesthetic. It's a nostalgia I'm guilty of promoting as a chef when I celebrate only heirloom tomatoes on my menus. These venerable tomato varieties are indeed important to preserve, and they're often more flavorful than conventional varieties. But in our feverish pursuit of what's old, we can marginalize the development of what could be new.
 That includes the development of plants with natural resistance to blight and other diseases -- plants like the Mountain Magic tomato, an experimental variety from Cornell that the Stone Barns Center is testing in a field trial. So far there's been no evidence of disease in these plants, while more than 70 percent of the heirloom varieties of tomatoes have succumbed to the pathogen. 
 Mountain Magic is an example of regionalized breeding. For years, this kind of breeding has fallen by the wayside -- the result of a food movement wary of science and an industrialized food chain that eschews differentiation in favor of uniformity. (Why develop and sell 20 different tomato varieties for 20 different microclimates when you can simply sell one?) 
 Breeders in regions vulnerable to late blight should be encouraged to select for characteristics that are resistant to it, in the same way that they select for, say, lower water demands in the Southwest. While they're at it, breeders could be selecting for flavor and not for uniformity, shipping size and shelf life. The result will mean not just tastier tomatoes; it will translate into a food system with greater variety and better regional adaptation.
 Healthy, natural systems abhor uniformity -- just as a healthy society does. We need, then, to look to a system of food and agriculture that values and mimics natural diversity. The five-acre monoculture of tomato plants next door might be local, but it's really no different from the 200-acre one across the country: both have sacrificed the ecological insurance that comes with biodiversity. 
 What does the resilient farm of the future look like? I saw it the other day. The farmer was growing 30 or so different crops, with several varieties of the same vegetable. Some were heirloom varieties, many weren't. He showed me where he had pulled out his late blight-infected tomato plants and replaced them with beans and an extra crop of Brussels sprouts for the fall. He won't make the same profit as he would have from the tomato harvest, but he wasn't complaining, either. 
 Sometimes giving in to nature can be the biggest victory of all. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING IN KAREN BARBOUR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POTATO FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); MOLDS & FUNGI (88%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); BOTANY (78%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (76%); CROP DISEASE (76%); FAMINE (76%); RESTAURANTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



220 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Banker Seeks Beauty: Must Be Upbeat (Like the Economy)

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
THE recession is officially over, at least it is according to the impresarios behind a series of parties that are strictly for employees of two of New York's most high-profile industries: fashion and finance. 
 The invitation to the latest Fashion Meets Finance party -- an affair that shamelessly includes only women who work in fashion and men from Wall Street -- declared that the dark days are over -- not just for the economy, but in the dating market. ''We are here to announce the balance is restoring itself to the ecosystem of the New York dating community,'' the party organizers said on their cheeky Web site.
 The site allowed people to post R.S.V.P.'s, including job titles and salaries, and while many entries were clearly fictitious (''David'' who works in ''cougar trading''), there was nothing imaginary about the hundreds of well-dressed, well-groomed people who snaked down East 50th Street waiting to get into Nikki Beach in Midtown Manhattan on Thursday night. 
 In an effort to screen out pretenders, a woman at the door in tortoise-shell sunglasses inspected each guest's business card. 
 ''I have no business cards because we're in a recession and we're not allowed to order them,'' called out Lauren Paluzzi, 27, who said she is a manager of corporate finance for Liz Claiborne. She was waved in anyway.
 Inside, seated atop plush white cushions on wooden furniture, St. Tropez-style, guests gamely confirmed the stereotype that attractive women who work in fashion just want to find wealthy men in finance, and vice versa. 
 Lesya Yanush, 30, who said she was a former model (and made it past the door staff even though she now works in real estate), explained that she found bankers more stable, focused and trustworthy as boyfriends. 
 ''From my experience, I've dated lawyers and doctors and they're nice; I just prefer finance,'' Ms. Yanush said, before applying a fresh gloss of candy-apple-red lipstick in the ladies room. ''My girlfriends who are in long-term relationships with finance guys are very happy.'' 
 Alan Nieves, 24, a derivatives salesman for an investment bank, confirmed that when it comes to who attracts whom, ''There's a system in place and that's how it is,'' adding, ''It's the New York scene.''
 His friend Matt Dratch, 24, who defied the dominant charcoal gray suit trend of the evening by sporting a black polo, was not convinced that the recovering economy had prompted the event's strong turnout. ''I'm pretty sure most of the guys would still be here if the tagline was, 'Things are getting worse but you can still meet girls in fashion,' '' he said.
 The idea behind Fashion Meets Finance began in 2007 with Beth Newill, a merchandiser for Ann Taylor at the time, who found the garment district was a poor neighborhood in which to meet men. After speaking with a male friend who worked in finance and had expressed the same frustration about the absence of eligible women in the financial district, Ms. Newill organized regular happy hours for the two groups.
 Fast forward two and half years. Fashion Meets Finance puts on increasingly popular gatherings every several months, promoting them in e-mail blasts and with over-the-top marketing that has been easy bait for online mockery. 
 The text with the latest invitation, the first party since January, was typical: ''We fear that news of shrinking bonuses, banks closing and the Dow plummeting confused the gorgeous women of the city who understood that their shelf life is quick and fleeting like a senator's South American love affair. The uncertainty caused panic which caused irrational decisions -- there's going to be a two-year blip in the system where a hot fashion girl might commit to a pharmaceutical salesman.''
 The women were encouraged to hold on because the recession is over, and it would only be a matter of time before a boyfriend in finance enabled them to quit their jobs to be ''tennis moms.''
 Jeremy Abelson, 29, the founder of an online luxury newsletter called Pocket Change, who creates most of the Web site's copy, said, ''It's offensive but it's very realistic.'' 
 Some women at the party said that the recession never shook their confidence in the appeal of financial-industry mates.
 Kathleen Reardon, 25, a production coordinator for Jones Apparel Group, said she noticed that Wall Street men seemed more stressed as a result of the economy but she never found them less dateable. ''They never seemed less appealing,'' she said, sipping drinks with co-workers on the second floor of the club. ''That would be like men becoming unappealing.''
 As the night wore on, BlackBerrys were pulled out of pockets for the exchange of phone numbers, women began dancing on tables under the glow of colored lights, and at least one fashion gal and finance guy had clearly found a connection, making out on a couch near the entrance.
 A 25-year-old financial analyst who was double-fisting glasses of Johnnie Walker Black, said that identifying yourself as a banker (''dropping the banker bomb'' as he put it) had traditionally been a potent lure on the dating scene. ''As the recession got worse, the magic bullet lost some of its mojo,'' said the analyst, who asked not to be named to protect his employer, a private equity firm, from the publicity associated with the evening. ''All my paralegal friends were suddenly getting dates and my banker friends weren't.''
 His own social life, at least, did not suffer because of recession, he said, but he still didn't see the potential to meet someone special this night.
 ''Let's just say I'm not going to find my future ex-wife here,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHIC CIRCLES: A Fashion Meets Finance event at Nikki Beach in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



221 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: Is It Now a Crime to Be Poor?

BYLINE: By BARBARA EHRENREICH. 
Barbara Ehrenreich is the author, most recently, of ''This Land Is Their Land: Reports From a Divided Nation.''

 BODY:
IT'S too bad so many people are falling into poverty at a time when it's almost illegal to be poor. You won't be arrested for shopping in a Dollar Store, but if you are truly, deeply, in-the-streets poor, you're well advised not to engage in any of the biological necessities of life -- like sitting, sleeping, lying down or loitering. City officials boast that there is nothing discriminatory about the ordinances that afflict the destitute, most of which go back to the dawn of gentrification in the '80s and '90s. ''If you're lying on a sidewalk, whether you're homeless or a millionaire, you're in violation of the ordinance,'' a city attorney in St. Petersburg, Fla., said in June, echoing Anatole France's immortal observation that ''the law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the poor to sleep under bridges.'' 
 In defiance of all reason and compassion, the criminalization of poverty has actually been intensifying as the recession generates ever more poverty. So concludes a new study from the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, which found that the number of ordinances against the publicly poor has been rising since 2006, along with ticketing and arrests for more ''neutral'' infractions like jaywalking, littering or carrying an open container of alcohol. 
 The report lists America's 10 ''meanest'' cities -- the largest of which are Honolulu, Los Angeles and San Francisco -- but new contestants are springing up every day. The City Council in Grand Junction, Colo., has been considering a ban on begging, and at the end of June, Tempe, Ariz., carried out a four-day crackdown on the indigent. How do you know when someone is indigent? As a Las Vegas statute puts it, ''An indigent person is a person whom a reasonable ordinary person would believe to be entitled to apply for or receive'' public assistance.
 That could be me before the blow-drying and eyeliner, and it's definitely Al Szekely at any time of day. A grizzled 62-year-old, he inhabits a wheelchair and is often found on G Street in Washington -- the city that is ultimately responsible for the bullet he took in the spine in Fu Bai, Vietnam, in 1972. He had been enjoying the luxury of an indoor bed until last December, when the police swept through the shelter in the middle of the night looking for men with outstanding warrants. 
 It turned out that Mr. Szekely, who is an ordained minister and does not drink, do drugs or curse in front of ladies, did indeed have a warrant -- for not appearing in court to face a charge of ''criminal trespassing'' (for sleeping on a sidewalk in a Washington suburb). So he was dragged out of the shelter and put in jail. ''Can you imagine?'' asked Eric Sheptock, the homeless advocate (himself a shelter resident) who introduced me to Mr. Szekely. ''They arrested a homeless man in a shelter for being homeless.''
 The viciousness of the official animus toward the indigent can be breathtaking. A few years ago, a group called Food Not Bombs started handing out free vegan food to hungry people in public parks around the nation. A number of cities, led by Las Vegas, passed ordinances forbidding the sharing of food with the indigent in public places, and several members of the group were arrested. A federal judge just overturned the anti-sharing law in Orlando, Fla., but the city is appealing. And now Middletown, Conn., is cracking down on food sharing.
 If poverty tends to criminalize people, it is also true that criminalization inexorably impoverishes them. Scott Lovell, another homeless man I interviewed in Washington, earned his record by committing a significant crime -- by participating in the armed robbery of a steakhouse when he was 15. Although Mr. Lovell dresses and speaks more like a summer tourist from Ohio than a felon, his criminal record has made it extremely difficult for him to find a job. 
 For Al Szekely, the arrest for trespassing meant a further descent down the circles of hell. While in jail, he lost his slot in the shelter and now sleeps outside the Verizon Center sports arena, where the big problem, in addition to the security guards, is mosquitoes. His stick-thin arms are covered with pink crusty sores, which he treats with a regimen of frantic scratching.
 For the not-yet-homeless, there are two main paths to criminalization -- one involving debt, and the other skin color. Anyone of any color or pre-recession financial status can fall into debt, and although we pride ourselves on the abolition of debtors' prison, in at least one state, Texas, people who can't afford to pay their traffic fines may be made to ''sit out their tickets'' in jail. 
 Often the path to legal trouble begins when one of your creditors has a court issue a summons for you, which you fail to honor for one reason or another. (Maybe your address has changed or you never received it.) Now you're in contempt of court. Or suppose you miss a payment and, before you realize it, your car insurance lapses; then you're stopped for something like a broken headlight. Depending on the state, you may have your car impounded or face a steep fine -- again, exposing you to a possible summons. ''There's just no end to it once the cycle starts,'' said Robert Solomon of Yale Law School. ''It just keeps accelerating.''
 By far the most reliable way to be criminalized by poverty is to have the wrong-color skin. Indignation runs high when a celebrity professor encounters racial profiling, but for decades whole communities have been effectively ''profiled'' for the suspicious combination of being both dark-skinned and poor, thanks to the ''broken windows'' or ''zero tolerance'' theory of policing popularized by Rudy Giuliani, when he was mayor of New York City, and his police chief William Bratton.
 Flick a cigarette in a heavily patrolled community of color and you're littering; wear the wrong color T-shirt and you're displaying gang allegiance. Just strolling around in a dodgy neighborhood can mark you as a potential suspect, according to ''Let's Get Free: A Hip-Hop Theory of Justice,'' an eye-opening new book by Paul Butler, a former federal prosecutor in Washington. If you seem at all evasive, which I suppose is like looking ''overly anxious'' in an airport, Mr. Butler writes, the police ''can force you to stop just to investigate why you don't want to talk to them.'' And don't get grumpy about it or you could be ''resisting arrest.''
 There's no minimum age for being sucked into what the Children's Defense Fund calls ''the cradle-to-prison pipeline.'' In New York City, a teenager caught in public housing without an ID -- say, while visiting a friend or relative -- can be charged with criminal trespassing and wind up in juvenile detention, Mishi Faruqee, the director of youth justice programs for the Children's Defense Fund of New York, told me. In just the past few months, a growing number of cities have taken to ticketing and sometimes handcuffing teenagers found on the streets during school hours. 
 In Los Angeles, the fine for truancy is $250; in Dallas, it can be as much as $500 -- crushing amounts for people living near the poverty level. According to the Los Angeles Bus Riders Union, an advocacy group, 12,000 students were ticketed for truancy in 2008.
 Why does the Bus Riders Union care? Because it estimates that 80 percent of the ''truants,'' especially those who are black or Latino, are merely late for school, thanks to the way that over-filled buses whiz by them without stopping. I met people in Los Angeles who told me they keep their children home if there's the slightest chance of their being late. It's an ingenious anti-truancy policy that discourages parents from sending their youngsters to school.
 The pattern is to curtail financing for services that might help the poor while ramping up law enforcement: starve school and public transportation budgets, then make truancy illegal. Shut down public housing, then make it a crime to be homeless. Be sure to harass street vendors when there are few other opportunities for employment. The experience of the poor, and especially poor minorities, comes to resemble that of a rat in a cage scrambling to avoid erratically administered electric shocks. 
 And if you should make the mistake of trying to escape via a brief marijuana-induced high, it's ''gotcha'' all over again, because that of course is illegal too. One result is our staggering level of incarceration, the highest in the world. Today the same number of Americans -- 2.3 million -- reside in prison as in public housing. 
 Meanwhile, the public housing that remains has become ever more prisonlike, with residents subjected to drug testing and random police sweeps. The safety net, or what's left of it, has been transformed into a dragnet.
 Some of the community organizers I've talked to around the country think they know why ''zero tolerance'' policing has ratcheted up since the recession began. Leonardo Vilchis of the Union de Vecinos, a community organization in Los Angeles, suspects that ''poor people have become a source of revenue'' for recession-starved cities, and that the police can always find a violation leading to a fine. If so, this is a singularly demented fund-raising strategy. At a Congressional hearing in June, the president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers testified about the pervasive ''overcriminalization of crimes that are not a risk to public safety,'' like sleeping in a cardboard box or jumping turnstiles, which leads to expensively clogged courts and prisons.
 A Pew Center study released in March found states spending a record $51.7 billion on corrections, an amount that the center judged, with an excess of moderation, to be ''too much.''
 But will it be enough -- the collision of rising prison populations that we can't afford and the criminalization of poverty -- to force us to break the mad cycle of poverty and punishment? With the number of people in poverty increasing (some estimates suggest it's up to 45 million to 50 million, from 37 million in 2007) several states are beginning to ease up on the criminalization of poverty -- for example, by sending drug offenders to treatment rather than jail, shortening probation and reducing the number of people locked up for technical violations like missed court appointments. But others are tightening the screws: not only increasing the number of ''crimes'' but also charging prisoners for their room and board -- assuring that they'll be released with potentially criminalizing levels of debt.
 Maybe we can't afford the measures that would begin to alleviate America's growing poverty -- affordable housing, good schools, reliable public transportation and so forth. I would argue otherwise, but for now I'd be content with a consensus that, if we can't afford to truly help the poor, neither can we afford to go on tormenting them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); ORDINANCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LAWYERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LAW CENTER ON HOMELESSNESS & POVERTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



222 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER RITUALS AT THE TRACK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Preparing the Ponies for a Day at Saratoga

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The racehorse Zimmer, an energetic 3-year-old, was taking his morning warm-up in the damp dirt of the Saratoga Race Course. It was 6 a.m., and the mist had pooled like spilled milk over the infield. You -- if you were bright -- were still in bed.
 His trainer, H. Graham Motion, had saddled up a pony and was trotting through the backstretch, which, in that weather, gave the impression of a silver-toned daguerreotype from the course's opening in 1863. Some early-rising moneymen had gathered at the rail and were bragging about their horses over cups of dollar coffee. Two grooms were scrubbing down a colt, and the bucket they dumped atop its haunches turned to steam. 
 ''We're only going out to stretch his legs,'' said Mr. Motion, an imperturbable Englishman in a thick protective cap. Zimmer would be running on the grass that afternoon, and would take second in the crowded second race. ''He gets a little nervous on a race day -- much, I guess, like many athletes do.'' 
 For the spectating set, the meet at Saratoga (held each summer from the end of July through Labor Day) is a chance to watch -- and bet on -- the best American horseflesh to be found outside Kentucky. But for inside men like Mr. Motion, it is equal parts vacation and work, a six-week stint of testing new talent in the hills outside Albany. 
 ''Everyone wants to win at Saratoga,'' said Mr. Motion, 45, as he led his pony past his stable, No. 30, where pink-and-white geraniums were hanging from the eaves. ''You're out of the city and, as you see, it's absolutely beautiful. It's one of the best -- maybe the best -- boutique meets of the year.''
 The racing game, like boxing (or Parliament in Mr. Motion's homeland), is an artifact of culture and is steeped in rich tradition -- none more quintessential than the daily round of training that is known as the morning works. 
 It begins in earnest after sunrise, when Saratoga's backstretch has the feel of a summer camp before wake-up: The air is dense and humid, and everyone moves slowly, saddling the racers in the stables -- sagging wooden structures that smell almost concussively of manure and hay. The track gets crowded early, with the gallopers running clockwise, chugging along the inside of the oval. The slower horses canter gently in the opposite direction, keeping toward the whitewashed outer rail. 
 Mr. Motion, who describes himself as a ''fairly conservative'' trainer, does not like to overtax his horses on race day. His regimen is as orderly as a stopwatch: His riders let their mounts wander for a restful quarter-hour on the oval as he ambles near them on his pony, quietly observing in their wake. Then they return to the barn for breakfast (hay) and a soothing morning bath.
 At 9 a.m. or so, the track is cleared for the ''harrow break'' -- the equestrian equivalent of a Zamboni makes a gentle circuit of the racecourse, resurfacing and shaping up its dirt. That's when Mr. Motion leaves the track and typically takes his breakfast (scrambled eggs and a bagel) and conducts a few hours of paperwork and business on the phone. 
 Born in Cambridge, England, he is a second-generation horseman who often made the trip to Saratoga as a child. His father, Michael, was a bloodstock agent advising buyers on selecting thoroughbreds with an auction house called Tattersalls, which for more than three centuries has catered to the trade. His mother, Jo, was a jockey and a trainer in England and once took care of the 1951 Grand National winner, Nickel Coin.
 These days, Mr. Motion brings his wife, Anita, and their children, Jane and Marcus, to Saratoga each summer -- they own a house in town -- driving up from his base of operations at Herringswell Stables near the Maryland-Pennsylvania border. Jane, a freckled 12-year-old, tends to spend her mornings delivering The Saratoga Special, a local racing-world tabloid, to owners and her father's fellow trainers. Her afternoons are often passed in the company of children of famous jockeys -- John Velazquez's, for example -- watching races. 
 ''There's a very big social thing at Saratoga,'' Mr. Motion said. ''Parties, concerts, movies and the like. Everybody cares about the horses -- in fact, they care enormously. But the family isn't lost.''
 Nor, it seems, is the business aspect of the sport, which has taken quite a beating in the lingering recession. Purses have come down as betting has dropped in recent years. (Across the industry, last year's handle decreased by almost 17 percent compared with the previous year, although the first week's on-track total at Saratoga was up by 5 percent.) This year, Mr. Motion said, yearling prices have decreased at auction by as much as 40 percent.
 Nonetheless, wealthy owners remain a potent presence, leaning on the rail during morning works or gathered at the Morning Line, an inelegant cantina on the backstretch, where the conversation tends to revolve around the gossipy items inside The Saratoga Special.
 ''You just can't beat it as a way to spend a weekend during summer,'' said Jay Sloan, a financier from northern Virginia, who came for opening week even though the two horses Mr. Motion trains on his behalf remained home in Maryland. ''It's one of the most select and prestigious horse meets in the country. Every day here is, just -- well, it's just splendid.'' 
 And so exquisite, sensually speaking, that it often seems as if the Saratoga track -- and its backstretch, in particular, where morning works are held -- was designed for the sole purpose of delighting the eye. Horses walk through trapezoids of sunlight; khaki hay bales squat in empty barns. When the fog is up and especially thick, the trees are not like trees, but dreams of trees.
 ''For us, to spend a month in Saratoga, it's work, of course, but it's also quite a privilege and a pleasure,'' Mr. Motion said. ''You wouldn't do it, unless you absolutely loved it. It's a business, but it's also pastime. 
 ''And, of course, it's a passion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STABLE ENVIRONMENT: Jane Motion, 12, above, with her father, H. Graham Motion, a trainer, on the backstretch of the Saratoga Race Course upstate. In the morning works, as they are called, the horses are scrubbed down. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (90%); US LABOR DAY (66%); CONSERVATISM (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



223 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5927 words

HEADLINE: What's a Big City Without a Newspaper

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for the magazine. His most recent book is ''Warrior Girls,'' about the injury epidemic in girls' sports.

 BODY:
Corrections Appended
 On a recent trip into Philadelphia, after I exited the Interstate and coasted to a stop at the first traffic light, a man walked up to my car. He wore a black apron with a change pouch and held aloft a copy of The Philadelphia Daily News, the city's tart, irreverent tabloid. It gave me a warm feeling. Of course it did! I'm a newspaper guy. I worked as a reporter for The Daily News in the 1980s, and later for what we called ''big sister,'' the sober, broadsheet Philadelphia Inquirer. Even in better times, I would have been happy to see the product being hawked, but these days any small sign of life in the newspaper industry, even just the sight of someone reading a paper, feels positively uplifting. I handed over 75 cents for my Daily News, then drove on toward the center of the city -- and U.S. Bankruptcy Court, where a hearing was soon to begin, part of an ongoing process that will determine the fate of the city's newspapers. 
 Philadelphia is, of course, the city of Ben Franklin, a printer by trade who published The Pennsylvania Gazette, a newspaper, as well as Poor Richard's Almanac. It is where the Founding Fathers drafted the nation's most important documents -- the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. Word of the Declaration went out to the people on July 6, 1776, when it was published in the pages of The Pennsylvania Evening Post. By the early 20th century, the raucous, elbows-out era of American newspapering, there were 10 daily papers in the city. Now down to a besieged two, Philadelphia is a particularly good place to observe what appears to be big-city journalism's last stand, when many of America's metropolitan newspapers must quickly figure out how to become profitable again or face likely extinction.
 The stakes extend in many directions. Newspapers remain the primary source of news-gathering in America. And unlike so many Internet ''sites,'' they are firmly grounded in a geographical place. To read a newspaper is to know what town you're in. As a young reporter, I covered the trial of a well-known Philadelphia mobster, Harry (the Hunchback) Riccobene, who had been tried, convicted and incarcerated numerous times previously. I approached him during a break on the trial's first day and asked if he was nervous. He wasn't. ''What's the expression?'' he said to me. ''My record speaks for itself.'' I was pretty proud when that made it into print. I felt as if I'd shared a joke with a whole city, one that I knew appreciated that kind of wiseguy humor.
 No one would say that the history of journalism in America is one of unremitting excellence. Plenty of smaller communities, and some big cities, have never been blessed with anything better than lackluster newspapers. Certainly The Inquirer and The Daily News, when owned by Walter Annenberg, Philadelphia's postwar press baron, were undistinguished, in no small part because they were subject to Annenberg's political and personal pique. (He was said to have a blacklist of names that could not appear in print, an eclectic group that included Ralph Nader, Imogene Coca and Zsa Zsa Gabor, as well as the city's N.B.A. franchise, when it went uncovered for a season because Annenberg had a beef with its owner.)
 Annenberg's sale of The Inquirer and The Daily News in 1969 to the Knight newspaper chain (which later became Knight Ridder) had the effect of elevating the journalism. The Inquirer established a formidable reputation by winning 17 Pulitzer Prizes between 1975 and 1990, a total second only to that of The New York Times in that period. It is certainly less ambitious now than in its peak years, when it sent reporters to cover every big national story and maintained a half-dozen foreign bureaus, but it remains a force in its region and capable of the kind of ''watchdog'' journalism essential in cities like Philadelphia, which seem to breed corrupt politicians. The Daily News, with a reduced staff that covers fewer stories, remains aggressive, and its distinctive voice is taken seriously in the city's corridors of power.
 But the journalistic worthiness of the two newspapers has not protected them. And what was seen as a possible salvation in 2006, the purchase of the newspapers by Philadelphians with deep roots in the city (the first local investors since Annenberg), has, to this point, produced only a ghastly hemorrhage of money. The new owners put up $150 million of their own. Before filing for bankruptcy, they stopped payment on $400 million in debt. They have not, however, given up, and are locked in a standoff with lenders that Brian Tierney, the leader of the ownership group, has framed as a battle to preserve quality journalism in Philadelphia.
 Tierney is the central figure in Philadelphia's newspaper drama today -- an imperfect, improbable savior who in his previous role as the city's most prominent public-relations executive was hyperaggressive, and often bullying, in his interactions with reporters. No one would compare him with Franklin, except perhaps in his self-confidence. But he has taken to newspapering with a convert's devotion. In one of our conversations, he had to stop talking for a moment as tears came rolling down his cheeks. He was telling me about a speech he gave to an adult-education group, a routine appearance until the moderator asked everyone to join hands and pray for The Inquirer and The Daily News. ''It was unbelievable they would say a prayer for us,'' Tierney said as he reached under his glasses to dry his eyes. ''But they care. You know, it's not like we're some radio station thinking about switching from Top 40 to a salsa format. This is the people's work, a public trust.''
 Bankruptcy proceedings in which the parties do not amicably come together on terms for restructuring debt are fluid and unpredictable. The Philadelphia newspaper case has been particularly rancorous. A possibility exists, probably remote at this point, that the papers could just fold, making Philadelphia the winner of a dubious sweepstakes: first major American city to be left without a daily newspaper. Alberto Ibarguen, president of the Knight Foundation, which finances journalistic innovation, told me, ''It's going to happen somewhere.''
 What you notice first about Tierney is his stocky, strong-looking build and the restless physical energy he gives off, as if he's always an instant away from rushing the line and tackling a quarterback. Now 52, he grew up in Philadelphia's blue-collar suburbs but was educated at its elite schools, Episcopal Academy on the Main Line followed by the University of Pennsylvania. His father drove a cab before starting a window-glass company; his mother worked as a hatcheck attendant. Short on money to run the newspapers, Tierney sometimes seems as if he's trying to post Philly street cred as collateral. In a city where some old-timers still identify their neighborhoods by the Catholic parishes they live in, he makes a point of saying that after work on most nights he drives back to the suburbs on a route that takes him past ''Roman and Hallahan'' -- Roman Catholic and John W. Hallahan, the high schools his father and mother attended.
 He has taken his public relations mind-set to newspapering. He says he thinks the industry shares too much bad news about itself -- ''The audience for TV news is tanking, but do you ever hear them talk about that?'' -- and he was an early advocate for the idea that newspapers ought to begin charging for online content, a notion that has recently gained momentum. He can be a loose cannon. Testifying before Congress in April, he attempted a strained metaphor that involved a ''dance club'' charging high prices for beer but not paying its dancers, or what might be termed the content providers. ''Was that example in reference to a gentlemen's club?'' Representative John Conyers asked. ''That's the kind of club I meant, sir,'' he responded.
 In bankruptcy court that morning, during an interminable recess, the door in the back of the courtroom kept swinging open as Tierney blew in and out, moving between his lawyers, a group of Teamsters-affiliated newspaper truck drivers who came to support him and the print and radio reporters there to cover the hearing. At one point, he shared a confidence with reporters -- ''This is off the record, guys,'' he said -- then returned 20 minutes later and repeated the same thing, just about word for word, on the record.
 Like many East Coast and Rust Belt cities, Philadelphia has long had what is sometimes referred to as a challenging union environment. At the newspapers, the Teamsters, whom I remember as physically imposing, tended to call the shots for all the unions, but the passage of time and the onset of job insecurity has mellowed them. On the sidewalk outside the courtroom, a half-dozen drivers, graying and grandfatherly, held signs that said, ''Teamsters for Tierney.''
 Inside, Jim Phelan, a Daily News driver for 50 years, chatted with Bob Warner, who has had a long career as an investigative reporter at The Daily News. ''You remember that Dexter column?'' Phelan asked Warner, recalling a long-ago column by Pete Dexter, now a novelist, involving some high jinks with a lynx in a suitcase. Warner brought up an article by Bill Conlin about a hilariously profane tirade by the baseball manager Dallas Green. The two of them kept one-upping each other with their favorite stories. It felt like a wake, except that the loved one was still on life support.
 Tierney's ownership group, Philadelphia Media Holdings, purchased the Philadelphia newspapers, along with their joint Web site, Philly.com, for $515 million. The papers had basically been orphaned by the McClatchy chain, which, after buying Knight Ridder, announced plans to immediately unload the chain's least profitable papers, including the two in Philadelphia. Tierney told me that under his ownership, The Inquirer and The Daily News have been operating at a profit if you exclude the debt obligations. That sounds almost comical, like a homeowner saying his household finances are in terrific shape except for the mortgage he can't pay, but it holds out the promise that print journalism without excessive debt, in Philadelphia and elsewhere, may be a sustainable, if not an overly lucrative, business.
 Tierney and his partners want to invest additional money and emerge from bankruptcy in financial control of the newspapers -- in essence, they hope to buy them again, but this time for about $36 million in addition to the newspaper building and other considerations. Meanwhile, the papers' fortunes diminish with each passing month. The Daily News's circulation has fallen below 100,000, down from a peak in the early 1980s of nearly 300,000, and reporters in its cavernous newsroom work amid rows of empty desks. The Inquirer still employs more than 300 journalists, a substantial number in this era but about half of what it once had. In the six months ending in April, its daily circulation fell to 288,000 -- from 545,000 in 1983 and 352,000 as recently as 2007. Advertising revenue in the last year has dropped precipitously.
 Before their industry went into free fall, most Philadelphia journalists would have been apoplectic at the thought of working for Tierney. He was enmeshed in local politics, contributing money to Republican candidates and running campaigns. In the late 1990s, he successfully fought to keep an investigative article involving his best-known client, the local Catholic archdiocese, out of The Inquirer. The reporter on the story ended up filing a defamation suit against his own newspaper and settling out of court. It was a fiasco for the newspaper, and Tierney was in the middle of it. At Philadelphia Media Holdings, Tierney accepted a pay raise and a $350,000 bonus right before the bankruptcy filing -- and after employees agreed to give up their own paltry union raises.
 It is a sign of the times that most of those at the newspapers seem to accept and even embrace Tierney, preferring him to Knight Ridder in its last years of ownership; to the bankers they still might work for; and certainly to the prospect of the whole enterprise going belly up. It doesn't hurt that journalists are wired to enjoy a good show and that Tierney provides one. A couple of months ago, he staged a big barbecue in the papers' back lot and put out an advertising-packed special section to celebrate The Inquirer's 180th anniversary -- a less-obvious milestone than, say, a 175th or 200th anniversary. ''He's like our P. T. Barnum,'' Craig McCoy, one of The Inquirer's most respected reporters, told me.
 Tierney gave a tour to Annenberg's widow, Leonore, not long after taking over the newspapers. They sat in her husband's old office, now Tierney's, on North Broad Street, looking out over the city skyline. ''Walter had nicer furniture,'' she told him. He also had a more favorable business climate, operating long before Internet powerhouses like Craigslist began to gobble up revenue from classified ads.
 It was an article of faith among this generation of newspaper publishers that once they finally ''got'' the Web and built dynamic, advertising-friendly Web sites, they would prosper. But display advertising never migrated in hoped-for numbers to newspaper Web sites. Then the recession hit, and what had already been disappointing growth in online revenue stopped. For the 12-month period ending in June, the Philadelphia newspapers attracted $12.9 million in online revenue, down from $17.3 million in the same period a year previously.
 There is every reason to believe that the big, grab-bag metro daily that mixes its news in with comics, advice columns, obituaries and recipes, and undertakes an expensive manufacturing and delivery operation each day to put the product on the street, will pass into history. Among the problems faced by Tierney and other publishers is that many of the big thinkers on the periphery of their industry -- academics, Web entrepreneurs, former journalists with the wisdom of hindsight -- have already moved on. They're done with paper, ink, trucks, fuel, the whole era.
 This drumbeat, a relentless declaration that print is doomed, may be a problem in and of itself, making it easy to cast anyone who wants to save print as a Luddite. In a widely read essay earlier this year, Clay Shirky, a professor at N.Y.U. and an Internet consultant, suggested embracing the current moment of flux. ''That is what real revolutions are like,'' he wrote. ''The old stuff gets broken faster than the new stuff is put in its place. . . . When someone demands to know how we are going to replace newspapers, they are really demanding to be told that we are not living through a revolution. They are demanding to be told that old systems won't break before new systems are in place.''
 But parts of the system are actually not broken at all. Journalists still know how to gather news. And the Internet is a step forward in disseminating it. What's broken is the pipeline that sends money back to where the content is created. Most of it is available to readers online, free, including on newspapers' own Web sites, where it is not sufficiently supported by advertising.
 Newspaper Web sites do draw traffic (''eyeballs''). In April, when the beloved voice of the Philadelphia Phillies, Harry Kalas, collapsed in the broadcast booth and died just before an afternoon game, Philly.com quickly put up a comprehensive package, including a photo gallery, articles from the archives and a space for readers to write in their memories. The site got 3.8 million page views that day, nearly double its average. ''The Web is a big part of us being the dominant news source in the region,'' Tierney told me. ''We want it to be what people turn to for breaking news, or to celebrate a big event or to share their sorrow. And that's already happening.''
 He is under no illusion, though, that the Web site will come close any time soon to supporting the news-gathering of the 400 journalists he employs. For that, he has the print editions. (The joint Web site for The Inquirer and The Daily News accounts for just 6.5 percent of the company's advertising revenue, a little below the industry average. On it own, it would support a fraction of the current staff, maybe just a few dozen journalists.) Tierney has ordered a stop to the practice of putting exclusive Inquirer and Daily News articles up on Philly.com the night before their publication in print. This extends even to reviews. ''Are we going to get beat on a restaurant review?'' he said. ''I don't think so.''
 As soon as possible, he wants to begin charging for online content. As he told me this, he banged a bagel on a conference table, which sounded like a rock as it hit. ''You hear that?'' This bagel stinks, he said. ''It's got the same consistency inside and out, but if you went down to our cafeteria, it costs like $1.25. That's what people pay for stuff like this, so you mean to tell me I can't get them to pay that for online access to all the incredible stuff in The Inquirer and Daily News online? People who say that all this content wants to be free aren't paying talented people to create it.''
 In an industry currently marinating in self-doubt, Tierney has the appeal of clarity. He may not ultimately be right, but he's emphatic. Nothing, in his mind, is in place to match the still-powerful newspaper engines. Certainly not television and radio, whose news operations in Philadelphia, as in most cities, largely piggyback on the newspapers. And not blogs or the nascent foundation-supported journalism springing up in Philadelphia and elsewhere.
 ''We do the brawny work,'' Tierney said, sounding like the C.E.O. of some smokestack industry. ''The Web efforts, they add something. I congratulate them. Let a thousand flowers bloom. But if somebody thinks in any short term, or even medium term, that the answers are those things, they're kidding themselves. I know I sound like a heretic in that I won't come out and say, 'They're the future.' But they're not. The brawny work is what we're doing, and the brawny vehicle to carry it is the printed product.''
 I met with Alberto Ibarguen, the Knight Foundation president, at the Newseum in Washington, where he serves as chairman -- and where every day, at street level, a sampling of front pages from around the nation is displayed. I looked at them on my way in, and even some of the names sounded like relics from another era: The Elkhart Truth; The Santa Fe New Mexican; The Worcester Telegram and Gazette.
 Knight has endowed journalism professorships at universities around the nation, and the health of newspapers has long been a focus of its philanthropy. But as Ibarguen explained it, that has changed -- the foundation now seeks to preserve news and information, as distinct from saving newspapers. Knight has been a primary source of financing for MinnPost.com, in Minneapolis, and the Voice of San Diego, the two most advanced Web-only local news operations. It recently gave a grant to Spot.us, a nonprofit start-up that invites citizens to decide what investigative stories are worthy of its financial support -- a concept that seems almost designed to send a shiver up the spine of traditional journalists. ''Why should an editor have all the fun on deciding what writers are going to do?'' Ibarguen said. ''This invites journalists to pitch their stories on a Web site and have citizens decide what's valuable to them. . . . They might say, 'Here's $3,000 to do an investigation of the school superintendent.' ''
 Ibarguen and others involved in the invention of new-age journalism speak a language I've never heard in newsrooms. When I met with Jan Schaffer, director of the Knight-financed J-Lab at American University (and formerly the business editor at The Inquirer), she referred repeatedly to ''the media ecosystem.'' She said that ''news is a process, not a product'' and talked of ''big-J journalists,'' those at newspapers and other traditional outlets, and ''little-j journalists,'' citizens who create their own journalism. She said that one of her favorite new outlets is a Web site covering suburban Chappaqua, adding that it was ''run by three stay-at-home moms.''
 Many working journalists in the country regularly check a Web site known to most as ''Romenesko'' (after its creator, Jim Romenesko), which aggregates industry news and these days consists mainly of layoffs and other dire news. It can be excruciating to read. Just this year, The Rocky Mountain News perished. The Seattle Post-Intelligencer became a Web-only publication with a tiny staff. Detroit's daily newspapers are now delivered just three days a week. The Boston Globe, owned by the New York Times Company, and The San Francisco Chronicle, owned by Hearst, each went through near-death experiences as their owners won labor concessions after threatening to shutter the papers.
 Smaller newspapers, those with circulations under 50,000, are considered the healthiest part of the industry. ''They're not making 30 percent profit margins like they once did, but most of them are doing fine,'' John Morton, a newspaper analyst who has followed the industry for decades, told me. Most analysts predict that the papers with a national profile and brand -- The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal and USA Today -- will find a way to survive and stay in print. (It must be noted that few can say exactly how this will happen.)
 The most endangered segment is the one occupied by The Inquirer and other big metro papers that once dominated their regions, in some cases had national and even international reach but now struggle to fully staff bureaus in their state capitals. Among those currently in bankruptcy are the papers that are a part of the vast Tribune Company, including The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune, The Baltimore Sun, The Orlando Sentinel and The Hartford Courant. What the bankrupt and most at-risk papers have in common is that they recently changed hands and the new owners took on debt -- immense debt, in the case of the Tribune Company, which listed obligations of $13 billion when it filed for bankruptcy in 2008.
 The newspapers that emerge from bankruptcy should have a better chance at survival, but they'll be different. ''Bear in mind that there will be an economic recovery at some point,'' Morton said. ''But I suspect the big metros have lost a substantial amount of their advertising forever. When they return to profitability, it will be at a lower level, and the papers will be diminished in size and journalism.''
 Much of what will be sorted out in the coming years is the extent to which news will continue to be produced by professional journalists. In May, I attended a meeting of the Knight-sponsored ''Commission on the Information Needs of Communities in a Democracy,'' an impressive group led by the former United States solicitor general Ted Olson and Marissa Mayer, an executive at Google. Much of the conversation was abstract and airy, but even within that, a kind of clash in worldviews was apparent. One commission member, Danah Boyd, a blogger and fellow at Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, expressed her admiration for ''journalism by the public, for the public.'' She advocated for the need to have universal high-speed access for young people who blur the lines of art, research and news and ''like to mash it up and mix it up'' -- and spoke with passion about how on her way to the airport in Boston she learned more from her Twitter feeds about a traffic backup than from the local all-news radio.
 John Carroll, a fellow panelist and a lion of the traditional news business -- he edited The Baltimore Sun and The Los Angeles Times -- seemed to shift impatiently through much of the all-day meeting. When he spoke, he apologized for not seeming to be sufficiently forward-looking. He said the country needed ''a national base line of originally reported news . . . the kind of news produced by professional reporters.'' Just to be clear, he added, ''By reporters, I mean people who go out and dig stuff up.''
 In January, the Knight Foundation awarded a $200,000 grant to The Philadelphia Public School Notebook. Its editor, Paul Socolar, may be something like the journalist of the future. He is earnest, dedicated to a cause, foundation-financed and, to this point, read by a narrow audience. I accompanied him to a press briefing for the rollout of the Philadelphia school district's $3.2 billion budget. He quickly imbibed a thick handout filled with charts and long columns of numbers and jotted down questions, which seemed a bit sharper and harder to answer than those asked by the reporters from the city's two dailies.
 The Notebook actually started publishing in 1994, and Socolar, who had two children in the public schools, became its editor five years later. During his tenure, Socolar told me, The Public School Notebook refined its mission: its editors and contributors still consider themselves advocates for change, he said, ''but it became equally clear to us that we have to do reporting, have journalistic standards and publish real news stories.''
 It has largely achieved that. The Notebook, a five-times-a-year print publication, breaks stories and is notably well written. The grant was to improve its Web site and, as Socolar put it, start a ''two-way conversation'' with readers. But a broad audience and impact, two goals of traditional journalism, have been hard to attain. Socolar acknowledged that The Notebook's core readers are insiders -- principals, teachers, district administrators and highly engaged parents. ''There is a jolt you can get out of an Inquirer story that I know we don't,'' Socolar said.
 The new money helped energize The Notebook's Web site, but it will take time before it generates more traffic and hosts a dynamic dialogue. ''It's still pretty modest,'' Socolar said. ''About 400 visitors a day -- 500 or 600 on really good days. And some of those folks are stumbling upon it because they're looking for the movie 'The Notebook.' ''
 In Philadelphia, the Knight Foundation has also supported the Web site Plan Philly, a nonprofit affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania that reports on planning and zoning at a level of detail never approached by the city's newspapers, as well as the city's version of EveryBlock.org, a ''hyperlocal'' that provides microscopic, data-driven information on segments of the city -- home sales, crime, health-code violations at restaurants and so forth. A proliferation of blogs and Web sites cover the arts, sports and food scenes in Philadelphia. A Web site called the Media Mobilizing Project, also underwritten by the Knight Foundation, seeks out the stories of immigrants and other minorities, which newspapers, even at their best, rarely did a good job of telling.
 One of Tierney's first moves was to hire Bill Marimow, a two-time Pulitzer winner when he was an Inquirer reporter, as the paper's top editor. Marimow, who is 62, had moved on to Baltimore, where he edited The Sun, then to Washington to serve as managing editor for news at National Public Radio. His return to Philadelphia amounted to a doubling down on labor-intensive, expensive-to-produce, hard-news journalism. It's not at all clear there's a business plan in that, but if The Inquirer goes down, it will do so with guns blazing.
 In March, Vince Fumo, a longtime state senator from South Philly and power broker in the state capital, was convicted in federal court in a massive public corruption scheme. The main charge involved millions of dollars given to a nonprofit he controlled from donors who sought to remain hidden, including PECO Energy, a state-regulated electric utility that secretly contributed a whopping $17 million. It was Inquirer reporters who first uncovered the conspiracy and identified the sources of the money, and the federal prosecutor, in his closing argument to the jury, took the unusual step of crediting them. ''It only stopped for one reason,'' Robert Zauzmer, an assistant U.S. attorney, said. ''It stopped for the same reason that everything else stops in this case. The publicity starts in The Philadelphia Inquirer . . . and that was the end of the scheme.''
 The crisis in newspapers is sometimes framed as something that matters mainly to journalists, but it is of course more than that. My conversations in Philadelphia showed a concern far beyond the newsrooms. I asked Zauzmer if he had in mind the papers' imperiled status when he addressed the jury. ''I did, and I was happy to have the opportunity to do it,'' he said, adding that he would not have done so if there was not also a strategic reason for crediting The Inquirer. The publicity caused Fumo to try to cover his tracks, he said, and those actions figured into some of the criminal charges. (''The Inquirer will go absolutely BALLISTIC if they ever really find out,'' Fumo, urging associates to withhold information, wrote in one e-mail message that came out at trial.)
 Marimow called my attention to some recent investigative triumphs -- a story on a C.E.O. who stole a half-million dollars from his charter school, was charged criminally and had just pleaded guilty; another on a large number of city employees who failed to pay their property taxes. As we talked, he showed me letters and printed-out e-mail from readers responding to emotionally resonant stories. He called them ''the irrefutable evidence of the beauty, the importance and the significance of the newspaper.''
 One letter was in response to an article about a longtime supermarket employee who was fired after he forgot his reading glasses one day and took a pair from a shelf to do inventory. ''I want to thank you for your article on Bob Martucci,'' a reader wrote. ''Thank God for the press.'' Another letter came after an article on the funeral of a slain police officer who was buried with a sonogram of his unborn child. ''I sat in a park in midmorning with a Wawa coffee and the paper,'' it said. ''Within minutes I had tears slowly running down my cheeks.''
 With The Inquirer and The Daily News teetering, many in the city have hoped that the Pew Charitable Trusts would emerge as a white knight. Founded with money from the Sun Oil fortune, Pew is Philadelphia-based and prominent, nationally, in studying, supporting and in various ways participating in the media. Pew's managing director for information initiatives, Donald Kimelman, spent two decades at The Inquirer, including four years as its Moscow correspondent. He told me that the Pew did, indeed, look seriously at giving financial backing to a Web-only news operation in Philadelphia but decided against it for a reason that should catch the attention of anyone hoping that foundations are the future of muscular news-gathering: It did not want to give birth to a long-term money drain.
 The foundation commissioned a study three years ago, when the Philadelphia papers were passing out of Knight Ridder's control and some prospective buyers seemed likely to make drastic cuts. ''Everyone was thinking of the worst-case scenario,'' Kimelman said, ''and we had to ask ourselves, 'Is there a role for us to play?' ''
 The news site was to be seeded with nonprofit funds but with a goal that it could eventually subsist on advertising revenue. Kimelman concluded that the projections were too optimistic to support even the 30 or so journalists envisioned -- and that was before the market for online advertising tanked. ''We didn't want to be in it for two or three years,'' he said, ''and then instead of the for-profit publisher laying people off, we'd be the nonprofit doing layoffs.''
 The other reason the plan died was that Brian Tierney and his local partners -- the largest is Bruce Toll, a founder of the home builder Toll Brothers -- won the bidding for the newspapers. ''There was some thought that we should be the heroes,'' Kimelman said. ''But we were not going to compete with local ownership. When the Tierney group came in, they became the local heroes.''
 Tierney and his partners are still operating The Inquirer and The Daily News, but who ultimately owns them is to be determined in bankruptcy court. Some of the banks that initially lent money for the acquisition in 2006 have taken their losses and departed, selling the loans at deep discounts. The owner of the largest share of debt in the newspapers is Angelo, Gordon & Company, a New York firm specializing in ''distressed debt.''
 That firm is also a player in the Tribune Company bankruptcy; in the management of The Minneapolis Star Tribune, which is expected to emerge soon from bankruptcy; and in American Media Company, which publishes The National Enquirer and The Star. A banker at the firm, Bradley Pattelli, is involved in all those properties, making him a highly influential if little-known figure in American newspapers. (I talked to Pattelli twice on the telephone, but he would not speak on the record. At his request I e-mailed him questions, but he did not respond to them.)
 The reorganization plan Tierney files in bankruptcy court will offer lenders about $36 million -- raised from the initial group as well as some new investors -- along with the Inquirer Building, just north of Center City, and its surrounding real estate. The newspapers would either become tenants or move to another location. The lenders will follow with a proposal of their own. They are likely to place a higher financial value on the newspapers, although no one disputes that they are worth far less than the money owed.
 Angelo, Gordon, however, appears to want to play a significant role in owning and operating the papers. Tierney contends that the company would quickly close The Daily News and, over time, cut costs in such a way as to decimate The Inquirer. It's impossible to know. (And, depending on which way the economy turns, Tierney himself, who has already presided over substantial layoffs, could find that he has to make further cuts.)
 What is clear is that beyond the hardheaded, dollars-and-sense negotiations, Tierney is making an appeal based partly on emotion. He's the Philly guy protecting a local resource -- and the future of print journalism in a city with a history of, and a continuing need for, great newspapering. Like Marimow, he kept directing me to examples of recent articles, which he had spread out on the table. One was an investigative series on an arcane city agency discovered to be granting huge tax cuts to insiders.
 ''This isn't cheap to do,'' he said, holding up a newspaper with the big front-page headline, ''It's Who You Know.'' ''Think about the cost of it -- the writing, the editing, even the newsprint. But I'm proud of it. It's what we've got to keep doing. People feel that here. I think even our drivers feel like, We're not bringing in doughnuts. We're bringing in The Inquirer and Daily News.''
 Correction: August 09, 2009
 An article on Page 36 this weekend about the plight of daily newspapers in Philadelphia misspells the name of a company that once owned The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News. It is McClatchy, not McClatchey.
 Correction: August 09, 2009
 An article on Page 36 this weekend about the plight of daily newspapers in Philadelphia misspells the name of a company that once owned The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News. It is McClatchy, not McClatchey.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Page 36 this weekend about the plight of daily newspapers in Philadelphia misspells the name of a company that once owned The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News. It is McClatchy, not McClatchey.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (pg.MM37)
VILLAIN TO HERO?: Tierney used to spar with the papers he now champions. (pg.MM39)
LAST STAND?: A newspaper kiosk on Broad Street. (pg.MM40)
 SECOND EDITION: Marimow, a Pulitzer winner as a reporter, was brought back to edit The Inquirer. (pg.MM42) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE GILDEN/MAGNUM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (79%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (76%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); BOOK REVIEWS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



224 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Big, Yellow and Ripe for Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
ABOUT 2,000 students in Hartford will find themselves without a ride to school this fall as their school district tries to slash its fleet of 140 buses by half to save $3 million a year.
 On Long Island, nearly 1,000 fewer elementary students will be bused to Levittown schools daily, while 10 miles to the west in Sewanhaka, buses will no longer shuttle about 200 students home after sports practices and club meetings.
 And at Mount Olive High School in Flanders, N.J., 120 teenagers will have to walk farther to reach the closest bus stop, since nine bus routes have been eliminated and several others consolidated.
 School buses have traditionally rolled through storms, subzero temperatures and even spikes in gas prices, but this year, many across the New York region and elsewhere are being grounded by the recession. The National Association for Pupil Transportation, an industry group, estimated that daily bus ridership dropped 5 percent, to about 25 million, in 2008-9 -- the lowest level in more than a decade -- and will likely drop further in the next year. 
 ''Districts have been scaling back dramatically,'' said Michael J. Martin, the association's executive director. ''It's literally about money. Unfortunately, school transportation is usually high on the list to go on the chopping block first.''
 But while school officials say that it is better to cut bus service than classroom instruction, parents and education advocates counter that students cannot learn if they do not have a safe and reliable way to get to school every day. Many of these critics worried that fewer buses could lead to more absenteeism, which in turn could lower student achievement.
 ''What's going to happen come September, it's going to be chaos,'' said Milly Arciniegas, a mother of two who is president of the Hartford Parent Organization Council. ''There are going to be parents who think their kids are going to have a bus and they won't have one.'' 
 Ms. Arciniegas said she had received complaints from hundreds of parents. ''I'm angry because they know Hartford is not the safest place to live -- we all know that -- and they're going to have 8-year-olds walking almost a mile to get to and from school,'' she said.
 Busing has been a growing part of the American educational experience, at least since the 1920s, when rural schoolhouses were consolidated to create larger and better-equipped schools. It was critical to racial desegregation in the 1960s and '70s, and to suburban growth. 
 ''School buses have become icons of a 20th-century education,'' said Jonathan Zimmerman, an education professor at New York University and author of ''Small Wonder: The Little Red Schoolhouse in History and Memory'' (Yale, 2009). ''Unlike one-room schoolhouses, which served a single community, the buses brought students from different communities into a single large building and created a new educational model.''
 Most states generally require transportation to be provided for students who live far from their schools or along busy roads, and set aside money to cover at least some of the cost. But individual districts typically set their own mileage guidelines for busing and policies on what supplemental services -- often called courtesy busing -- will be provided at local taxpayers' expense. Many schools bus far more students than they are legally required to as a convenience for working parents, or because of safety concerns in areas with crime, heavy traffic or few sidewalks.
 But some school districts now say they can no longer support full-service busing as their budgets shrink. Hartford, with 22,000 students, expanded busing last year to 2,800 more students as part of a larger effort to promote ''choice schools'' rather than neighborhood schools. The expansion extended busing to middle and high school students, for instance, if they lived more than a mile away, compared with 1.5 and 2 miles, respectively, in the past. The added cost was $3 million. 
 As Hartford returns to the old mileage standard in September, district officials set up a hot line for families to check their children's busing status, and they plan to recruit parent volunteers to walk with students to school. In addition, the district will distribute free city bus passes to high school students who live more than 1.5 miles away from school, and beginning in October, fill any empty bus seats with walkers. 
 ''We just can't afford the shorter mileage any more,'' said Alexander T. Nardone, the district's chief operating officer, adding that ''part of the difficulty now is: how do you take something away from parents?''
 Parental opposition to busing cuts turned back similar ideas in at least three New York communities -- Irvington and Blind Brook in Westchester and Commack on Long Island. The Commack district, at the request of some residents, put a measure on the local ballot in June that would have saved $1.1 million by doubling the minimum distance for students to qualify for busing, cutting out 819 students in a district that buses 95 percent of its 7,700 students. But residents rejected the proposal by a ratio of three to one. 
 ''Although there would have been savings to taxpayers, it would not have been significant enough for that loss of service,'' said Laura A. Newman, Commack's assistant superintendent for business. ''Many families are two-income, and they rely on that service to get their children to and from school every day.''
 In other areas, school officials have experimented with fee-based busing. When the Sewanhaka district, for example, decided to eliminate 21 late-afternoon buses that cost $150,000 a year, officials offered to continue the service if families picked up the cost --as low as $2.25 per ride (no one has yet signed up). 
 In Mount Olive, officials decided to cut 9 of 80 buses after the district's $80.5 million budget was voted down last spring, forcing $551,000 in cuts. Larrie Reynolds, superintendent of the 5,000-student district, said that reducing the fleet would save $94,000, and changing start times at schools so that some buses can make longer runs, an additional $50,000.
 Dr. Reynolds said he would recommend that the bus routes be restored for 2010-11. In the meantime, the district has reorganized existing routes and consolidated stops so that only 10 students are left without transportation. Another 120 will have to walk an average of a quarter-mile to a bus stop instead of just stepping outside their door.
 ''The bus doesn't come to your house, you go to the bus stop,'' said Dr. Reynolds, who grew up riding school buses in Baltimore County, Md., in the 1970s. 
 ''It doesn't sound that bad to me because when I was a kid, I walked one and a half miles to the bus stop and then I got on the bus and rode for six or seven miles. I walked up the hill and down the hill and through snow and sleet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POTENTIAL SAVINGS: Hartford may sideline half its school bus fleet. (pg.MB1)
 VOICING CONCERNS: Children joined parents or waited outside during a briefing on school bus reductions in Hartford. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); SUBURBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



225 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''People know with me that what they see is what they get.''
 Lauren Luke, whose how-to videos on makeup application, broadcast on YouTube, have made her a force in the cosmetics industry. 
 ''It's almost like steroids and baseball.''
 Dr. Joseph S. Ross, an assistant professor of geriatrics at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, on medical journal ghostwriting about drugs that is financed by pharmaceutical companies.
 ''You don't know which articles are tainted and which aren't,'' he said. ''If you are a con artist, having more people out of work to deal with increases your odds of finding a victim.''
 Pam Dixon, executive director of the World Privacy Forum. More people are streaming onto the Web in search of jobs and running into costly scams.
 ''Cars are a lot like doughnuts.''
 Lewis Booth, Ford's chief financial officer, who said that ''the ones you want to buy are the fresh ones.''
 Detroit automakers are rushing to get new models into dealerships.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); COSMETICS (77%); TOILETRIES MFG (72%); STEROIDS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



226 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: When Skills Translate Well

 BODY:
I WAS born in Stockholm, moved to Paris when I was 1 1/2 and then moved to London when I was 10. I learned English in private school in England. I had no foundation in the language and had to figure it out pretty much on my own in school. As a result, I have an acute understanding of what immigrants in the United States go through.
 In 1993, I got an undergraduate degree in history at Bristol University in England. I was accepted at the College of Law at Guildford, but after working briefly for a law firm in the summer, I decided not to attend. I didn't agree with the idea of billing by the hour. 
 That year, I signed on to crew a sailboat that was crossing the Atlantic from the Canary Islands to St. Lucia. I spent three weeks at sea. There's something spiritual about being at sea and not seeing land for that long. 
 Then I joined Trafigura, a commodities trading firm, as a traffic administrator, booking ships and administering contracts. At 24, I was promoted to commodities merchant and flew around the world, buying and selling copper concentrate. I would meet with foreign officials to buy copper ore and sell it to smelters in other areas. I had to become an expert in evaluating and managing risk because the mines and smelters weren't always well capitalized. Often we had to prepay for production. 
 I traveled to remote areas, such as a mine in Mongolia. I'd put on a hard hat, hop into a huge truck and circle down into a massive open-pit mine. I enjoyed having the physical connection to what I was doing instead of being involved only with numbers on a screen.
 I was introduced to Rosetta Stone when I lived in China for two years. A high school friend who worked at the company sent me an early version of the Chinese program. 
 I left Trafigura in 2000 to enroll at Insead, the business school in France, for an M.B.A. When I graduated, my friend arranged an interview for me with Rosetta Stone. The founder had just passed away. I told the family I'd join the company if I could be C.E.O. They agreed, and I started in February 2003.
 I was 30. My friend, who was on the board, was adamant that I was the right person to lead the company because of my passion for language and my international business experience. 
 One of our early challenges was how to sell to language teachers in schools. At first, we were giving French teachers our course in French, but since they knew the language, few saw how the program worked. To overcome this hurdle, we had them try the Russian program and they understood immediately.
 This summer we launched a product that introduces the capability to converse with native speakers, live online. We're also expanding through partnerships with organizations such as Apple and Amazon.
 We took the company public last April. When talking to investors, I followed what I have always believed -- that the truth is good enough. People often feel they need to spin, but if you have a good company and stick to the truth, you gain credibility. Investors will feel your sincerity if you tell them your weaknesses as well as your strengths. 
 Companies considering going public in a downturn should look closely at their business before looking at the outside world. You can go public at the right time economically, when markets are paying top dollar, but if your company's not ready, it can be a disaster. 
 We had advisers who suggested the market was too volatile and the risk too great to go public when we planned. We decided to go ahead, and we feel we were right. 
 If you haven't done it, you can't imagine how strong the emotion is. It's like getting married or having kids. In the photo of us ringing the bell at the stock exchange, it appears as if everyone is smiling or laughing. But several of us were teary-eyed. We had worked so hard for so long to get to that point. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TOM ADAMS Chief executive, Rosetta Stone, Arlington, Va. AGE 37 FAVORITE VACATION CITY Rome NUMBER OF LANGUAGES HE SPEAKS FLUENTLY Three. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSETTA STONE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); COPPER INDUSTRY (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); SURFACE MINING (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); MINES & MINING (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); MONGOLIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); FRANCE (73%); SPAIN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



227 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Their Gamble, Everyone's Money

 BODY:
Many Americans are understandably furious about the colossal bonuses making a comeback at JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs while millions of people around the world are still suffering because of Wall Street's recklessness. 
 Despite that anger, the objective of government efforts to regulate compensation should not be to punish bankers or cap the money they make. Instead, they must focus on changing a perverse incentive system that too often rewards bankers for taking irresponsible bets -- bets we all pay for when they go disastrously wrong. 
 So far Congress has made little progress. A House bill approved in July offers shareholders a nonbinding vote on the pay of bank executives, which is nice. So is its requirement that directors on compensation committees be independent. But the House punted on the most needed reform. The bill merely instructed the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators to come up with new compensation rules within nine months. 
 The Senate is expected to consider executive compensation after the summer recess only as part of a broad package of regulatory reform that is already meeting stiff resistance from Wall Street. 
 If regulators are going to have to do what Congress won't, there are a several things they should remember. Pay structures should not be left up to banks' boards. Regulators must establish and enforce them. Any new rules on pay should serve the same purpose as regulating banks' capital levels or the kind of loans they can make: protecting the financial system and the economy. 
 Crafting specific rules to align bankers' remuneration with both their performance and the risks they take will not be simple to engineer.
 They might include claw-back provisions to recoup bonuses. They could require parceling pay over a period of years, to encourage bankers to make investments that would not tank the day after they were paid. They could require bankers to give up pay if the government had to come to the rescue.
 The rules that regulators set must be specific enough that bankers could not elude them by simply getting a good accountant and changing a few definitions. Yet they must be flexible enough that they could be adjusted by regulators if circumstances so demanded.
 Lucian Bebchuk and Holger Spamann, experts in securities law at Harvard Law School, suggested that bankers' pay could be linked to other prudential rules, like capital requirements. For instance, if bankers' pay was designed to rise when the value of the assets did but not to fall commensurately when the assets went sour, they might be tempted to take on more risk than they should. If regulators determined that was the case, they might require banks to set aside more capital, just as they must when they make risky loans.
 The point of the exercise is to instill caution among bankers' ranks. They must know they will share in the losses if that investment that looked so hot the day they made it ultimately costs the bank billions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LAWYERS (61%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



228 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Mara Gassmann, Neil Kornze

 BODY:
Mara Jolene Gassmann, a daughter of DeeDee Gassmann and Mike J. Gassmann of Peachtree City, Ga., was married at her parents' house Saturday evening to Neil Gregory Kornze, the son of Sue Malcolm of Fallon, Nev., and Larry Kornze of Middleton, Idaho. Christopher A. Wood, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated. 
 Ms. Gassmann, 29, is keeping her name. She is to begin her second year of law school at Georgetown University in September. She graduated from the University of Georgia.
 Mr. Kornze, 31, is a senior policy adviser on natural resources, on subjects like forestry and mining, to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. He graduated from Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash. He received a master's degree in international relations from the London School of Economics. He is also the stepson of Robin Lampson.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VAUGHN STERLING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (73%); WASHINGTON, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



229 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: A President's Ouster Highlights a Yawning Divide in Honduran Society

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 

 BODY:
One woman started a kind of kaffeeklatsch with her high-powered friends that grew into the driving force behind a movement that toppled the Honduran president. The other preferred to stay out of politics until the president's ouster compelled her to protest.
 Armida Villela de Lopez Contreras, a lawyer and former vice president, has become one of the most visible critics of the ousted Honduran president, Manuel Zelaya. And Hedme Castro is one of the thousands of teachers who have banded together to demand Mr. Zelaya's return.
 Between them is a yawning political and socioeconomic divide that still threatens the stability of what was once one of the United States' principal staging grounds in Latin America during the cold war. And what they have to say about how this country's political crisis began -- and about the sacrifices they are willing to make to defend their views -- leaves little hope that it will end any time soon.
 To Ms. Lopez Contreras, a prominent member of this country's small upper class, Mr. Zelaya was ousted because his blossoming leftist alliance with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela had become a threat to Honduran democracy. 
 She is a founding member of a coalition representing some of the most powerful business and political forces in the country. And she says the coalition members are willing to do, or spend, whatever it takes to keep their country afloat in the face of mounting economic pressure resulting from the rest of the world's condemnation of the coup.
 ''Zelaya was suffocating all other powers of government,'' Ms. Lopez Contreras said. ''Now that he's gone we are breathing the air of freedom. This is a conquest we are not willing to surrender.''
 To Ms. Castro, who lives a solidly working-class existence, Mr. Zelaya was ousted because people like Ms. Lopez Contreras felt threatened by his efforts to lift up the poor -- most notably with a 60 percent increase in the minimum wage to about $9.60 a day from about $6 a day. An estimated 60 percent of Hondurans live in poverty.
 Last week, Mr. Zelaya's supporters, led by an estimated 50,000 teachers, tried to put more pressure on the de facto government by keeping schools closed, staging days of demonstrations and blocking traffic along highways around the country's two major cities.
 ''I don't think I have ever seen a president like him,'' Ms. Castro said of Mr. Zelaya. ''Maybe he made mistakes, but he always erred on the side of the poor. That is why they will fight to the end for him.'' 
 While political leaders on both sides have played to the most passionate emotions of their constituencies, everyday life has taken on a surreal tinge here. The de facto government contends that life in the country has returned to normal. But public schools remain closed, troops have been deployed to protect most government offices, clashes between the police and protesters erupt most days, and reports of attacks against the press and government opposition leaders have begun to increase. 
 Most of the news media, both in print and over the airwaves, offer a steady drumbeat of vague accusations of corruption, drug trafficking and insurrection against Mr. Zelaya and his cabinet.
 On the other extreme, graffiti portrays the leader of the de facto government, Roberto Micheletti, as ''Pinocheletti,'' a reference to Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator. Human rights groups accuse the coup-installed government of using ''death squad'' strategies against its opponents. So far, however, only two people have been killed in the weeks of political strife since the coup; as many people died in unrelated clashes at a soccer game, underscoring the high level of violence in the country.
 More than a month after Mr. Zelaya's ouster, diplomatic efforts to end the political crisis are stalled in off-again-on-again talks that have been mediated by President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica. Political observers said that rather than negotiating in good faith, Mr. Micheletti was using those talks as a way to run out the clock until the presidential election scheduled for November. 
 The latest stalling tactic, they said, came two weeks ago when Mr. Micheletti asked Mr. Arias to send a new international envoy to meet with representatives from different sectors of Honduran civil society. In response to that request, the Organization of American States will send a delegation of foreign ministers to meet with the de facto government on Tuesday.
 Those same political observers were critical of Mr. Zelaya, who they charge is playing with political fire, whipping up his supporters with incendiary political stunts along the border between Honduras and Nicaragua. 
 ''The problem with the Arias proposal is that neither side really sees it as a solution,'' said Victor Meza, who served as Mr. Zelaya's interior minister. Mr. Meza noted that Mr. Micheletti saw Mr. Arias's idea of creating a temporary power-sharing government as a way to prolong his power, while Mr. Zelaya was increasingly viewing the compromise as a trap. 
 Perhaps most poignantly, however, the divide wreaking havoc in this country is embodied by people like Ms. Lopez Contreras, 61, and Ms. Castro, 50. As educated, professional leaders of their communities who came of age at the height of this country's transition from military to civilian rule, it would seem that they would have a lot in common. In fact, like so many other Hondurans, some of their views still seem frozen in those times.
 They stand squarely, and somewhat contemptuously, on opposite sides as far as Mr. Zelaya is concerned. Ms. Lopez Contreras speaks with deep conviction when she argues in support of the coup, saying that Mr. Zelaya, whom she described as afflicted with megalomania, had planned to use his powers and popularity to dissolve the other branches of government and to rewrite the Constitution in order to extend his presidency.
 Her activism against Mr. Zelaya began in earnest in June, after he refused to obey a court order that prohibited him from holding a referendum to ask voters whether they would support rewriting the Constitution.
 Gripe sessions with small groups of friends, she said, turned into the formation of a political action committee that led protests of tens of thousands people who marched on Congress, the Supreme Court and military installations to demand that authorities stand against the executive branch's attempts to override their authority.
 Their marches, with participants dressed all in white as a symbol of peace and transparency, brought together groups that had previously been adversaries, including the Roman Catholic and Evangelical churches, chambers of commerce and several labor unions, and both of the country's main political parties.
 ''The poor have always protested, and the rich always speak their minds, but the middle class never protested until now,'' Ms. Lopez Contreras said of the demonstrations. ''It was as if Honduras woke up.''
 The day Mr. Zelaya was ousted, Ms. Castro said, she experienced her own awakening. The principal of an elementary school with about 800 students, she said she was not a supporter of Mr. Zelaya. And before the coup against him, she was not a big supporter of the teachers' union, which she said was plagued with corruption.
 But she said that the president's ouster was an attack on her own freedom. And so she has closed her school and attended every union march and meeting to demand that he be returned to power.
 ''This is not about President Zelaya,'' Ms. Castro said. ''This is about my country. Many people gave their lives so that we could have a democracy. Andwe cannot let a group of elites take that away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: To Armida Villela de Lopez Contreras, a former vice president, President Manuel Zelaya was ousted because his closeness to Venezuela's leader had become a threat to Honduran democracy.
 To Hedme Castro, at right, the principal of an elementary school, the president was ousted because people like Ms. Lopez Contreras felt threatened by his efforts to lift up the poor.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDGARD GARRIDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); COUPS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); POOR POPULATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%)

PERSON: MANUEL ZELAYA (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (98%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



230 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Green Shoots In Palestine II

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Ramallah, West Bank 

 BODY:
 Ever since the collapse of the Oslo peace accords in 2000, and the horror-show violence that followed, there has been only one thing to say about the West Bank: Nothing ever changes here, except for the worst. That is just not the case anymore -- much to my surprise. 
 For Palestinians, long trapped between burgeoning Israeli settlements and an Israeli occupation army, subject to lawlessness in their own cities and the fecklessness of their own political leadership, life has clearly started to improve a bit, thanks to a new virtuous cycle: improved Palestinian policing that has led to more Palestinian investment and trade that has led to the Israeli Army dismantling more checkpoints in the West Bank that has led to more Palestinian travel and commerce. 
 Because the West Bank today is largely hidden from Israelis by a wall, Israelis are just starting to learn from their own press what is going on there. On July 31, many Israelis were no doubt surprised to read this quote in the Maariv daily from Omar Hashim, deputy chairman of the Chamber of Commerce of Nablus, the commercial center of the West Bank: ''Traders here are satisfied,'' said Hashim. ''Their sales are rising. They feel that life is returning to normal. There is a strong sense of optimism.'' 
 Make no mistake: Palestinians still want the Israeli occupation to end, and their own state to emerge, tomorrow. That is not going to happen. But for the first time since Oslo, there is an economic-security dynamic emerging on the ground in the West Bank that has the potential -- the potential -- to give the post-Yasir Arafat Palestinians another chance to build the sort of self-governing authority, army and economy that are prerequisites for securing their own independent state. A Palestinian peace partner for Israel may be taking shape again. 
 The key to this rebirth was the recruitment, training and deployment of four battalions of new Palestinian National Security Forces -- a move spearheaded by President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Salam Fayyad of the Palestinian Authority. Trained in Jordan in a program paid for by the U.S., three of these battalions have fanned out since May 2008 and brought order to the major Palestinian towns: Nablus, Jericho, Hebron, Ramallah, Jenin and Bethlehem. 
 These N.S.F. troops, who replaced either Israeli soldiers or Palestinian gangs, have been warmly received by the locals. Recently, N.S.F. forces wiped out a Hamas cell in Qalqilya, and took losses themselves. The death of the Hamas fighters drew nary a peep, but a memorial service for the N.S.F. soldiers killed drew thousands of people. For the first time, I've heard top Israeli military officers say these new Palestinian troops are professional and for real. 
 The Israeli Army's chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Gabi Ashkenazi, has backed that up by taking down roughly two-thirds of the 41 manned checkpoints Israel set up around the West Bank, many since 2000, to stifle Palestinian suicide bombers. Those checkpoints -- where Palestinians often had to wait for two hours to just pass from one city to the next and often could not drive their own cars through but had to go from cab to cab -- choked Palestinian commerce. Israel is also again letting Israeli Arabs drive their own cars into the West Bank on Saturdays to shop. 
 ''You can feel the movement,'' said Olfat Hammad, the associate director of the Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research, who lives in Nablus and works in Ramallah. ''It is not a burden anymore to move around to Ramallah for business meetings and social meetings.'' Nablus recently opened its first multiplex, ''Cinema City,'' as well as a multistory furniture mart designed to cater to Israelis. Ramallah's real estate prices have skyrocketed. 
 ''I have had a 70 percent increase in sales,'' Maariv quoted a Nablus shoe store owner as saying. ''People are coming from the villages nearby, and from other cities in the West Bank and from Israel.''
 But men and women do not live by shoe sales alone. The only way the Palestinian leadership running this show can maintain its legitimacy is if it is eventually given political authority, not just policing powers, over the West Bank -- or at least a map that indicates they are on a pathway there. 
 ''Our people need to see we are governing ourselves and are not simply subcontractors for Israeli security,'' Prime Minister Fayyad told me. Khalil Shikaki, a leading Palestinian pollster, added that Abbas and Fayyad want ''to be seen as building a Palestinian state -- not security without a state.'' That is why ''there has to be political progress alongside the security progress. Without it, it hurts them very much.''
 America must nurture this virtuous cycle: more money to train credible Palestinian troops, more encouragement for Israel's risk-taking in eliminating checkpoints, more Palestinian economic growth and quicker negotiations on the contours of a Palestinian state in the West Bank. Hamas and Gaza can join later. Don't wait for them. If we build it, they will come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (66%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



231 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: For Mexico, a Rivalry and a Nation to Revive

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN; Nacha Cattan contributed reporting from Mexico City.

 BODY:
When Mexico was a dominant regional soccer power, the 7,200-foot altitude of Estadio Azteca in Mexico City provided sufficient advantage to assure a home victory against the oxygen-starved United States.
 But Mexico is struggling to qualify for the 2010 World Cup, and gamesmanship has now been tinged with dread. Wednesday's crucial qualifying match at Azteca has been shifted from an accustomed evening kickoff to midafternoon. This is to lessen chances of a downpour in the rainy season, said Mexican soccer officials, who also would not mind seeing the hypoxic Americans flail in moderate heat and soupy pollution. 
 Even the slightest edge cannot be overlooked. Never has Mexico appeared so vulnerable at home to the United States, which is 0-22-1 south of the border, but which gained new international respect with a victory over Spain, then the world's No. 1 team, and an encouraging showing against Brazil in the final of the recent Confederations Cup in South Africa.
 Meanwhile, Mexico is ranked 30th in the world -- its second-lowest rating ever. A defeat to the United States would not eliminate El Tricolores from the 2010 World Cup but would place Mexico's chances in severe jeopardy. 
 ''Not to qualify for the World Cup would really be devastating,'' Justino Compean, the president of the Mexican soccer federation, said in an interview in Chicago.
 To lose at home to the 12th-ranked United States for the first time would also sting sharply. Soccer is Mexico's national sport and one endeavor in which it could long claim superiority while preserving its identity in the face of America's heavy economic and cultural influence.
 ''In the U.S., we can accept losing,'' said Jesus Bracamontes, a television commentator and a former assistant for the Mexican national team. 
 ''In Mexico, it would be like death.''
 Marco Cuevas, a master's candidate in political science in Mexico City, said: ''It's a question of nationalism. Soccer was once the only area in which we were better than the United States.''
 Wednesday's match arrives with Mexico looking inward as it faces a dire economy, a swine flu epidemic and brutal drug wars, said Emilio Kouri, the director of the Katz Center for Mexican Studies at the University of Chicago.
 ''There is a sense among some people that the crisis in the national soccer team is a reflection of a larger stagnation,'' Kouri said. ''If Mexico should win, it could be something that people could rally around. If Mexico loses, it will increase the ongoing deep soul-searching and will feed into this recurring sense of failure.'' 
 From 1937 to 1980, the United States did not win a soccer match against Mexico, which hosted the 1970 and 1986 World Cups and reached the quarterfinals each time. 
 The rivalry began to change after the United States qualified for the 1990 World Cup -- its first appearance in 40 years -- and later started its own professional league, while also sending many top players to hone their skills in more advanced European leagues.
 From June 11, 2000, until late July this year, Mexico lost nine and tied two of the 11 matches it played away from Azteca against the Americans. This included a 2-0 defeat to the United States in the most important game between the countries -- at the 2002 World Cup in South Korea.
 ''Americans don't step on the field against the Mexicans and feel they're underdogs,'' said Bruce Arena, who coached the United States at the 2002 World Cup. ''Previously, they were intimidated by the talent and reputation of the Mexican team. I think that has disappeared.''
 On July 26, Mexico finally won in the United States for the first time in a decade, humiliating the Americans, 5-0, in the final of the regional Gold Cup tournament at Giants Stadium. But the Americans played only one regular, while Mexico also fielded many reserves.
 That victory temporarily alleviated Mexico's soccer crisis and increased pressure to win Wednesday's rematch. The win could ''end up weighing like a burden of unrealistic expectations,'' the columnist Hector Aguilar Camin wrote in the newspaper Milenio.
 Enrique Nava, a Mexican actor, reflected the country's widespread angst when he said half-jokingly of the Gold Cup, ''Either the game was thrown or Mexico trained for three months while the U.S. took a vacation.'' He remained apprehensive about Wednesday's game, saying, ''Mexico has a 100 percent chance of losing.''
 Mexico can have difficulty handling athletic success in a tribal culture that values fitting in more than standing out, said Juan Villoro, the Mexican author of a book about religion and soccer, ''God Is Round.''
 ''For the German or American team, achieving something shows you can go on for the better,'' Villoro said from Barcelona, Spain. ''For the Mexican team, we're not used to success. It's like when you do something out of order, something strange is happening: what's the catch?'' 
 Three teams in the North American, Central American and Caribbean region will automatically qualify for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. The fourth-place team will enter a playoff against the fifth-place team from South America.
 Midway through the final round of qualifying, the Americans sit comfortably in second place, while Mexico is a perilous fourth after losing in the United States and, embarrassingly, in Honduras and in El Salvador.
 Mexico's national team has had four coaches since the 2006 World Cup. Officials, coaches and players feel enormous pressure from the news media, fans and club team owners, said Compean, president of the Mexican federation.
 ''I was 6-2 when I took this job; now I'm only 5-4,'' Compean said with a rueful laugh. ''My hair was black; in three years, it has turned white.''
 Landon Donovan, the American playmaker, said he sensed that the Mexican team was ''scared to fail.''
 ''For so long, they had this confidence, this macho sense of 'We never lose,' '' Donovan said. ''Now you can see, when we're in the tunnel, it's like: 'What's going to happen after we lose? The media and the fans are going to be after us.' '' 
 The allowance of five foreign players per club team in Mexico's domestic league has stifled the development of young players, officials said. And although more Mexicans are playing professionally in Europe, some emerging stars, like forwards Giovani dos Santos and Carlos Vela, have struggled to get regular playing time there.
 ''It's not ideal,'' Javier Aguirre, Mexico's coach, said. ''But I'm very optimistic we'll be in the World Cup.''
 After failing to qualify for the 2008 Beijing Olympics and two youth world championships this year, Mexico has begun to examine its entire soccer development structure, from nutrition to conditioning to cultivating a national style of play that will not change each time a new coach is hired.
 ''The Americans are stronger than the Mexicans; the Brazilians are faster than the Mexicans,'' said Nestor de la Torre, the director general of Mexico's youth and senior national teams. ''We have to play to the way that exploits the qualities the Mexicans have.''
 Despite its problems, Mexico figures to be difficult to beat on Wednesday. In four decades, it has lost only one World Cup qualifying match at Azteca, which will be filled with 105,000 fans and will sound like a beehive with the buzz of plastic horns.
 Even victory, however, would bring some small disappointment for Mexican fans, said Villoro, the writer. 
 ''We regret that it would notbe a national tragedy in the United States,'' he said. ''We want people to say, 'We're so sad we lost to Mexico in soccer.' But it will not be a major trauma for the American public. It is not their national sport.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A celebration took place in Mexico City after Mexico's 5-0 victory over the United States in the Gold Cup final. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO UGARTE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); RANKINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (61%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); EPIDEMICS (50%); INFLUENZA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



232 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: A Business to Call Your Own (Fore!)

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ROSLYN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 DAVID SHAW, 47, got his first job with a catering company at 14, worked his way through Michigan State's hotel management school and, after graduating in 1983, was selected for a prestigious Hilton Hotel training program.
 While still in his 20s, he was hired as general manager for a small country club in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and in 1993 took over as general manager of the Engineers Country Club in Roslyn Harbor on Long Island's Gold Coast.
 During his 11 years there, he was general manager -- the top paid position -- earning $250,000 by 2004. That year, after a lot of planning and fretting, Mr. Shaw decided to start his own business, consulting for country clubs. ''It was a big risk,'' he said, ''but I felt the time was right, I had a lot of credibility in the industry and our kids were young.'' 
 The nation was in the middle of an entrepreneurial explosion. The number of companies with five or fewer employees was growing rapidly, from 4.5 million in 2001 to 5.4 million in 2008. Baby boomers like Mr. Shaw played a leading role, accounting for a disproportionate number of the self-employed, said Steve Hipple, a Bureau of Labor Statistics economist. 
 But as Mr. Shaw would learn, there could be big risks in being your own boss, even in a field as seemingly genteel as private clubs.
 His firm, Country Club Advisor, offered to help clubs increase membership, cut costs and recruit top management. Even then, with the economy going strong, many clubs were struggling against dwindling membership. A new generation of men, more involved in their children's lives, didn't have time for six hours of golf and drinks on a Saturday.
 Mr. Shaw sent out his first mailing in fall 2004, vowing to be an impartial consultant between the two forces that control country clubs: the board -- member-volunteers who oversee the clubs -- and the general managers, the paid staff members that run the clubs. ''We will not be intimidated, swayed or directed by either board members or managers,'' he wrote. He also offered the ''$25,000 challenge'' -- if he did not find $25,000 in savings that a club felt was legitimate, he would not charge for his services.
 Almost immediately, he ran afoul of the powerful organization of country club general managers, the Metropolitan Club Managers Association. The local chapter includes 230 managers and assistant managers at 100 of the most prestigious country clubs in Westchester and Long Island, a tightknit group that represents over 90 percent of local club managers.
 Association members complained he was going behind their backs to board members and making them look bad. According to one e-mail message that Mr. Shaw provided a reporter, Michael Galluzzo, general manager of Brae Burn Country Club in Purchase, N.Y., at the time, wrote: ''I am outraged that David Shaw would send a mailing to my house chairman describing a $25,000 challenge. This challenge is for his company to come into my club and show them how they can save $25,000. How dare he!!'' The message, which was addressed to the head of the managers' association at the time, Barry Chandler, and forwarded to Mr. Shaw continued: ''As president of our association, I am calling upon you to put a stop to this kind of behavior.'' The message concluded: ''If he wants to save clubs money, let him go to any of the other 49 states and see how they like it.''
 Mr. Shaw contends this was the beginning of a unified effort by the club managers association to blackball him; that his newsletter mailings were destroyed by general managers before board members could see them; that the effort intensified after the economic collapse in the fall of 2008 and culminated with meetings in the spring of 2009, at the Siwanoy Country Club in Bronxville, N.Y., and the Salem Golf Club in North Salem, N.Y., where, he said, he was warned to stop with his cost-saving offers.
 In June, Mr. Shaw filed a lawsuit against the association and its leaders, seeking financial damages.
 Joseph Ortego, a lawyer for the association's leadership, declined to comment on the e-mail message or any other aspect of Mr. Shaw's suit. He referred a reporter to a July 17 letter sent by Todd Zorn, the association president, to its members: ''Rest assured that both the chapter and the individuals named deny all the allegations within the lawsuit and look forward to presenting the facts as this unfolds through the legal system.''
 Mr. Shaw said that when he walked into the office of his lawyer, Jeffrey K. Brown, he knew he was crossing a line that could cost him dearly. ''I knew I might be giving up my career, signing my death warrant. The country club world is a tightknit, secretive community. The thing is, at this point, I'm dead if I don't do anything, and I'm dead if I do.''
 He said his business of four employees grossed half a million dollars in 2008, but the ''boycott'' had cost him work with several clubs, at a loss of as much as $120,000 a job.
 Mr. Shaw had many satisfied customers. Dr. Robert Lewis, admissions chairman at North Shore Country Club in Glen Head, said the club used Mr. Shaw's services for two years and was very pleased. ''He improved membership, dining services, pool services -- he raised the bar,'' he said. Tony Vespa, president of Upper Montclair Country Club in New Jersey, said Mr. Shaw found them a new general manager and golf course superintendent. ''He was highly professional, organized, knew his business,'' Mr. Vespa said.
 Mr. Shaw said in 5 years he's placed about 20 general managers and assistant managers, but only half belonged to the association. ''They didn't like losing control,'' Mr. Shaw said.
 On Sept. 25, 2006, Randy Ruder, general manager of Beach Point Club in Mamaroneck and the association president at the time, sent a certified letter to Mr. Shaw criticizing him for ''targeting mailings to club boards without the manager's knowledge,'' calling it a violation of the association's ethics policy. The letter requested that Mr. Shaw ''stop this practice immediately.''
 ''This is America,'' Mr. Shaw said in an interview. ''I can send mail to anyone I want.'' He also noted that he'd offered to send his newsletters to managers in e-mail form so they would have them before their boards. ''That wasn't the real issue,'' he said. ''They were afraid of losing control.''
 The final straw for Mr. Shaw came earlier this year, when he was about to hire Gene Westmoreland, the Metropolitan Golf Association's longtime tournament director and a highly respected figure in the country club world.
 In an interview, Mr. Westmoreland said he had known Mr. Shaw for years and was very impressed with him. He confirmed that he was considering joining Mr. Shaw's firm until he spoke to ''a couple of people'' who told him ''David's relationship with the general managers was not as strong as it might be.'' He declined to identify those people, adding, ''No one said I should not do it.''
 ''For me to succeed in this work, a wonderful relationship with general mangers would be essential,'' he said, ''and since that was an issue, I decided to pull back.''
 Mr. Shaw said when he complained about this at an April 3 meeting at Salem Golf Club, Mr. Zorn, the association president, told him to stop his mailings or ''we'll continue to stop you.''
 Mr. Shaw said the economy plus the Madoff fraud has ratcheted up the pressure on country club managers. ''It's bloody,'' he said. ''More's at stake now.'' He said he's learned a hard lesson that people who go into business for themselves come to understand: You try to anticipate everything, but you never do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MIXED GREENS: David Shaw has ups and downs in consulting for country clubs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); STATISTICS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



233 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; CHEERING SECTION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Sports Come Through in the Clutch

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
In 1968, when I was young, Detroit was in shambles. Its soul had been wrenched open the summer before by riots that pitted angry black residents against a mostly white police force. The city's newspapers were on strike. Auto industry leaders were beginning to worry about a threat posed by the Japanese.
 Only one thing kept the city together, or so it seemed: the Tigers. 
 On the beaches of its metropolitan parks and in the kitchens and backyards of homes across Michigan, like the one where I grew up, we heard the voices of Ernie Harwell and Ray Lane broadcasting the play-by-play on WJR-AM and its sister stations.
 When the Tigers beat the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series, we were all united in more than just delight. The community, young and old, needed the success for spiritual reasons as much as for the sheer pleasure of seeing a sports team prevail.
 Lately, I've felt a similar bond, only on a much grander scale and across many playing fields. As so many people around the world have lost their jobs, and seen their homes deflate in value and their countries become unsettled, sports have stepped in to distract us.
 It is almost as if athletes everywhere have sensed an extra responsibility in 2009 and are rising to the occasion. They have good reason to do so. Even before the recession that has gripped the world, fans were increasingly fed up with doping scandals and violence and disappointments involving their sports heroes. 
 But athletic performance makes a difference now, far more than in a prosperous year.
 Here in Detroit, where the Tigers have a tenuous grip on first place in the American League Central, two special events have gripped the city's attention this year.
 In April, it was the N.C.A.A. Final Four, in which the Michigan State men's basketball team ultimately lost to North Carolina. Granted, it was a stretch to classify the East Lansing-based Spartans as a local team, but the 100-mile distance was happily overlooked, given the boost that M.S.U. gave to the local mood.
 Two months later, the city was alternately jubilant and depressed, not to mention sleep deprived, thanks to the Red Wings. They tussled with the Pittsburgh Penguins before conceding the Stanley Cup in Game 7. That final buzzer at Joe Louis Arena ushered in a remarkable few months. 
 This summer has brought to mind not only my 1968 Tigers, but also the United States' hockey victory over the Soviet Union in the 1980 Olympics and France's victory over Brazil in the 1998 World Cup final, which sent a million people surging onto the Champs-Elysees in celebration.
 In rapid succession, fans around the world have been riveted by events that almost no one could have predicted.
 In June, the United States men's soccer team stunned top-ranked Spain in the Confederations Cup and led a shocked Brazilian team in the tournament's final. There was no Miracle on Turf, however, and the Americans wound up losing the game but gaining respect.
 Then came Roger Federer's record-setting match against Andy Roddick at Wimbledon, an agonizing, exhilarating nail-biter whose final set lasted 30 games. The session went on long past the usual breakfast at Wimbledon and well into lunch before Federer finally claimed his 15th Grand Slam singles title.
 It seemed only a blink of an eye before the 59-year-old Tom Watson was in the spotlight, falling a good putt short of winning the British Open but reassuring every golfer around the world that age was second to skill.
 Layered over those individual performances was the three-week Tour de France, with so much drama it was hard to know which story was the most intriguing. 
 The Spanish cyclist Alberto Contador, whose eyes have the same intensity as Federer's, emerged as the best in his sport. But Lance Armstrong's third-place finish at 37, after three and a half years away from racing, was clearly what many Americans cared about most.
 Of course, sports are a diversion, not a solution, and bad news does not stop because players are having a good year. As these events took place, the unemployment rate in America rose above 9 percent, the British government was hit by scandal, and Michael Jackson and Walter Cronkite died.
 But the summer isn't over just yet. We still have the P.G.A. Championship this week and the United States Open in tennis. 
 Then comes fall and the World Series, when maybe, just maybe, my Tigers can recreate their magic once more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Tigers' success this season has boosted Detroit's spirits in much the same way the team's World Series championship in 1968, above, did. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); ICE HOCKEY (88%); RIOTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); ATHLETES (72%); STRIKES (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (67%); SOCCER (67%); BASKETBALL (67%); FIELD HOCKEY (57%); LAYOFFS (52%); SCANDALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (91%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



234 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Discount Astor

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS the Astor trial continues into its 15th week downtown at State Supreme Court in Manhattan, the value of the late Brooke Astor's Park Avenue apartment is shrinking uptown. 
 Last week, Mrs. Astor's estate cut the asking price on her duplex at 778 Park Avenue and East 73rd Street -- which has 14 rooms, five wood-burning fireplaces and a red-lacquered library -- by another $4.1 million, to $24.9 million. That is 46 percent below the original asking price of $46 million when the apartment went on the market in May 2008, nine months after Mrs. Astor, the society grand dame, died at 105.
 The price was cut to $36 million after the economic turmoil last fall, and then, after a change in brokers, was reduced to $29 million in February, a month before the start of the fraud trial of Mrs. Astor's son, Anthony D. Marshall, now 85, who is alleged to have taken advantage of Mrs. Astor's dementia to persuade her to change her will to channel millions of dollars his way.
 The latest price chop works to a cut of nearly $275,000 for each week of the trial, and brokers are debating whether the notoriety of the case is damaging sale prospects, and if the price has to drop still further to catch a falling luxury market. 
 A few months ago, when traffic at the Astor apartment had slowed to a trickle, the court-appointed estate trustees and representatives of Mr. Marshall held a lengthy briefing session with real estate experts, including Elizabeth F. Stribling, the president of Stribling & Associates, and Kirk Henckels, the broker with the listing. 
 They reviewed the apartment's strengths and weaknesses, and the potential impact of the trial on buyers who might shy away from a place associated with so much negative publicity. One broker familiar with the listing thought that the slashed price was long overdue and could lead the sellers of other overpriced Upper East Side co-ops to cut prices as well, stimulating sales at last. 
 But others predicted that additional price cuts would be needed to close a deal, given the amount of work needed to restore the apartment, which is in a co-op with strict rules for renovations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



235 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Paying for the Privilege Of a Summer Internship

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH; Gerry Shih is a summer intern at The Times. He is paid.

 BODY:
With paying jobs so hard to get in this weak market, a lot of college graduates would gladly settle for a nonpaying internship. But even then, they are competing with laid-off employees with far more experience. 
 So growing numbers of new graduates -- or, more often, their parents -- are paying thousands of dollars to services that help them land internships. 
 Call these unpaid internships that you pay for. 
 ''It's kind of crazy,'' said David Gaston, director of the University of Kansas career center. ''The demand for internships in the past 5, 10 years has opened up this huge market. At this point, all we can do is teach students to understand that they're paying and to ask the right questions.''
 Not that the parents are complaining. Andrew Topel's parents paid $8,000 this year to a service that helped their son, a junior at the University of Tampa, get a summer job as an assistant at Ford Models, a top agency in New York.
 ''It would've been awfully difficult'' to get a job like that, said Andrew's father, Avrim Topel, ''without having a friend or knowing somebody with a personal contact.'' Andrew completed the eight-week internship in July and was invited to return for another summer or to interview for a job after graduation.
 Andrew's parents used a company called the University of Dreams, the largest and most visible player in an industry that has boomed in recent years as internship experience has become a near-necessity on any competitive entry-level resume. 
 The company says it saw a spike in interest this year due to the downturn, as the number of applicants surged above 9,000, 30 percent higher than in 2008. And unlike prior years, the company says, a significant number of its clients were recent graduates, rather than the usual college juniors.
 The program advertises a guaranteed internship placement, eight weeks of summer housing, five meals a week, seminars and tours around New York City for $7,999. It has a full-time staff of 45, and says it placed 1,600 student interns in 13 cities around the world this year, charging up to $9,450 for a program in London and as little as $5,499 in Costa Rica. 
 The money goes to the University of Dreams and the other middlemen like it. Officials at the company say they are able to wrangle hard-to-get internships for their clients because they have developed extensive working relationships with a variety of employers. They also have an aggressive staff who know who to call where. Their network of contacts, they say, is often as crucial as hard work in professional advancement.
 ''Students don't have problems finding internships, students have problems getting internships,'' Eric Normington, the company's chief marketing officer, said by telephone from Hong Kong where he was overseeing the local program. ''We can secure those exclusive positions.''
 Employers say the middlemen save them time and hassle. ''They make the search process a lot easier,'' said Sarah Cirkiel, the chief executive of Pitch Control Public Relations, a small New York firm that started four years ago and has taken in 20 summer interns, all from the University of Dreams. ''I feel like they hand-select their interns for the specific agencies to make sure it's the right fit. They just show up at our doorstep, ready to go.''
 But many educators and students argue that the programs bridge one gulf -- between those who have degrees from prestigious colleges or family connections and those who do not -- only to create a new one, between the students who have parents willing and able to buy their children better job prospects and those who do not.
 ''You're going to increase that divide early, on families that understand that investment process and will pay and the families that don't,'' said Anthony Antonio, a professor of education at Stanford University. ''This is just ratcheting it up another notch, which is quite frightening.''
 Julia McDonald, the career services director at Florida State University, questioned the need for these programs. ''The economy has had an impact, but there are more than enough internship opportunities out there still,'' she said. ''That's like buying a luxury car.''
 Other college advisers cautioned that while the desire to help is understandable, parents who pay for an internship program are depriving their children of the chance to develop job-seeking skills or to taste rejection before they have to fend for themselves.
 The industry dismisses the criticism.
 ''Universities forget that they themselves are, in essence, businesses,'' said C. Mason Gates, the president of Internships.com, an online placement service. ''Just because they're doing it in a nonprofit fashion doesn't mean that those of us doing it for profit are doing it incorrectly.''
 The University of Dreams has several smaller competitors. One is the Washington Center, which places students at institutions like Amnesty International and the Canadian Embassy in Washington. The center is a nonprofit but charges summer participants a $5,195 program fee on top of a $60 application fee. If students choose to pay $3,395 for 10 weeks of prearranged housing -- and more than 90 percent do, the center said -- the total comes to $8,650.
 Online start-ups that match students with internships have joined in, too, as have auction services that have sold internships worth thousands of dollars. 
 Francois Goffinet entered the University of Dreams program in 2007 as a student at William and Mary College, he said, because he wanted an internship at a top bank but those banks did not recruit at colleges like his. The University of Dreams advisers polished Francois's resume. They coached him on interviews and then helped him secure an internship at UBS, which he then converted into a job offer.
 ''We wanted the biggest and the best,'' Francois's mother, Lynn Andrews, recalled. ''No one had the direct route.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 9 about students who are paying services to help them land unpaid internships rendered the name of one student's college incorrectly. It is the College of William & Mary, not William and Mary College.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students attending a panel discussion at New York University about internships and the companies that assist in obtaining them.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



236 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: More Help for New Yorkers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE federal government is offering tax credits for first-time home buyers. Now the state of New York is sweetening the pot.
 The State of New York Mortgage Agency, or Sonyma, which provides mortgages for low- and moderate-income borrowers, is expected to announce this week that it will offer federal income tax credits to certain first-time buyers, equal to 20 percent of annual mortgage interest costs.
 The Mortgage Credit Certificate program, which would stop accepting applicants at the end of the year, is similar to the federal government's first-time home buyer program, which provides an $8,000 credit and expires on Nov. 30. But unlike the federal program, Sonyma renews its tax credit annually. 
 Already, big banks like M&T Bank and Wells Fargo have agreed to take part in the program, and Sonyma said others would soon follow. The banks are likely to start accepting applications in early September, Sonyma said, and borrowers who have not yet closed on loans secured through participating lenders will be able to apply. 
 Here's how the program might work, according to Priscilla Almodovar, the chief executive of Sonyma: On a $200,000 30-year loan with a 5.5 percent fixed interest rate, a homeowner is likely to pay $10,933 in interest. On next year's income tax return, the homeowner can claim 20 percent of the interest, or $2,186, as a direct tax credit. That would translate to a saving of $182 a month over what the homeowner would pay if he or she simply took the mortgage interest as a deduction on the federal tax return. 
 Those who receive the Sonyma credit can also take the remaining 80 percent of their mortgage interest as a federal tax deduction.
 If the home buyer's tax liability is less than the mortgage credit in any one year, he or she can carry forward the unused portion of the tax credit for three years. 
 To qualify, prospective borrowers must be first-time home buyers. Applicants must also use the house as a principal residence and choose a fixed-rate loan. 
 For some people in the greater New York City area, though, the bigger obstacles are Sonyma's income limits and house price limits, which vary by county. 
 In New York City, the combined annual income for households with three or more people cannot exceed $107,520, and the house price cannot exceed $637,640. The price limits are the same for Nassau and Suffolk Counties, but the income threshold is higher -- $142,520 for homes with three or more people.
 Partly as a result of those limits, Ms. Almodovar said she expected roughly 700 families to apply for the credits this year. (Over all, homeowners are expected to close on about 1,340 Sonyma mortgages this year, down from about 4,000 last year.)
 According to David Wind, the chief executive of the Guaranteed Home Mortgage Company in White Plains, the new state program makes prospective borrowers marginally more attractive to lenders, because it effectively lowers their mortgage payments.
 ''It may provide a vague assurance of a higher likelihood of good future payment performance,'' he said. ''But if there's anything the state can do to decrease the housing stock, that's fantastic, and this program could get more people into the showroom.''
 Neither New Jersey nor Connecticut has a plan to offer similar programs. 
 Jerry Keelen, the director of the single-family program for New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency, says the state is instead offering advances of $5,000 on the $8,000 federal tax credit, so first-time home buyers do not have to wait until next spring to use the federal government's housing incentive.
 In Connecticut, assistance programs remain largely unchanged from recent years, said Rose Holbrook, the marketing and customer service coordinator for the Housing Finance Authority. If borrowers qualify for the down payment assistance, they can often buy a home with no out-of-pocket expenses, she said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAMILY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



237 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Are the Glory Days Long Gone for I.T.?

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF Thomas M. Siebel can accurately see the future, computer science students with the entrepreneurial gene may want to look for a different major. And investors who think that information technology is a sector that will produce outsized returns should wake up.
 In Mr. Siebel's view, I.T. is a mature industry that will grow no faster than the larger economy. He contends that its glory days are past -- long past, having ended in 2000. 
 I believe that Mr. Siebel may well be wrong. But his own illustrious career in I.T. makes his opinions a matter of uncommon interest. 
 Earning both a master's degree in computer science and an M.B.A. at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, he was an executive at Oracle from 1984 to 1990. In 1993, he founded Siebel Systems, which sells software for tracking customers and sales prospects; the company was acquired in 2006 by Oracle, which paid almost $6 billion. In Mr. Siebel's self-deprecating narrative, he was simply standing in the right place at the right time.
 Addressing Stanford students in February as a guest of the engineering school, Mr. Siebel called attention to 20 sweet years, from 1980 to 2000, when, he said, worldwide I.T. spending grew at a compounded annual growth rate of 17 percent. ''All you had to do was show up and not goof it up,'' he said. ''All ships were rising.''
 Since 2000, however, that rate has averaged only 3 percent, he said. His explanation for the sharp decline is that ''the promise of the post-industrial society has been realized.'' 
 No new technological advances, he believes, would impel I.T. customers to replace the computer technology they already had: ''I would suggest to you that most of what's going on today is not very exciting.''
 In his view, far larger opportunities are to be found in businesses that address needs in food, water, health care and energy. Though Silicon Valley was ''where the action was'' when he finished graduate school, he says, ''if I were graduating today, I would get on a boat and I would get off in Shanghai.''
 When I called him last month to discuss his provocative arguments, he was disarmingly modest. ''I'm just an old has-been, I don't present myself as an expert in this or any other area,'' he said.
 The huge difference in growth rates, pre- and post-2000, may seem so stark as to leave no room for an alternative view of I.T.'s prospects.
 But the recent drop is not as steep as it seems at first. I asked Shane Greenstein, an economist at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management who has written extensively about the computer industry, to take a look at the raw data upon which those numbers were supposedly based: the annual I.T. spending estimates published by IDC. 
 Mr. Greenstein's calculations produced a more moderate compounded annual growth rate of 11.6 percent for 1980 to 2000, instead of 17 percent. (Mr. Siebel's personal assistant said last week that the 17 percent in the Stanford talk came from a staff member who calculated from a reading of a chart, not from precise figures.) 
 When Mr. Greenstein looked at the full IDC data set, which goes back to 1961, and used other breakpoints to compare growth in earlier and later periods, he found that the most golden years of I.T. were in the 1960s, when use of mainframe computers spread widely. From 1961 to 1971, the compounded annual growth rate was 35.7 percent, more than three times the rate in the 1980-2000 period celebrated by Mr. Siebel. 
 Declining growth rates over time are to be expected, Mr. Greenstein said. After all, it doesn't take many sales to show huge percentage gains when the base is small. 
 TIMOTHY BRESNAHAN, a Stanford economist, similarly does not accept Mr. Siebel's contention that the decline in growth rates this decade, which encompasses two recessions, signals a permanent end to I.T.'s record of growing faster than the larger economy. ''It is early days to say the game is over,'' he said.
 When the economy recovers, there is no dearth of unfinished projects for I.T., he said, like ''automating white-collar work and automating buying and selling in markets.'' 
 And when one company dominates a certain area of technology, it can be a bottleneck along the road to innovation -- an obstacle to the technology of others. Mr. Bresnahan says that this has happened with Microsoft in the PC side of corporate information technology, and in earlier times with I.B.M. in computers and AT&T in telecommunications. But he said that entrepreneurial companies of those earlier days -- like Siebel Systems -- ultimately invented around bottlenecks and ''innovation-led growth picked up again.''
 The biggest decline in I.T.'s growth came at the end of the 1960s, well before Mr. Siebel's own I.T. career. A fortune or two could still be made, it turns out. Siebel Systems, which its founder says attained $2 billion in revenue annually in only seven years, was founded after the growth rate of I.T. spending dropped precipitously.
 Entrepreneurial engineers in the United States should take heart. There's no cause for mass flight to Shanghai. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with the Digital Domain column, about the growth of information technology spending, misstated the surname of the I.T. entrepreneur who saw a decline in that growth in recent years. As the column correctly noted, he is Thomas M. Siebel, not Siebold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Siebel saw a plunge in information technology's growth rate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNN DONALDSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A Matter of Perspective: The growth in information technology spending has slowed over the years, but by how much depends on which years are included and excluded in the calculations.(Sources: IDC (data)
 Shane Greenstein, Northwestern University (calculations)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SALES & SELLING (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



238 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING AROUND ASTOR ROW, CENTRAL HARLEM; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: A Front-Porch Block, Once and Again

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
ASTOR ROW, on West 130th Street just off Fifth Avenue, with wooden porches and shady front gardens, was once regarded as one of the most tranquil and exclusive streets in Upper Manhattan. That was before it was caught up in the abandonment, decline and drug dealing that shook much of urban America in the late 20th century.
 Now much of it is back. The gardens are in full bloom; porch sitting is back in style. After millions in public and private investment in the area -- including efforts by newcomers and families with a heritage there going back decades -- the block is at the center of an intense but, as yet, unfinished revival of the surrounding streets in Central Harlem.
 For just as the neighborhood had begun to see a flowering of new restaurants and retail businesses, the economic downturn brought with it uncertainty and falling prices. But adversity does offer opportunity. Brokers say that lower rents and town house prices have brought back bargain hunters, who were priced out a year or two ago. 
 In 1988, when Gulsen Calik, and her husband, Lars Westvind, both artists, moved from the East Village to a house on Astor Row, they had seen only the outside. Like many houses on the block then, it was boarded up. 
 The price, according to property records, was $30,000. The couple quickly walled off a space at the front and turned it into a studio while they fixed up the rest of the house. ''It is a very different Harlem now,'' Ms. Calik said. ''Now it is the quietest and prettiest block in Manhattan.''
 A few doors down, Chantal Lemaire, and her husband, Frederic, who both work for the United Nations, are renting a three-bedroom duplex created a few years ago, when a group of investors converted a rooming house back into a two-family home.
 The couple moved to the block for more space for their growing family -- a three-bedroom apartment for the price of a two-bedroom downtown, Ms. Lemaire says -- but they stayed because they found the street uncommonly friendly. ''It is like a village,'' she said. ''Everyone knows everyone.''
 As if to prove her point, her neighbor, Peter Holtzman, an architect, was in front of his house next door, detailing the history of Astor Row to Cheryl Cox, the director of an Upper East Side rhythmic gymnastics program, who was looking to rent a basement one-bedroom in his house.
 Mr. Holtzman bought his house for $750,000 in 2004 and set about restoring it as a three-family. He told Ms. Cox that in the 1880s, when the Astor family put up the row, the rent was $1,500 a year.
 Now he was asking $1,850 a month for the one-bedroom, which has its own entrance and opens onto a garden. Ms. Cox had been renting at Lenox Terrace, the huge private complex a few blocks away, but was looking for a change.
 Mr. Holtzman warned her that it sometimes took him 15 minutes to walk to the corner, because he talked to neighbors along the way. There is the elderly woman who sits on the stoop across the street each afternoon; she knows most people on the block and everything about it. There is the teacher who bought back a house that her grandfather had owned in the 1960s. 
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Astor Row consists of 28 houses, on a single block on the south side of West 130th Street. The three-story red-brick houses are attached in pairs, each 20 feet wide on 25-foot-wide lots, allowing extra light to spill into interior rooms. The houses are set back 20 feet from the street; almost all have wooden porches built with turned posts. 
 Across the shady street stand stately high-stooped town houses. The surrounding neighborhood, from Madison Avenue to Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard (also known as Seventh Avenue), from 125th to 135th Street, consists of row houses, small apartment buildings and a few new condominiums. 
 The sprawling Lenox Terrace stretches across three blocks, from 132nd to 135th. A privately owned housing development that went up in the 1950s, it has 1,700 apartments in a six-building complex. It is home to a number of prominent Harlem figures, and was a bit player in a Washington melodrama not long ago, when Representative Charles B. Rangel acknowledged renting four below-market rental apartments there. (He later gave up one apartment, which had been used as a campaign office.)
 Many vacant or deteriorated houses were rebuilt during the recent boom, but on just about every street in the area, one or two shells remain. 
 Around the corner from Astor Row is the Victorian row house that from 1903 to his death in 1917 was the home of Philip A Payton Jr., the black Realtor who opened Harlem to blacks. In the 1980s, after years as a rooming house, the house stood vacant and boarded up, next to three empty lots. A few years ago, it was converted into four rentals, while the Lenox, a 12-unit condominium, went up on the vacant lots. 
 Lewis Futterman, the Lenox's developer, said the long-term outlook for Harlem real estate was strong, especially because there is only a limited supply of privately owned building lots left for future development.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 A completely renovated three-family Astor Row house sold for $1.875 million in 2007, near the top of the market, and one hasn't sold there since. A handful remain boarded up. Neighbors say one Astor house, with considerable original interior detail, is likely to go on the market soon, as part of an estate sale. 
 Asking prices for town houses in the neighborhood vary widely: a Modernist four-story on East 128th Street off Fifth Avenue is listed at $3 million; the shell of a house on West 130th Street is priced at $850,000. 
 At the Lenox Grand, a new condominium on the west side of Lenox Avenue at 129th Street, a large two-bedroom with a balcony is listed at $675,000, after a 13 percent price cut.
 Rents in Harlem average about $1,800 for one bedroom and $2,200 for two, brokers say. Asking prices in new developments can run considerably higher. 
 Yvonne Maddox, a broker with Halstead's Harlem office, says that although the market stalled last fall, things have changed in the last two months, with contracts being signed and more properties being put on the market. 
 Condo prices in northern Manhattan were off 19 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according a recent Halstead market report.
 THE COMMUTE
 It is an easy commute downtown to either the East or West Side. There is an express stop for the No. 3 subway on the corner of Lenox Avenue and West 125th Street, a seven-minute walk away. The Lexington Avenue express is a 10-minute walk, at Lexington Avenue and East 125th. Total travel time to either Times Square or Grand Central Terminal is about 30 minutes.
 WHAT TO DO
 Residents extol a new wave of restaurants and cafes, as well as some old standbys like Sylvia's, the soul food restaurant on Lenox Avenue near West 127th Street. 
 There is the Trattoria Amici, an Italian-American restaurant in the Lenox Grand at 381 Lenox, and a new wine shop, Lenox Wines, next door. Just north is La Perle Noire, a cafe and bakery, and down West 131st is Tasty News, a newsstand, cafe and general store. 
 On Fifth Avenue and West 129th Street, Pascal's Eatery has tables on a terrace above street level. There also is a new French bistro, Chez Lucienne, on Lenox and West 126th.
 But for groceries many people still head by car to Fairway on West 130th Street and 12th Avenue, or leave Harlem entirely.
 THE SCHOOLS
 Public schools in Central Harlem have a history of failure. At No. 133, the Fred R. Moore School, fourth-grade scores have risen over the last few years, but still lag considerably, with 45.7 percent of students meeting standards in English and 62.2 percent in math, versus 68.9 and 84.9 citywide. 
 Many parents search out other options -- from schools for gifted students, to charter or private schools. Families who move here from the Upper West Side often keep their children in the public schools there, brokers say. 
 THE HISTORY
 It was in the early 1880s that William Astor put up Astor Row, a small sliver of the building spree that produced the original Waldorf-Astoria. The houses, which were rentals, remained part of the Astor estate until about 1912, when 10 were sold. The houses were originally rented only to white families, but Harlem began to change after real estate values collapsed around 1905. In 1920, The New York Times described ''Harlem's Astor Row for Colored Tenants'' and warned of ''radical changes'' ahead.
 Though the houses were declared landmarks in 1981, many of the porches had rotted away. Brooke Astor provided the New York Landmarks Conservancy a grant, eventually totaling $1.7 million. All but three porches were restored, and the funds have since run out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MIRROR IMAGES: Astor Row's 28 red-brick houses, attached in pairs and mostly redone, are a symbol of the area's recent revival. Most porches were restored through a grant provided in the 1990s by Brooke Astor.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FAMILY (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); GYMNASTICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



239 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR ALBERTO GONZALES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: The Counselor

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
As the first Latino to have served as the attorney general, what are your thoughts as Sonia Sotomayor prepares to become the first Latina on the Supreme Court? This is obviously a proud and historic moment for all Hispanics. 
 It has been two summers since you resigned, and you're still living in Virginia? I've got an apartment in Lubbock, Tex. We're in the process of moving my family down to Texas. I'll be teaching this year at Texas Tech University.
 When does school begin? My first day of class is Aug. 31. I've also been asked to help the chancellor and the president of the university in recruiting and retaining minorities. I'm very excited about that effort. I'll be traveling the state with school officials trying to help them in that mission. 
 You're scheduled to teach a political-science class called ''Contemporary Issues in the Executive Branch.'' What kind of syllabus have you put together? You mean what am I going to be teaching? We're obviously going to look at the issues that are confronting this administration. I'm going to try to get the studentsa behind-the-scenes look at how the White House is really organized and how it operates.
 Some 70 professors at Texas Tech have signed a petition that protests your appointment and cites your ''ethical failings,'' including misleading Congress abut the firing of nine federal prosecutors. What will you tell your students about that? All the inspector-general investigations, they're now over with. They found that I had not engaged in any criminal wrongdoing. 
 Isn't there still an ongoing investigation by a special prosecutor who was appointed last year to look into the removal of the attorneys? I wish I could comment on that, but because it's an ongoing investigation, I cannot. 
 Would you agree that your reputation was damaged by your service as attorney general? It has had an effect, a negative effect, no question about it, and at times it makes me angry because it is undeserved. But I don't want to sound like I am whining. At the end of the day, I've been the attorney general of the United States. It's a remarkable privilege, and I stand behind my service. 
 Has any law firm offered you a job since you left the White House? Listen, I've had some interest and I've had some discussions, but there has been no offer made. In a tough economic climate, I can understand why a company or a firm would want to make sure that the investigations are complete and there is no finding of wrongdoing before they make a hiring decision. 
 Have you asked Bush or Cheney to help defray your legal bills? I have not asked them personally. 
 I think you should ask them. They got you into this pickle. Shouldn't they help get you out? Listen, I have a group of supporters that are helping me fund-raise. They're making decisions about how to do this successfully. 
 What are your legal bills like? Substantial. I'll say that obviously it's been a burden. We did establish a legal-defense fund, and we have raised and are in the process of raising additional monies to pay for the lawyers.
 Why, exactly, did you suddenly resign as attorney general? I'm in the process of writing a book, and I'll get into greater detail on some of those reasons.
 Do you have a publisher for your book yet? No.
 Do you still talk to President Bush? I have not spoken with the president since he left office. 
 Have you ever been tempted to pick up the phone and say hi to him? I do, of course, think about our time together, and there are times when I think about doing that. But listen, I know that he has his life to live. I've got challenges and my life to live as well.
 INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID S. HOLLOWAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CURRICULA (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); PETITIONS (72%); ETHICS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (73%); DICK CHENEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



240 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change Seen as Threat To Security and Drain on Military

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The changing global climate will pose profound strategic challenges to the United States in coming decades, raising the prospect of military intervention to deal with the effects of violent storms, drought, mass migration and pandemics, military and intelligence analysts say.
 Such climate-induced crises could topple governments, feed terrorist movements or destabilize entire regions, say the analysts, experts at the Pentagon and intelligence agencies who for the first time are taking a serious look at the national security implications of climate change.
 Recent war games and intelligence studies conclude that over the next 20 to 30 years, vulnerable regions, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and South and Southeast Asia, will face the prospect of food shortages, water crises and catastrophic flooding driven by climate change that could demand an American humanitarian relief or military response.
 An exercise last December at the National Defense University, an educational institute that is overseen by the military, explored the potential impact of a destructive flood in Bangladesh that sent hundreds of thousands of refugees streaming into neighboring India, touching off religious conflict, the spread of contagious diseases and vast damage to infrastructure. ''It gets real complicated real quickly,'' said Amanda J. Dory, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for strategy, who is working with a Pentagon group assigned to incorporate climate change into national security strategy planning. 
 Much of the public and political debate on global warming has focused on finding substitutes for fossil fuels, reducing emissions that contribute to greenhouse gases and furthering negotiations toward an international climate treaty -- not potential security challenges. 
 But a growing number of policy makers say that the world's rising temperatures, surging seas and melting glaciers are a direct threat to the national interest. 
 If the United States does not lead the world in reducing fossil-fuel consumption and thus emissions of global warming gases, proponents of this view say, a series of global environmental, social, political and possibly military crises loom that the nation will urgently have to address.
 This argument could prove a fulcrum for debate in the Senate next month when it takes up climate and energy legislation passed in June by the House.
 Lawmakers leading the debate before Congress are only now beginning to make the national security argument for approving the legislation.
 Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and a leading advocate for the climate legislation, said he hoped to sway Senate skeptics by pressing that issue to pass a meaningful bill.
 Mr. Kerry said he did not know whether he would succeed but had spoken with 30 undecided senators on the matter. 
 He did not identify those senators, but the list of undecided includes many from coal and manufacturing states and from the South and Southeast, which will face the sharpest energy price increases from any carbon emissions control program.
 ''I've been making this argument for a number of years,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''but it has not been a focus because a lot of people had not connected the dots.'' He said he had urged President Obama to make the case, too. 
 Mr. Kerry said the continuing conflict in southern Sudan, which has killed and displaced tens of thousands of people, is a result of drought and expansion of deserts in the north. ''That is going to be repeated many times over and on a much larger scale,'' he said.
 The Department of Defense's assessment of the security issue came about after prodding by Congress to include climate issues in its strategic plans -- specifically, in 2008 budget authorizations by Hillary Rodham Clinton and John W. Warner, then senators. The department's climate modeling is based on sophisticated Navy and Air Force weather programs and other government climate research programs at NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
 The Pentagon and the State Department have studied issues arising from dependence on foreign sources of energy for years but are only now considering the effects of global warming in their long-term planning documents. The Pentagon will include a climate section in the Quadrennial Defense Review, due in February; the State Department will address the issue in its new Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review.
 ''The sense that climate change poses security and geopolitical challenges is central to the thinking of the State Department and the climate office,'' said Peter Ogden, chief of staff to Todd Stern, the State Department's top climate negotiator. 
 Although military and intelligence planners have been aware of the challenge posed by climate changes for some years, the Obama administration has made it a central policy focus.
 A changing climate presents a range of challenges for the military. Many of its critical installations are vulnerable to rising seas and storm surges. In Florida, Homestead Air Force Base was essentially destroyed by Hurricane Andrew in 1992, and Hurricane Ivan badly damaged Naval Air Station Pensacola in 2004. Military planners are studying ways to protect the major naval stations in Norfolk, Va., and San Diego from climate-induced rising seas and severe storms.
 Another vulnerable installation is Diego Garcia, an atoll in the Indian Ocean that serves as a logistics hub for American and British forces in the Middle East and sits a few feet above sea level. 
 Arctic melting also presents new problems for the military. The shrinking of the ice cap, which is proceeding faster than anticipated only a few years ago, opens a shipping channel that must be defended and undersea resources that are already the focus of international competition.
 Ms. Dory, who has held senior Pentagon posts since the Clinton administration, said she had seen a ''sea change'' in the military's thinking about climate change in the past year. ''These issues now have to be included and wrestled with'' in drafting national security strategy, she said.
 The National Intelligence Council, which produces government-wide intelligence analyses, finished the first assessment of the national security implications of climate change just last year. 
 It concluded that climate change by itself would have significant geopolitical impacts around the world and would contribute to a host of problems, including poverty, environmental degradation and the weakening of national governments. 
 The assessment warned that the storms, droughts and food shortages that might result from a warming planet in coming decades would create numerous relief emergencies.
 ''The demands of these potential humanitarian responses may significantly tax U.S. military transportation and support force structures, resulting in a strained readiness posture and decreased strategic depth for combat operations,'' the report said. 
 The intelligence community is preparing a series of reports on the impacts of climate change on individual countries like China and India, a study of alternative fuels and a look at how major power relations could be strained by a changing climate.
 ''We will pay for this one way or another,'' Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, a retired Marine and the former head of the Central Command, wrote recently in a report he prepared as a member of a military advisory board on energy and climate at CNA, a private group that does research for the Navy. ''We will pay to reduce greenhouse gas emissions today, and we'll have to take an economic hit of some kind. 
 ''Or we will pay the price later in military terms,'' he warned. ''And that will involve human lives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The conflict in southern Sudan, which has killed and displaced tens of thousands of people, is partly a result of drought in Darfur.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO)(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (71%); REFUGEES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (57%); RELIGION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



241 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Open Wide: Spoon-Fed Cinema

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
IN ''Funny People,'' the new movie starring Adam Sandler, the audience is treated to glimpses of a movie starring Mr. Sandler's character, a stand-up comedian turned movie star named George Simmons. The film within a film, which looks like a variation on the venerable ''Look Who's Talking'' theme, features George's head digitally superimposed on the body of an infant, an effect that is both grotesque and funny, and also pregnant with cultural significance. 
 It's obvious that the image of a baby with Adam Sandler's face self-mockingly encapsulates much of Mr. Sandler's career, pointing up his curious and durable overgrown-child appeal. And it is also clear that the film's writer and director, Judd Apatow, is lampooning some aspects of his own work, which has shamelessly exploited (though it has also earnestly explored) the juvenile, even infantile impulses that seem to define the soul of the modern male American. 
 But ''Funny People'' is decidedly not a further indulgence of such urges, in spite of anxious and obnoxious jokes about genitals and excrement. It's a movie about growing up, feeling sad, facing death -- a long, serious film whose subject is the challenge of maturity. Which may be why, in the face of a softish opening weekend, various interpreters of box office data were quick to declare ''Funny People'' a flop. The summer is no time for grown-ups.
 My point is not to defend Mr. Apatow's movie, which opened to mixed reviews and which is likely to have a rich and complicated afterlife as a subject for argument. I'm more troubled about the haste to declare that ''Funny People'' failed to connect with its audience. A similar rush to judgment greeted Michael Mann's ''Public Enemies'' last month, and in those pronouncements you can hear the sound of conventional wisdom taking shape.
 Or you can see it embodied in that alarming man-baby, with the braying voice and the 5 o'clock shadow affixed to a pale, flabby, diaper-wrapped trunk. There may be no more incisive rendering of Hollywood's self-image, and perhaps no truer, more damning mirror held up to the audience. Mewling, incontinent little bundles of id with dirty minds and mouths -- that's pretty much what the major studios think of us. What do they think we want? The summer's biggest blockbuster so far is ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' an epic -- four minutes longer than ''Funny People'' -- based on a line of toys from Hasbro. And kids' stuff has dominated the multiplexes and the Monday-morning box office tallies since May. There have been the 3-D guinea pigs of ''G-Force,'' the fuzzy (and 3-D) prehistoric creatures of the third ''Ice Age'' movie, the historical personages of the second ''Night at the Museum'' picture and of course the schoolboy wizard and his pals in the sixth installment of the Harry Potter series. 
 Those are the products overtly aimed at younger audiences. But the celebration of youth, in particular of male immaturity, extends to movies like ''The Hangover,''Todd Phillips's riotous and regressive crude-dude comedy with a superficial resemblance to the school-of-Apatow line, and J. J. Abrams's ''Star Trek,'' which reimagines the beloved space-travel adventure as, essentially, a Harry Potter movie. 
 There are exceptions of course. ''Angels & Demons'' sent a cast of grownups chasing around the Vatican in search of clues to an ancient mystery. And the season's successful romantic comedies, ''The Proposal'' and ''The Ugly Truth,'' while perfectly conventional, do their predictable business in a more or less adult setting. But everyone (at least in the United States) has already forgotten about ''Angels & Demons,'' and the Hollywood rom-com, in olden times a sparkling repository of wit and glamour, has been relegated to the status of commercial counterprogramming. Those are date movies, chick flicks, a condescending little something for the ladies. The real action is elsewhere, with the boys and their toys.
 I know, I know. School's out. People want an easy good time, free air-conditioning to go with their expensive snacks, a little escapism in a time of stress. These are the truisms of summer, invoked every time some pointy-headed grouch complains about the prevalence of sequels, or superhero movies, or big, dumb popcorn spectacles. We like big, dumb popcorn spectacles.
 Or course we do -- even the pointy-headed grouches among us. But those reliable axioms about the taste and expectations of the mass movie audience are not so much laws of nature as artifacts of corporate strategy. And the lessons derived from them conveniently serve to strengthen a status quo that increasingly marginalizes risk, originality and intelligence.
 The big lesson of the summer of 2009 is that those qualities, while they may be desirable in some abstract, ideal way, don't pay the bills. The studios, housed in large and beleaguered media conglomerates, have grown more cautious as the economy has faltered, releasing fewer movies and concentrating resources on dependable formulas. Nearly every big hit so far has been part of a franchise built on an established cultural brand. 
 In the case of the comedies, raunchy or romantic, the genre functions as the brand, and in the case of ''Up,'' the Pixar label, almost uniquely in today's Hollywood, carries its own cachet and appeal. But otherwise (and to some extent in these cases as well) the last few months have been a festival of the known, the stuff you already bought and, from force of habit or loyalty or maybe even satisfaction, decided to upgrade.
 Not every new product is a sure bet. ''Terminator Salvation'' didn't do so well, but then again the original Terminator is having some trouble in his current job. From Wolverine and Mr. Spock in May through the Decepticons and wizards of July it has been a triumph of the tried and true, occasionally revitalized or decked out with novelty, but mostly just what we expected. No surprises.
 What kind of person constantly demands something new and yet always wants the same thing? A child of course. From toddlerhood we are fluent in the pop-cultural consumerist idiom: Again! More! Another one! (That George Simmons giant-baby comedy is called ''Redo.'') Children are ceaselessly demanding, it's true; but they are also easily satisfied, and this combination of appetite and docility makes the child an ideal moviegoer. But since there are a finite number of literal children out there, with limited disposable income and short attention spans, Hollywood has to make or find new ones. And so the studios have, with increasing vigor and intensity, carried out a program of mass infantilization. 
 The mostly pedestrian, occasionally enchanting, highly lucrative movies of this summer offer testimony to the success of that program. And the seasonal roster of winners and losers, as defined by box office tea-leaf readers, suggests some additional dividends. Toys, comic books, and familiar fictional characters are a bigger, more reliable draw than movie stars or well-known directors, and are also easier to control. 
 Wolverine, Captain Kirk, Harry Potter, Hasbro -- those trademarks and secondary merchandising opportunities will reliably get kids into the theaters. But the examples of ''The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3,'' ''Public Enemies'' and, perhaps, ''Funny People'' are widely taken to mean that artists like Denzel Washington, John Travolta, Michael Mann, Johnny Depp and Judd Apatow may not have the same guaranteed pull. Never mind that ''Public Enemies'' has actually done pretty well after a slow start, and that the running time, subject matter and tone of ''Funny People'' make it hard to compare with ''Knocked Up'' or ''Happy Gilmore.'' Conventional wisdom is always happy to ignore such nuances.
 This may be because any reduction in the clout of stars or the autonomy of directors redounds to the benefit of the companies that own the copyrights and distribute the goods. And a little anthology of cautionary economic tales from this summer will prove useful in the future, when ambitions need to be corralled and egos held in check. Middle-aged actors and critically lauded directors look like extravagances rather than sound investments. Forty is the new dead. Auteur is French for unemployed. ''The Hurt Locker'' -- the kind of fierce and fiery action movie that might have been a blockbuster once upon a time -- is treated like a delicate, exotic flower, released into art houses and sold on its prestige rather than on its visceral power.
 The box office numbers don't lie, but they don't tell the whole story either. The weekend grosses, widely guessed at on Thursday night and breathlessly reported by the middle of Sunday afternoon, record the quantity of tickets purchased, but they cannot register the quality of the experience. The aggregate of receipts shows that a lot of people like going to the movies, but not necessarily that they like what they see. 
 Commercial success may represent the public's embrace of a piece of creative work, or it may just represent the vindication of a marketing strategy. In bottom-line terms, this is a distinction without a difference. A movie that people will go and see, almost as if they had no choice, is a safer business proposition than one they may have to bother thinking about. In this respect ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen'' is exemplary. It brilliantly stymies reflection, thwarts argument, arrests intelligent response. The most interesting thing about the movie -- apart from Megan Fox's outfits, I suppose -- is that it has made nearly $400 million domestically.
 There is nothing else to say. Any further discussion -- say about whether it's a good movie or not -- sounds quaint, old-fashioned, passe. Get a clue, grandpa.
 Or go see ''Up,'' the only hugely successful movie of the summer that engages genuinely adult themes. It's about loss, frustration, disappointment. And it offers one of the season's most pointed and paradoxical lessons. If you want to make a mature film for mature audiences, make sure it's a cartoon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Franchise players: Blockbuster successes include ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,'' right
''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' below left
and ''Star Trek,'' below right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY INDUSTRIAL LIGHT & MAGIC/PARAMOUNT PICTURES)
Pushed to the sidelines: Among films that Hollywood considers also-rans are ''Public Enemies,'' top
''The Hurt Locker,'' middle
''The Proposal,'' bottom.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER MOUNTAIN/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN OLLEY/SUMMIT ENTERTAINMENT VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY KERRY HAYES/TOUCHSTONE PICTURES)(pg. AR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); INCONTINENCE (71%); MOVIE THEATERS (54%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (60%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



242 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 9509 words

HEADLINE: Karzai In His Labyrinth

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH RUBIN. 
Elizabeth Rubin, a contributing writer and Edward R. Murrow fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, has reported extensively on Afghanistan for the magazine, most recently from the Korengal Valley in ''Battle Company Is Out There.''

 BODY:
On a sunny June morning in Kabul, I sat among hundreds of turbaned men from Afghanistan's Helmand and Kandahar provinces in a chandeliered wedding hall where they had gathered for a campaign rally to re-elect President Hamid Karzai. War was raging in Helmand and Kandahar. And yet there was an atmosphere of burlesque about the place. Waiters hammed up their service, skidding across the floor balancing mounds of rice, bananas and chicken, whirling shopping carts of Coke and Fanta. The organizer of the event and master of ceremonies was none other than Sher Muhammad Akhundzada, the five-foot-tall ex-governor of Helmand and probably the country's most infamous drug trafficker. From a velvet couch he barked out to the speakers: ''Not so many poems! Keep your speeches short!'' -- but no one was listening. 
 At my table, an elderly Helmandi engineer described how awful things were in his region -- families killed in coalition airstrikes, villages overrun by the Taliban. So why more Karzai? ''If we choose someone else, it will only get worse,'' he said through an interpreter. Another man said that at least Karzai had brought education and unity. ''They are all lying,'' a third said in English. He was the son of a prominent Kandahari elder who, a year before, was assassinated outside the family's house. He'd also lost his uncle, brother and 45 other members of his extended family, he told me. He blamed the government. He was shaking his head at the spectacle in the wedding hall. ''I told the men at my table, 'You just came to show your faces on camera so if Karzai wins he will give you privileges.' '' He laughed and said, ''They told me they just came for lunch.'' I asked what he thought would happen during the election in Kandahar. ''Fraud,'' he said. He himself claimed to have made 8,000 fake voter-registration cards. They were selling for $20.
 After lunch, in a downstairs room filled with mannequins in pink and green wedding gowns, I had a chat with Akhundzada, the ex-governor. He is campaigning in the south for Karzai. First he wanted to explain that the nine tons of drugs found in his compound in 2005 were planted there by the British to frame him. Then he changed tack: ''If people think I was a smuggler, O.K. But at least I spent the money on government and soldiers! Now the money goes to the Taliban and kills British and Americans and Afghan soldiers.'' This is the same logic that Karzai used to try to get Akhundzada reinstalled as governor of Helmand. The British would not accept it. This seemed distinctly unfair to Akhundzada, given the other characters on the political stage: ''They don't take Fahim out of elections? Dostum is not criminal? Mohaqiq is not criminal? Just me?''
 It was a comical and sinister and telling performance -- a prominent Karzai backer damning key members of the president's re-election team (locally dubbed ''the warlord ticket''). The ethnic-Tajik Muhammad Fahim is running as Karzai's first vice president (having previously served in the same post and as defense minister); the ethnic-Uzbek warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum is returning from Turkey to deliver Uzbek votes to Karzai; and the ethnic-Hazara politician Muhammad Mohaqiq is a key Karzai ally to whom Karzai pledged five ministerial posts.
 ''I swear,'' Akhundzada went on, eyes agog, ''I have not killed a cat in all my life.'' With that he took off with his rifle-toting guards and disappeared into his armored S.U.V.
 Karzai applauds himself for his big-tent, forgive-and-forget approach. But his opponents are thrashing him for it. ''If the goal is to consolidate a group of drug dealers as the government of Afghanistan so that you have relative peace, then what is the vision?'' asked Ashraf Ghani when we met at his gracious villa on the southwestern edge of Kabul in February, a few months before he decided to run for president himself. ''Is that what the 20-year-old girl who wants to become a computer engineer or doctor has in mind? Or the 22-year-old Afghan who won two gold medals in computers? Can they become stakeholders in an Afghanistan run by Sher Muhammad Akhundzada?''
 The presidential campaign has put Karzai's style of politics on trial. There are 41 candidates running in Afghanistan's second-ever presidential elections, which take place on Aug. 20. Karzai's main competitors are two of his former ministers -- Ghani, who was finance minister from 2002 to 2004 and an adviser to the World Bank for 10 years; and Abdullah Abdullah, an ophthalmologist who became a close adviser to the legendary mujahedin commander Ahmed Shah Massoud (assassinated by Al Qaeda just before the 9/11 attacks) and served as foreign minister under Karzai until 2006. When I asked Abdullah what he'd do to stop drug smuggling, he said, ''I wouldn't let my brother touch it.'' He was referring to Ahmed Wali Karzai, the president's half-brother, who is accused of running Kandahar like a mafia don and overseeing one of the local drug cartels. ''Seriously, you lose your legitimacy if the perception is that your brother is doing it and benefiting from millions of dollars.''
 Ghani, on his Web site, has branded the Karzais a mafia family, ''Karzai Incorporated.'' ''The largest threat to Afghanistan now is this government,'' he told me recently. ''Just take one figure: last fiscal year from March 2007 to 2008, the Ministry of Finance collected 40 billion Afghanis, which is equivalent to around $800 million. The same ministry declares that the real revenue should have been 120 billion Afghanis. They are acknowledging that, due to corruption, 80 billion is being lost.'' That, he said, worked out to $1.6 billion. ''We go beg the entire world: 'Please give us budget support; we need to pay our poor teachers and civil servants.' If the revenue was collected we wouldn't have needed a cent from the international community for the budget.''
 Does Karzai care? Is this what he wants? ''I don't think so,'' Ghani said. ''But I don't judge a president by his desires. I judge a president by his record and his company. We ranked 117 on Transparency International in 2005. Now we rank 176, the fifth-most-corrupt country on earth. It happened under his watch. And then he wants to run for office for another five years? Based on what? And the team he put together: isn't it a declaration of war against the people of Afghanistan?''
 Over the winter I spent several days in the presidential palace, the Arg, with Karzai and his entourage. I was hoping to find out who Karzai really is. Does he condone the venality of his friends and family? Is he unable to stop it? Is this just what life is in a country long torn by war? Did the West misjudge his character -- or did it make it impossible for him to rule? Is he just in love with power and pomp? And why, with all the accusations of criminality, the unfulfilled promises, his plummeting popularity, would Hamid Karzai even want to run again?
 I put this last question to him on a gloomy afternoon over tea at the Arg palace, where he lives and works and is confined much of the year. The question appeared to stump him. He said he had tried and failed to find a suitable replacement. Then he said, in his practiced English: ''I don't know what happened. I decided to run.'' Then he said: ''Look, I will tell you. But then I'll leave it up to you whether you want to print it or not.'' I was expecting some shocking revelation. But instead he fumbled about and said, ''When needed, my extreme toughness with our allies is an asset I want the Afghan people to have if they choose so.'' And, ''The second reason, I don't know how to put this. . . . I feel for the Afghan people, and they know that.'' It all sounded so cryptic. As his train of thought neared its destination, he suddenly said: ''I'm a very, very, very simple person. I have no property. I have no money. I have no love for luxury. If I find someone tomorrow that will combine all these three. . . . '' He sighed and took a deep breath. ''I'm an exhausted person. I've not begun this seven years ago. I've begun this when I was 22. I've not had a private life since then. I deserve one. I long for one.'' He lingered on the O of his longing. ''The moment I get this choice, I would leave.''
 It was clear that Karzai believes in the image he has fashioned of himself as protector and father of the Afghan nation. Or does he? Karzai is a theatrical man -- a ham, even -- funny and charming. He flourished in the adulation of his early years as head of state, when the fashion designer Tom Ford dubbed him the chicest man on the planet. His theatrical qualities have carried him along for some time. But what he actually believes is often hard to pin down. And lately the wear and tear of performance is beginning to show, like the creases in a fading diva. His friends told me he has health problems. He's skin and bones. He always has a cold or a cough and takes effervescent vitamin-C tablets compulsively, which he did as we spoke. ''He is stressed, short of patience, short of temper,'' a friend said. He snaps easily. Promotes flatterers. Kills the messenger. Hugs his enemies. Abuses his friends. And his twitching eye -- a nervous tic, they say -- is unusually active.
 Still, Karzai seems to feel he has a mission. Friends say he knows how bad his reputation is and wants to redeem his legacy. When I asked who his role model is, he said without hesitation, ''Gandhi.'' Ever since his days as a university student in India he has been fascinated by the man's life and his ideas of nonviolent liberation. Karzai clearly abhors violence. Tears came to his eyes whenever we spoke about civilian casualties. He once had an aide, in the middle of the night, go buy back a child bride whose parents had given her away to repay a debt. Karzai and his aristocratic Pashtun family revere Ghaffar Khan, the nonviolent Pashtun leader who lived from 1890 to 1988. Through his charisma and belief in education, Ghaffar Khan mobilized a pacific movement known as the Red Shirts, first against the British and then against Pakistan. It was a remarkable feat, given the warrior nature of the Pashtun tribesmen. Khan became known as the ''frontier Gandhi.''
 Gandhi is also a model for Karzai, he told me, in terms of tolerance. ''You can't imagine how much I've tolerated,'' he said, glaring from under his brow and leaning into his desk where he keeps two photographs, one of his 2-year-old son, Mirwais, and the other of the late King Zahir Shah. ''I was like a person carrying a very delicate jar, a vase, in my hands, a very precious, delicate one that is so valuable that you don't want it to drop, and you are walking through storms, through rains, through wind, through excesses of all kinds,'' he said, elongating his vowels and carrying himself away in the drama of his metaphor. ''You fall but you keep the vase, delicately holding it so it doesn't break. That's how Afghanistan was,'' he said. ''Carrying it for so long you have to be very accommodating. That weakens you.'' 
 What accommodations? The warlords? The foreigners?
 ''Everything,'' he said. ''Everything, everything, everything! I had to balance the U.S. and Iran in Afghanistan. I had to balance other countries in here. I had to balance Europe. I had to balance the Muslim world. I had to make Afghanistan a country where all work together for it. And that I have managed. Fortunately. But, you know, at great personal stress and cost.''
 The cost? Loneliness. A man painted into a corner. Every day he wakes to another round of punches from the world's diplomats and news media. He studies the press clippings, CNN, the BBC, the local news channels, ravenously and angrily. They blame him and his brothers and his ministers for the country's corruption, for the insurgency eating away at the nation, for running a narco-state (in Hillary Clinton's phrase) and even for the food shortages facing eight million Afghans. In January, when Karzai lashed out at one of his vice presidents in a cabinet meeting, accusing him of conspiring with foreigners, then threatened to go to the mountains to fight the invaders himself, word went around that Karzai was on the verge of a nervous breakdown.
 It wasn't hard to see why. ''No one is on his side,'' a foreign observer told me with mild pity. ''He's trapped in the palace, trapped by his family.'' When a bomb went off at the German Embassy in January, all the windows of his house were blown out. ''And little Mirwais,'' he said, ''was running around the house going bam-bam-bang-bang! Nobody had told Karzai. He was in his office. He got home and they were mending the windows.'' 
 The president's residence sits within the Arg palace grounds along a tree-lined path behind the Gul Khanna (the House of Flowers), where Karzai has his office. At the end of the workday, the president takes a brisk 10-minute walk. When I followed after him one cold evening, 10 men or more covered him as he walked along. His cellphone rang. He slipped aside. The men tried to stay near. Assassins have repeatedly tried to kill Karzai. A bullet just missed him in Kandahar in 2002. In 2007, he was rocketed during a speech in Ghazni, between Kabul and Kandahar -- but he stayed onstage. He insisted on holding an Independence Day parade last year despite security warnings. And sure enough, a well-trained hit squad fired on the parade, killing several officials and narrowly missing the president. For the last two years security has been so tight, friends say, that the president is getting what they call the Arg syndrome. Sometimes at night he has been known to slip out of the palace with a bodyguard in a beat-up car just to drive around Kabul and see what's going on. He will express surprise, delight, even, at the new buildings and sights. 
 I recently asked an old friend of Karzai's why Karzai would choose as his running mate Muhammad Fahim, a controversial figure who has been accused of multiple human rights abuses over many years. ''Karzai believes that his two greatest mistakes as president were the removals of Sher Muhammad Akhundzada and Marshal Fahim,'' he said. Both happened under intense Western pressure. The reason he regretted their removal was not that he thought they were honest statesmen but that he found they were more trouble out of office. Fahim's removal lost him mujahedin support, and Akhundzada's removal triggered the fall of Helmand Province to the Taliban. 
 To understand why everyone was so shocked that Karzai chose Fahim as his running mate, you need to know a little of the personal history between the two men. It shows how warlordism does and doesn't work -- and, in a sense, what Karzai will forgive to stay in power. Back in 1994, the mujahedin factions who fought off the Soviets were supposed to be cooperating in a coalition government. Instead they were deep in a civil war, rocketing one another and Kabul to smithereens.
 One of these factions belonged to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, today an outlawed insurgent but then prime minister and head of a large, mostly ethnic-Pashtun political party. Another belonged to the man who was then Afghanistan's president, Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of a largely Tajik party. In this government, Karzai was deputy foreign minister and trying, as is his wont, to play conciliator between the factions. But Rabbani and his men began to suspect that Karzai was plotting something with Hekmatyar. Rabbani's head of intelligence was none other than Muhammad Fahim. Karzai was hauled into an interrogation center in Kabul from which few returned alive. But just as the interrogation got under way, a rocket slammed into the roof of the building. Karzai fled to Pakistan.
 In 1996, after the Taliban captured Kabul and threw out the mujahedin factions, Karzai briefly considered becoming an ambassador for the Taliban government. After all, the Taliban were mostly, like Karzai, Kandahari Pashtuns; he knew many of them. But the position went to someone else. From that time until 2001, he joined a broad coalition of friends and enemies seeking a grand loya jirga, or tribal council, to bring peace to Afghanistan.
 With the overthrow of the Taliban, the ethnic Tajiks who made up the bulk of the Northern Alliance considered themselves the victors. At the Bonn Conference held in Germany in December 2001 to create the future Afghan government, the Northern Alliance Tajiks demanded and got the most important ministries. Given Afghanistan's demographics, everyone knew they needed an ethnic Pashtun as president, and Abdullah Abdullah, who was then with the Northern Alliance, pressed the case for Karzai. He seemed the perfect choice at the time, Abdullah recently told me: a Pashtun from a landed family in Kandahar, known to the Northern Alliance through years of jihad and then various peace processes. ''After fighting all those years against the Taliban, who were a southern Pashtun movement,'' Abdullah told me recently, ''for the north to push for someone from the south was breaking the ice and a milestone that we could build a future on.''
 Karzai's personal tale didn't hurt. Two weeks after 9/11, he hopped on the back of a friend's motorcycle in Quetta, Pakistan, and journeyed into the Taliban-infested Afghan mountains to persuade the tribes to revolt. He had no gunmen with him. Just a satellite phone from the C.I.A. and faith in his powers of persuasion. He and the men he gathered were chased by the Taliban but fought them off. ''They called for help to the C.I.A.,'' recalls Jason Amerine, who was a Special Forces captain assigned to make contact with Karzai. Navy Seals landed, pulled Karzai and tribal leaders out and flew them to a base in Pakistan. Even then, Karzai understood that appearances mean everything in a part of the world where conspiracy is taken as truth. He was willing to fudge the facts to seal the legend of his heroism. Live on the BBC, he insisted he was somewhere in Afghanistan. In fact, he was with Amerine in Pakistan. Nevertheless he did persuade the very reluctant Americans to help him return to Taliban land. ''Karzai was such a dark horse in all this that there was no real reason for anyone to risk it,'' Amerine said. ''He had no guys in the south. His plan was very idealistic: 'If we show up, the south will rise.' '' In the end, Afghans did rise against the Taliban, including in the south. Karzai was right. And his legend stuck.
 So it was that on a cold December evening in 2001, Hamid Karzai flew from Kandahar to Kabul to become the interim leader of the new Afghanistan. He had just a few men with him, including his uncle Aziz and his younger half-brother, Shawali, when he stepped onto the tarmac. There to greet him was Fahim, brow furrowed, as it always is, along with more than a hundred of his soldier-bodyguards.
 ''Where are all your men?'' he asked Karzai.
 ''You are my men,'' Karzai said to Fahim and his band of Northern Alliance fighters. ''All of you who are Afghans are my men.''
 Fahim was stunned. No tribesmen? No bodyguards? No soldiers? A civilian leader all alone? A southern Pashtun aristocrat putting himself in the hands of the Tajik northerners? Karzai entrusting his life to his former tormentor? It was a gesture of infinite faith. 
 From that day onward, Fahim became a thorn in Karzai's side, always reminding Karzai that his life depended on him. After Karzai's Pashtun vice president, Haji Qadir, was assassinated in July 2002, Karzai so distrusted Fahim's bodyguards (Fahim was then in charge of the army) that he accepted protection from U.S. forces. Cabinet meetings featured regular clashes between the so-called warlords on one hand and the technocrats -- or dogwashers, as the educated Afghan returnees were known -- on the other. In particular, men like Fahim and Ashraf Ghani (then minister of finance) were at each other's throats. And Karzai was once again in the middle.
 Zia Mojadedi, an old friend of Karzai's and now the ambassador to Poland, put much of the blame for the dysfunctional cabinet on the international community. ''Most of the NATO members have a gentleman in the cabinet,'' he told me. ''Each one defends his own man. And those who make donations are the ones deciding. So he was confused.'' One famous example is Dostum, the Uzbek warlord from the north. After he beat up and detained a political rival, he drank himself into a wild state and, in King Kong fashion, took up a position on the roof of his garish mansion in Kabul, baiting the police and vowing that they'd never take him alive. Karzai wanted to arrest him. But the Turks, who are major donors and are ethnically related to the Uzbeks, vehemently opposed the move. Finally a deal was worked out for Dostum to go for some rest and rehab in Turkey.
 For years everyone was telling Karzai to get rid of Zarar Ahmad Muqbil, his minister of the interior, whom senior U.N. officials accused of taking kickbacks from organized-crime rings within the ministry. But the Americans loved him on account of the glowing reports submitted by his American mentor. The internationals referred to her as ''Rosa Klebb,'' after the infamous Russian counterintelligence agent in the Ian Fleming novel ''From Russia With Love,'' who sported a venom-laden dart in her shoe. Even Karzai used to tease Muqbil, saying to him, ''How is your godmother?''
 ''In a microcosm, the problem with the whole of Afghanistan was Muqbil,'' says Jawed Ludin, Karzai's former chief of staff, who watched the whole fiasco with Zarar Muqbil unfold firsthand. ''To what extent do you blame Karzai? On the one hand, the British ambassador and friends would tell him Zarar was incompetent and should be removed. On the other, the American would praise him and say he's doing a fine job. And the Americans were the largest donor to police reform.''
 Karzai told me, ''I was a president without any resources directly in my control.'' It was a defensive response, but it was also true. According to one palace official: ''Early as 2003, in discussions with Donald Rumsfeld, Karzai would say: 'Look, we cannot live with this situation, when you think I am the president, but I am not. We cannot leave Dostum in the north, Shirzai in Kandahar, Ismail Khan in Herat.' And you know what Rumsfeld said? 'Look, Mr. President, they are our friends, and we do not want a green-on-green situation.' I didn't know this phrase then.'' Green on green: friendly soldier against friendly soldier.
 Later that year, Karzai threatened to resign if the warlords who were hogging all the customs revenue didn't turn their dividends over to the central government. A compromise was reached: the first of many. Karzai began to make peace, accommodating jihadis, Communists, technocrats, dogwashers, war criminals, democrats. All had a place in Karzai's big tent. The next two years could be called Karzai's honeymoon period. Two pillars were essential to his stability -- Lakhdar Brahimi, the wise old Algerian resistance leader and diplomat who headed up the U.N. mission, and Zalmay Khalilzad, an Afghan-American steeped in the traditions both of Afghan tribal horse-trading and American bureaucracy. They could help Karzai make tough decisions and back them up with American muscle.
 Then, in 2004, he won the first presidential elections ever held in Afghanistan. Brahimi and Khalilzad left -- and by 2005, most of the reformers around Karzai either walked away or were not invited back into his cabinet. Among those who left was Ashraf Ghani. ''In 2005, Karzai could have taken the country in any direction he wished,'' Ghani told me. ''His legitimacy knew no bounds.'' What happened? ''He failed to lead,'' Ghani said.
 Or maybe he led the only way he knew how. At heart, Karzai is a Pashtun tribal leader, just like his father was. What are the responsibilities of the tribal leader? To protect his property (livestock and women), his land and his people. If one of your people is put in jail, whether he lays mines, steals or murders, you're obliged to get him out and let the tribe deal with him. If the law helps your case, great. If not, tradition will do. That tradition is evident all over the campaign trail, where Karzai has even released criminals from prison so they can campaign for him.
 When Karzai's father was killed in Pakistan in 1999, his family and tribesmen decided that, because his older brothers were living in America, Hamid would take over as a leader of the tribe and, in keeping with tradition, they placed the turban on his head. When he assumed the presidency, he took what he knew from tribal leadership and applied it to his method of rule. He sees himself as the tribal leader of all Afghans. As such he's the last resort for those seeking to rectify injustice. ''In his dream he is a king,'' one friend says.
 Other close friends of Karzai describe his leadership style as a kind of three-card monte where you never know which card will appear. One card is tribal. ''His father was head of the tribe, and in tribal culture you depend on loyalty of individuals rather than institutions,'' said Ali Jalali, his former interior minister and a friend from refugee days in Pakistan. ''You always try to be a patron to people close and loyal to you.'' The second is the factional politics of resistance in Peshawar, where mujahedin leaders organized their resistance to the Soviet occupation. ''Jihadi politics is mostly wheeling, dealing, no strategy, all tactical,'' Jalali continued. ''Please people here. Break promises there.'' And the third is democracy. He cherishes the values of democracy but has no faith in its institutions. ''How he reconciles these competing demands creates his style of leadership,'' Jalali said. In reality, said another friend, ''he sees human rights, freedom of the press, the law, the constitution as chains around his hands and legs.''
 He is in his element playing Solomon, hosting elders for lunch in the palatial dining hall. They request a dam or a road or the release from custody of a tribesman accused of terrorism or kidnapping. If they are important politically -- and, in the case of a prisoner, can vouch for his future behavior -- Karzai often agrees, in kingly fashion. 
 He resists looking deeply into the consequences of his decisions. Last year, Karzai's wife, Zeenat, a gynecologist, saw a report on television about the rape of a very young girl and her family's futile quest for justice. Karzai was horrified. He had the police and prosecutor fired. He put the fight against rape on the national agenda. 
 Not long after, the other Karzai, the political animal, meddled in an obscure case in which a woman named Sara was raped by three men who were brothers. The evidence was overwhelming, and the brothers' conviction was upheld to the highest court. But Karzai issued a decree releasing them. Sara went mad, and her husband was murdered. 
 I asked Karzai in February: ''Why did you do that?'' 
 ''The story turned out to be different,'' he said. He couldn't remember the details and asked an aide to look into it. 
 In fact, the brothers reported to a local strongman, Mawlawi Islam, who was a member of Parliament and an important ally of Karzai's. Islam's son, who works in the Arg palace, told me that he had asked the palace staff to examine the case. The palace's administrative office then developed another story -- told to Karzai, and later to me -- claiming Sara's rape never took place and adding that her son had raped the wife of one of the convicted brothers. It became so convoluted that Karzai probably didn't know the details. Still, he signed a decree releasing the brothers in the name of Islamic mercy for their mother.
 ''We have a saying, When you come to power your eyes go blind, your ears go deaf and you don't know anything anymore,'' an old Kandahari friend of the president's told me. 
 Hence, perhaps, Karzai's willful blindness about what his own brothers are up to. In explaining Karzai's relationship to his brothers, Karzai's family and friends allude to his outcast childhood -- of the seven sons, he was not one of his father's favorites, they say. ''The mad one,'' that's how his father called him. The pet name stuck. A quiet boy, a dreamer, an odd one who could scare the other boys with his strange faces and moods, who loved to jump on his horse in jeans and cowboy boots and ride around as if in an American movie. 
 Amin Arsala, an avuncular former diplomat and adviser to Karzai who considered running for president, often warned Karzai about his brothers ruining his reputation. But either he cannot or will not stand up to them. There's a revolving door of diplomats, politicians and tribal leaders who all see Karzai, complain about his brothers and then leave, knowing he'll do nothing.
 Qayum, an older brother, has spent most of his life in America running Afghan restaurants and, during the days of jihad, he introduced Karzai to U.S. government officials. He is a political guru for Karzai, though he complains Karzai doesn't listen to him. He resigned as a member of Parliament for Kandahar and spends much of his time in Saudi Arabia, trying to bring the Taliban in from the cold. Mahmoud is the hotblooded business mogul, vice chairman of the Afghanistan Chamber of Commerce. He says he wants to promote free-market capitalism and complained to me one morning at his home in Kabul that his brother doesn't understand economics and can't run the government. ''It's mujahedin,'' he told me, ''it's personal relationships, cash basis, no institutions.''
 Many Afghans consider Mahmoud a bully who has muscled his way into the biggest business projects. He has 50 percent of Afghanistan's Toyota distributions by way of Jack Kemp, who introduced Mahmoud to Toyota executives. Karzai was unhappy about his family's involvement in such dealings, recalled Zalmay Khalilzad, who was the American ambassador at the time, adding, ''He had the Japanese ambassador summoned to the palace to tell him, 'Don't give the dealership to my brother Mahmoud.' '' But the Japanese listened to Kemp, not Karzai. Mahmoud is a major shareholder in Kabul Bank and, according to The New York Times, purchased the shares with a loan issued by the bank's founder. And he persuaded the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a U.S. government agency, to offer him loans for a real estate development in Kandahar that everyone considers at once lovely and dodgy. Nice homes, grounds, guards, school. But it was government land purchased by the Karzais at $250 a jereb and sold at $28,000 a jereb. 
 Karzai's response? ''My brother is an American businessman,'' he told me. ''Business has got nothing to do with me. I don't know if he has shares in the Kabul Bank, but if he has, what can I do?'' This habit of saying ''What can I do?'' is precisely what has undermined Karzai among many Afghans. 
 The brother who really gives the president heartburn is Ahmed Wali, his younger half-brother. A possibly apocryphal story that Afghans and diplomats love to repeat involves the president asking Ahmed Wali: ''Are you engaged with the drug networks? Are you aiding x, y and z?'' In the story, Ahmed Wali storms out of the meeting saying: ''Well, Hamid, at least I'm only ruining Kandahar. You're ruining the whole country.''
 To me, Karzai claimed that after an article about his brother and drugs appeared in The New York Times: ''I called the U.S. government and intelligence here to ask them, and they said: 'Totally wrong. We are sorry for that article.' '' (A State Department spokesman would not comment on whether this conversation even took place.)
 Then he added, ''So I've done my job on that.''
 Yet on every trip I've made to Kandahar, I have heard another story about Ahmed Wali and drugs. Some of the people who have recounted the incidents are now dead. Like Malim Akbar Khakrezwal, an elder of the Alakozai tribe. In 2006, he took me around the fertile lands of his district, which are now infiltrated by Taliban. He told me that when he was provincial-intelligence chief, he captured 1,400 kilograms of opium belonging to Jan Muhammad, then governor of Uruzgan and a very close friend of the president. Jan Muhammad told Akbar to release the opium, and he refused. ''My brother called me and said, 'We are not able to fight these big people,' '' Akbar told me. '' 'We are weak. Release them.' So I went to Ahmed Wali and said: 'You are my commander; what should I do with this opium? Should I give it back to Jan Muhammad?' 'Yes. Give it back,' he said. Twenty days later I was released from my position.'' Last year he was assassinated. 
 A Western intelligence official who has spent much of the last seven years in Kandahar and, for obvious reasons, wanted to remain anonymous, told me: ''The Karzai family has opium and blood on their hands. They systematically install low-level officials up to provincial governors to make sure that, from the farm gate, in bulk, the opium is moved unfettered. When history analyzes this period and looks at this family, it will uncover a litany of extensive corruption that was tolerated because the West tolerated this family.''
 Perhaps. Or not. As many Afghans have pointed out, U.S. history is full of robber barons and of families who made their fortunes during Prohibition, and in the words of Ashraf Ghani ''turned very decent as families.''
 ''Karzai should see this as 'Godfather II,' '' a U.N. official says. ''You got to get out of the business and go legit.'' 
 This winter, as the stakes became higher and the new Obama administration appeared to snub Karzai, his theatrics began to take a more menacing turn. He was becoming less decisive and more distrustful of his advisers. He saw plots in every corner, interpreting the moves of Afghans, Americans and especially the British as proof that ''they'' were trying to unseat him. And in fact they were and maybe still are. The new U.S. ambassador, Karl Eikenberry, barely a month into his term, made a point of showing up at news conferences with other presidential candidates, including Ghani and Abdullah. Karzai threw a kind of presidential tantrum at his own press conference and accused the foreigners of intervening in Afghanistan's national sovereignty (which, as financiers, administrators and protectors, they do every day). ''That is of immense sensitivity to the people of Afghanistan and to myself, and that is something that we will fight tooth and nail,'' Karzai said.
 The American tactic seemingly worked. Afghans began talking overnight about how the Americans had adopted a new candidate -- either Ghani or Abdullah. And while few Afghans knew much about either rival, thanks to Karzai's anger at Eikenberry, the names of Ghani and Abdullah were mentioned over and over in the news.
 Paranoid people usually do, of course, have enemies. Diplomats smile over meals with Karzai, bring him gifts from abroad and then send reports home saying he's unsteady. One diplomat seasoned in the Middle East and Asia told me, ''He's the most conspiratorial leader I've ever met.'' Perhaps. But you have to see his presidency from Karzai's point of view. 
 If there was a clear turning point, a moment when the Karzai government began to lose its grip, it was in the spring of 2006. On a sunny morning at the end of that May, on the northern outskirts of Kabul, an American soldier in a convoy lost control of his truck and careered into rush-hour traffic. Five people were killed. Many more were wounded. Afghans began pelting the American vehicles with stones. The Americans fired in the air. By the time word spread across Kabul, the story had ballooned into a massacre of civilians by drunken American soldiers. Waves of young Afghan men set buildings ablaze, attacking anyone and anything associated with foreigners and the government. They shouted, ''Down with America,'' and ''Down with Karzai,'' as they burned a billboard-size portrait of the president. Even medical students joined the mob. The police were nowhere to be seen; or if they were, it was as ordinary rioters who'd thrown off their uniforms.
 The mob raged on for six hours. A dozen people were killed and a hundred wounded. The defense minister finally deployed troops onto the streets. Karzai ordered a curfew and went on TV to reassure the population. 
 Inside the Arg palace, no one was reassured, least of all Karzai. ''He was shocked at how vulnerable we all were,'' Jawed Ludin, then Karzai's chief of staff, told me not long ago. ''And he was angry with the Afghan police and international security forces.'' This wasn't the Taliban. This wasn't Pakistan. It was a public revolt. And there were no government institutions that could stop it. 
 Karzai began to suspect a plot to unseat him. ''He knew that Marshal Fahim was unhappy with him ever since he was removed as vice president and minister of defense,'' one palace official recalls. Karzai was desperate to find out whether the riots were spontaneous or whether Fahim orchestrated them. For hours on end, he sat in a room behind his office watching footage collected from various sources. Much of it showed the mob arriving at Parliament. Why, Karzai wondered, did Yunous Qanooni, the speaker of the Parliament, send out a delegation to negotiate with the rioters as if they were a legitimate group and not a bunch of hooligans? Qanooni and Fahim (both Tajiks from the Northern Alliance) must have been up to something. But what?
 ''Every Pashtun was convinced it was a Tajik plot led by the Northern Alliance,'' Ronald Neumann, the U.S. ambassador at the time, told me. Most Kabulis agreed. Some medical students, who happily participated in the mayhem, told me that Northern Alliance commanders were ''among us.'' A British adviser to the government told me: ''I was with Rabbani's son in his hotel while he claimed to be organizing the riots from his mobile phone and boasting about it. It was completely bizarre.'' Whether or not it was organized, the students and young men happily joined in the fray to let off four years of pent-up frustration. They were fed up with the arrogance of American soldiers. They were fed up with hearing about the billions of aid dollars that came to Afghanistan and went into the pockets of American contractors and their Afghan partners. And they were terrified by the return of the Taliban, not just in the south but sneaking around various neighborhoods of Kabul. 
 Karzai couldn't get a straight answer from anyone. And when he didn't get to the bottom of it, he suspected his own intelligence apparatus. Amrullah Saleh, his head of intelligence, had been Fahim's translator back in the anti-Soviet days of jihad. Saleh was America's man, not Karzai's choice. Frustrated and rash, Karzai questioned Saleh's loyalty in front of other officials. Saleh submitted his resignation (which was not accepted). It wasn't the first and certainly wouldn't be the last time Saleh tried to resign. 
 And what about the Americans? The C.I.A.'s station chief in Kabul at the time was a friend of Karzai's from their days together in the Uruzgan mountains fighting the Taliban. Karzai met with him and Ambassador Neumann. Karzai was livid and unnerved. If the riots were spontaneous, Karzai told them, he should resign. It means they don't want you here and they don't want me, and I don't want to remain the president. I want to leave.
 The station chief was firm, according to a source who was present. No, Mr. President, you are not leaving. 
 ''I felt really bad for him,'' Jawed Ludin recalled. Karzai was so alone. He continued to watch the riot footage in his back room, trying to glean the plot. ''I realized that, at that time, he had no dependable instrument of power,'' Ludin said. ''He didn't have the money, the police, the intelligence. He had nothing.'' 
 It was Karzai's Nixon moment. People inside and outside the palace spoke of life ''before the 8th of Jowza'' (the date of the riots) and ''after the 8th of Jowza.'' That is, before May 29, 2006, and after.
 Whom could he trust? All he could do was begin recasting the play, substituting Pashtun jihadi commanders for non-Pashtun ones. He began to surround himself with the former loyalists of his old friend Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. This was the same commander whom the Americans named, in 2003, as a ''specially designated global terrorist.'' This was the man who had recently declared himself an open ally of Al Qaeda. But while Karzai's new cohort might still have had loyalties to Hekmatyar, they could at least be organized, disciplined and trusted to a certain extent.
 The riots woke Karzai up to the fact that, in choosing not to have a political party, he had completely isolated himself. He had no constituency. He had thought he could be a symbol of unity for all Afghans, but even a Mandela or a Gandhi needed a party or a grass-roots movement. Karzai had little more than his own family and weekly video conferences with President George Bush. So the Pashtun jihadis gradually became his constituency and insurance policy.
 The riots coincided with the resurgence of the Taliban, the American withdrawal from the south and the slow arrival of disjointed NATO forces. Every NATO country came with its own mandate and its own rules of engagement. And most of them thought they were deploying to a peacekeeping mission. Meanwhile, elements in the Pakistani military-intelligence agency were sending in suicide bombers and Taliban foot soldiers to take over Kandahar, Helmand, Uruzgan, Zabul. Such a chaotic scene needed a firm, decisive and confident hand.
 In 2005 Sima Simar, the chairwoman of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission, who knew Karzai from exile days in Pakistan, along with Louise Arbour, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights, presented Karzai with a survey titled ''A Call for Justice.'' The findings were astounding. Seventy percent of Afghans said they had suffered direct losses, injuries and violations over two decades of war. They wanted war criminals brought to justice and barred from public office. Karzai told Arbour at the time: ''Madam High Commissioner, I know justice is very important. Human beings are prisoners of their memories. If you don't deal with them properly you cannot get rid of them.'' 
 ''He spoke like Mandela, Martin Luther King,'' recalled Nader Nadery, a member of the commission that had been fighting to get Karzai to support dealing with the crimes of the past. Karzai appointed a special committee to create an action plan for transitional justice -- including ministers and judicial advisers who would work alongside the U.N. By late 2006, they had arrived at a compromise plan. There would be a vetting process, truth commissions and even the possibility of tribunals.
 On Dec. 10, 2006, Karzai attended the international Human Rights Day event at the national television and radio hall in Kabul. Nadery showed a documentary in the middle of the event -- a collection of harrowing tales by survivors of war crimes from the last two decades. The film silenced the hall. Karzai then got up and set aside his prepared speech. 
 He spoke about the courage of a girl in the film who jumped from the fifth floor to save her honor because warlords wanted to rape her. He spoke of the mass graves and massacres and announced that he was launching the long-awaited action plan for peace, reconciliation and justice. And from now on, this day would be reserved to give dignity to the victims. 
 Karzai then moved from the sufferings of the past to the present. Not only did he have no power to stop the warlords, he said, ''we can't prevent the terrorists from coming from Pakistan. And we can't prevent the coalition from bombing the civilians. And our children are dying because of this.'' He told the story of a 2-year-old girl from Kandahar who'd just been brought to the palace. A NATO airstrike killed her entire family and left her paralyzed. The toll of the year, his helplessness, the dying children -- it was all too much. The president's voice broke, his lips trembled and he began to cry. He took a handkerchief from under his glass to dry his eyes. ''Cruelty at the highest level,'' he quivered. ''The cruelty is too much.''
 The president, too, was suffering. Everyone in the hall was weeping.
 A few days later, Human Rights Watch released a report documenting 22 years of war crimes by the communists, the mujahedin and the Taliban. The list included current and former government officials like Rabbani, Fahim, Dostum.
 The warlords smelled a plot. Using their parliamentary power, they drafted legislation to give themselves amnesty for all past crimes. They bused their supporters in from all over the country. Ten thousand people gathered in Ghazi Stadium, the site of the Taliban's notorious public executions. They waved placards, ''Long Live Dostum,'' ''Death to America,'' ''Death to Human Rights,'' ''Death to Dogwashers.'' Most of the leaders of the civil-war factions showed up for the fun.
 ''After that, Karzai became afraid,'' Nadery said. Though he never rejected the amnesty law, he also never signed it. It was another turning point in Karzai's presidency. Rangin Spanta, who was part of the transitional-justice action committee and is now foreign minister, told me he tried to resign: ''Karzai rejected my resignation. 'You must be quiet,' he said. 'Let us look forward, because the balance of power is not in our interest.' '' Maybe. But there are more Afghans who were victims of the warlords than who supported them. And most of those warlords -- Sayyaf, Dostum, Fahim, Khalili, Mohaqiq -- went on to join Karzai's presidential re-election campaign.
 When I asked Karzai about the return of warlords to power, he said: ''It's a great thing to talk about the kind of justice that is ideal and that we all should have. But do we have the means? Do we have the luxury of that?''
 By late 2007, Karzai's turn toward accommodation with warlords, tribalism and semiretired jihadis -- and away from the international community -- seems to have been completed. The palace had become like a Shakespearean stage, its officials, like so many Iagos, filling Karzai's mind with plots and treachery. The British and the Americans, worried that Afghanistan was sinking beyond repair, conceived the position of a civilian czar who could coordinate the U.N. mission and the NATO mission and possibly bring some order into the chaos of the Arg palace. The man they chose was the British diplomat Paddy Ashdown, who had been the international community's high representative to Bosnia until 2006. Karzai was at first intrigued by the idea and even accepted it. But the Iagos in the palace feared they would lose their gatekeeping status and the money they earned from it. They persuaded Karzai that the choice of Ashdown, who was born in British India to a colonial family and who had served as a British spy, was evidence of a British conspiracy.
 Karzai has a complicated relationship with the British. He favors English shoes. He was a fan of ''Last of the Summer Wine,'' a three-decades-long BBC sitcom about the madcap adventures of elderly friends in the Yorkshire countryside. He has a romantic fascination with British royalty and rearranged his schedule to attend the Prince of Wales's 60th birthday. Most of the other attendees were real royalty. ''He thinks the Prince of Wales is a sensitive man, who understands him and Islam and the region,'' one diplomat explained. On another occasion he visited the prince's house in Scotland, seizing the chance to break out of his palace prison and stride across the moors for hours. Perhaps it reminded him of his days at college in Simla, where he used to walk for miles across the Indian hills. 
 ''Maybe he just pretends to be a great lover of English culture,'' the diplomat told me. ''He thinks they're in league with the Pakistanis and that they are two-faced and tricky and if they wanted to they could defeat the Taliban but they don't because they want to keep their troops there.'' 
 Karzai believes that evidence for a British conspiracy can be found in the story of Musa Qala, a collection of villages in the deserts of Helmand and a crossroads in the drug-transport routes. The tale has become a ''Rashomon''-like parable. For Karzai it is a story of British duplicity. For the British it is a story of Karzai's treachery and American bullying. And for the Americans it's a story of European appeasement and Karzai's madness. 
 In October 2006, after months of fighting between the British and Taliban that had left everyone exhausted and bloodied, all sides agreed on a truce. The British and the Taliban pulled back. The elders promised to keep the Taliban out. But almost immediately there were problems. The Taliban began creeping in. The town fell again. The Americans accused the British of wimping out of a fight. They pressured Karzai to distance himself from the whole scenario.
 Gen. David Richards, the British officer in charge of NATO forces in Afghanistan, was caught in the middle of it all. Karzai liked and trusted Richards and appreciated his style. ''He'd sometimes get me over three or four times a day to talk about all sorts of things, not just military,'' Richards recalled. Karzai gave Richards and Helmand's governor, Muhammad Daud, who helped organize the truce, his blessing. ''The U.S. military and, I suspect, the C.I.A. were pretty hostile to it from the outset,'' Richards told me. Gen. Dan McNeill of the U.S. Army made no secret of his feelings. Later, when he replaced Richards, he vowed that there'd be no ''Musa Qalas'' on his watch. And to drive the point home, McNeill began bombing targets around the district as soon as he took over from Richards.
 Karzai was, of course, caught in the middle between the British and the Americans. The Americans had more money, more troops, more power. To make matters worse, on the heels of Musa Qala, General Richards flew to Islamabad to see Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf. ''I delivered Musharraf a pretty sharp message that we expected him to do more to help, but I think Karzai believed that I was getting too close to Musharraf,'' Richards told me. Richards began passing notes between the two hostile presidents, trying to get them to work with each other.
 The palace advisers seized on those visits as proof that the British were going to sell out Afghanistan. They told Karzai that Richards and Musharraf didn't talk about Afghanistan at all. They talked about London and terrorism. Look at Helmand, they'd say. It used to be so peaceful. Until the British forced you to remove Sher Muhammad Akhundzada. Whom did they replace him with? Muhammad Daud, plucked from the National Security Council. Who constructed the National Security Council? The British. Who paid for it? The British. Who has advisers there? The British. 
 The advisers pushed Karzai closer to the edge. Look around you, closer to home, they said. Is that not a coup in the works? Jawed Ludin, the chief of staff, and Hanif Atmar, minister of education, had both studied in Britain. They have nightly dinners and meetings with the minister of defense, the minister of foreign affairs. . . .
 One day in front of several people inside the palace, Karzai turned accusingly on Ludin and Atmar: There's news the British are conspiring against us, against me personally. There's news that you are meeting very frequently. What is happening? Why are you meeting?
 They replied that they were just getting together socially. 
 Karzai said he didn't believe them, according to an Afghan official present at the incident.
 The next day Karzai regretted his words, as he often does. He apologized. It was too late. Both men submitted their resignations. Ludin became ambassador to Norway. Atmar stayed on as minister for education, but he and the president hardly spoke for months until Karzai appointed him as the new minister of the interior. These rifts have since healed and Karzai's men have rallied for the presidential campaign.
 ''Every conceivable lie is told to the president to alienate him from his friends,'' Ashraf Ghani told me. ''He accused me in front of Secretary Rice and the British secretary of joining Ashdown in a conspiracy to unseat him. I had a family illness in Dubai around the clock. I met with Paddy Ashdown once in my life. Yet the Afghan government for a week was concentrating on an alleged conspiracy.''
 By the end of 2007, Karzai's worst fears seemed to come to fruition. The new governor of Helmand, an old friend of Karzai's father, claimed to have uncovered a plot by the British for a Taliban training camp. The allegations were so far-fetched that the entire diplomatic community began to think Karzai had gone mad. In reality, Michael Semple, then the European Union's political adviser, had come up with a plan for a Taliban re-education camp in Helmand, and several of Karzai's advisers had agreed to it. Yet, in front of his security team, Karzai accused the British of total treachery.
 According to one diplomat, the British responded that they had been trying to pursue reconciliation and had documents approving the project signed by Afghanistan's ministry of the interior and by its intelligence service. Karzai's advisers squirmed and said nothing. Apparently no one had dared to tell Karzai about the camp. 
 The damage was done. Enraged, Karzai had Michael Semple and Mervyn Patterson, two of the foreigners most knowledgeable about Afghanistan, thrown out of the country and an Afghan general imprisoned. 
 I asked Karzai if he really believes, as so many Afghans do, that the British and Americans don't want the Taliban defeated. ''I don't know,'' he said. ''But I wonder. After all, I am also an Afghan. So I have to believe in what the majority of the Afghan people believe in.'' And that the British want the Taliban to take over Helmand and Kandahar? ''The Taliban are already in Helmand,'' he said with a knowing look. 
 ''In my experience of working in 21 countries, one thing I've learned,'' the American election guru James Carville told me over the phone in his Southern drawl, ''unpopular incumbents do not do well in anything approaching a fair election.'' Carville has taken on the job of consulting for Ashraf Ghani's campaign. It's not for the money, he told me. It's more for sentimental reasons. ''I really want to help,'' he said. ''This is an instance where you know in your heart the difference in Afghanistan in five years under Ashraf or under Karzai will be really profound for the average person's life.''
 The consensus in Afghanistan is that if the Aug. 20 elections are somehow fair -- which is impossible to guarantee -- there will most likely be a runoff in a second round. That is what the opposition is counting on. Despite the belief across the country that the Americans or someone else will decide who becomes president, I found people in remote corners campaigning for Abdullah, Ghani, Karzai and others. 
 Karzai remains well ahead. What happens if he wins? ''What will you do then?'' I asked an American working for the Obama administration. 
 ''The first step is to shift away from the weekly pat on the back he got from Bush but not be as removed as Obama was,'' he said. ''Then if we can reduce his paranoia and if he has a renewed mandate and if we get the good Karzai, the charming Karzai. . . . '' It was a lot of ifs. 
 As for Karzai, he has patched up his relations with his ministers, his staff, his enemies and various opponents, promising more positions than he can possibly fill. What is most disturbing to Afghans, however, is the criminal personalities he has brought into his campaign. They dominate both politics and the economy: the glitzy new Kabul neighborhood of Sherpur, with its ''narcotecture'' palaces, has become their home and the symbol of their power. In Sherpur's shadow, as I sloshed through the streets of the other Kabul, past refugees in muddy tents and a woman left like detritus on the road, quivering, I wondered how Afghanistan's warlords, steeped in the jihadi tradition of intimidation, could ever bring peace, or economic hope, to the Afghan people. ''With enough resources,'' the American official said, ''a lot of these guys can clean up their act.''
 That is not the belief of Dr. Azam Dadfar, the minister of higher education and one of the few psychiatrists in the country trained in psychoanalysis. In the 1980s he ran a trauma clinic in the Peshawar refugee camps. Today, he said, out of these decades of war, a new Afghan character type has emerged -- a borderline personality characteristic of jihadis. ''Multiple-personality disorder is a coping mechanism,'' he said, speaking about the whole generation of men who grew up in jihad. ''A young man who lost his father, his home, he looks to become the cleverest, the most criminal, the lion. In the jungle, there are no values but self-preservation. There's no law. And this character learns to lie even to himself.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ISOLATION: President Hamid Karzai and advisers at the Arg presidential palace, which Karzai rarely leaves. (pg.MM26)
LOYALISTS: Karzai has become heavily dependent on his inner circle. (pg.MM29)
THE CANDIDATES: Posters in Kabul for presidential candidates in the Aug. 20 elections in Afghanistan. (pg.MM30)
ABDULLAH FOR PRESIDENT: Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, a leading candidate, campaigning in the Panjshir Valley. (pg.MM32)
GHANI FOR PRESIDENT: Ashraf Ghani, a former Afghan finance minister and adviser to the World Bank, campaigning in Herat. (pg.MM33)
 FAMILY AFFAIRS: Elders beneath a painting of President Karzai's father, waiting to meet the president's brother, head of the provincial council in Kandahar. (pg.MM35) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY ADDARIO/VII NETWORK, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



243 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: Is Obama Punking Us?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
''AUGUST is a challenging time to be president,'' said Andrew Card, the former Bush White House chief of staff, as he offered unsolicited advice to his successors in a television interview last week. ''I think you have to expect the unexpected.'' 
 He should know. Thursday was the eighth anniversary of ''Bin Laden Determined to Strike in U.S.,'' the President's Daily Brief that his boss ignored while on vacation in Crawford. Aug. 29 marks the fourth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina's strike on the Louisiana coast, which his boss also ignored while on vacation in Crawford.
 So do have a blast in Martha's Vineyard, President Obama. 
 Even as we wait for some unexpected disaster to strike, Beltway omens for the current White House are grim. Obama's poll numbers are approaching free fall, we are told. If he fails on health care, he's toast. Indeed, many of the bloviators who spot a fatal swoon in the Obama presidency are the same doomsayers who in August 2008 were predicting his Election Day defeat because he couldn't ''close the deal'' and clear the 50 percent mark in matchups with John McCain. 
 Here are two not very daring predictions: Obama will get some kind of health care reform done come fall. His poll numbers will not crater any time soon.
 Yet there is real reason for longer-term worry in the form of a persistent, anecdotal drift toward disillusionment among some of the president's supporters. And not merely those on the left. This concern was perhaps best articulated by an Obama voter, a real estate agent in Virginia, featured on the front page of The Washington Post last week. ''Nothing's changed for the common guy,'' she said. ''I feel like I've been punked.'' She cited in particular the billions of dollars in bailouts given to banks that still ''act like they're broke.''
 But this mood isn't just about the banks, Public Enemy No. 1. What the Great Recession has crystallized is a larger syndrome that Obama tapped into during the campaign. It's the sinking sensation that the American game is rigged -- that, as the president typically put it a month after his inauguration, the system is in hock to ''the interests of powerful lobbyists or the wealthiest few'' who have ''run Washington far too long.'' He promised to smite them.
 No president can do that alone, let alone in six months. To make Obama's goal more quixotic, the ailment that he diagnosed is far bigger than Washington and often beyond politics' domain. What disturbs Americans of all ideological persuasions is the fear that almost everything, not just government, is fixed or manipulated by some powerful hidden hand, from commercial transactions as trivial as the sales of prime concert tickets to cultural forces as pervasive as the news media. 
 It's a cynicism confirmed almost daily by events. Last week Brian Stelter of The Times reported that the corporate bosses of MSNBC and Fox News, Jeffrey Immelt of General Electric and Rupert Murdoch of News Corporation, had sanctioned their lieutenants to broker what a G.E. spokesman called a new ''level of civility'' between their brawling cable stars, Keith Olbermann and Bill O'Reilly. A Fox spokesman later confirmed to Howard Kurtz of The Post that ''there was an agreement'' at least at the corporate level. Olbermann said he was a ''party to no deal,'' and in any event what looked like a temporary truce ended after The Times article was published. But the whole scrape only fed legitimate suspicions on the right and left alike that even their loudest public voices can be silenced if the business interests of the real American elite decree it.
 You might wonder whether networks could some day cut out the middlemen -- anchors -- and just put covert lobbyists and publicists on the air to deliver the news. Actually, that has already happened. The most notorious example was the flock of retired military officers who served as television ''news analysts'' during the Iraq war while clandestinely lobbying for defense contractors eager to sell their costly wares to the Pentagon.
 The revelation of that scandal did not end the practice. Last week MSNBC had to apologize for deploying the former Newsweek writer Richard Wolffe as a substitute host for Olbermann without mentioning his new career as a corporate flack. Wolffe might still be anchoring on MSNBC if the blogger Glenn Greenwald hadn't called attention to his day job. MSNBC assured its viewers that there were no conflicts of interest, but we must take that on faith, since we still don't know which clients Wolffe represents as a senior strategist for his firm, Public Strategies, whose chief executive is the former Bush White House spin artist, Dan Bartlett. 
 Let's presume that Wolffe's clients do not include the corporate interests with billions at stake in MSNBC and Washington's Topic A, the health care debate. If so, he's about the only player in the political-corporate culture who's not riding that gravy train.
 As Democrats have pointed out, the angry hecklers disrupting town-hall meetings convened by members of Congress are not always ordinary citizens engaging in spontaneous grass-roots protests or even G.O.P. operatives, but proxies for corporate lobbyists. One group facilitating the screamers is FreedomWorks, which is run by the former Congressman Dick Armey, now a lobbyist at the DLA Piper law firm. Medicines Company, a global pharmaceutical business, has paid DLA Piper more than $6 million in lobbying fees in the five years Armey has worked there.
 But the Democratic members of Congress those hecklers assailed can hardly claim the moral high ground. Their ties to health care interests are merely more discreet and insidious. As Congressional Quarterly reported last week, industry groups contributed almost $1.8 million in the first six months of 2009 alone to the 18 House members of both parties supervising health care reform, Nancy Pelosi and Steny Hoyer among them.
 Then there are the 52 conservative Blue Dog Democrats, who have balked at the public option for health insurance. Their cash intake from insurers and drug companies outpaces their Democratic peers by an average of 25 percent, according to The Post. And let's not forget the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee, which has raked in nearly $500,000 from a single doctor-owned hospital in McAllen, Tex. -- the very one that Obama has cited as a symbol of runaway medical costs ever since it was profiled in The New Yorker this spring.
 In this maze of powerful moneyed interests, it's not clear who any American in either party should or could root for. The bipartisan nature of the beast can be encapsulated by the remarkable progress of Billy Tauzin, the former Louisiana congressman. Tauzin was a founding member of the Blue Dog Democrats in 1994. A year later, he bolted to the Republicans. Now he is chief of PhRMA, the biggest pharmaceutical trade group. In the 2008 campaign, Obama ran a television ad pillorying Tauzin for his role in preventing Medicare from negotiating for lower drug prices. Last week The Los Angeles Times reported -- and The New York Times confirmed -- that Tauzin, an active player in White House health care negotiations, had secured a behind-closed-doors flip-flop, enlisting the administration to push for continued protection of drug prices. Now we know why the president has ducked his campaign pledge to broadcast such negotiations on C-Span.
 The making of legislative sausage is never pretty. The White House has to give to get. But the cynicism being whipped up among voters is justified. Unlike Hillary Clinton, whose chief presidential campaign strategist unapologetically did double duty as a high-powered corporate flack, Obama promised change we could actually believe in. 
 His first questionable post-victory step was to assemble an old boys' club of Robert Rubin proteges and Goldman-Citi alumni as the White House economic team, including a Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, who failed in his watchdog role at the New York Fed as Wall Street's latest bubble first inflated and then burst. The questions about Geithner's role in adjudicating the subsequent bailouts aren't going away, and neither is the angry public sense that the fix is still in. We just learned that nine of those bailed-out banks -- which in total received $175 billion of taxpayers' money, but as yet have repaid only $50 billion -- are awarding a total of $32.6 billion in bonuses for 2009.
 It's in this context that Obama can't afford a defeat on health care. A bill will pass in a Democrat-controlled Congress. What matters is what's in it. The final result will be a CAT scan of those powerful Washington interests he campaigned against, revealing which have been removed from the body politic (or at least reduced) and which continue to metastasize. The Wall Street regulatory reform package Obama pushes through, or doesn't, may render even more of a verdict on his success in changing the system he sought the White House to reform. 
 The best political news for the president remains the Republicans. It's a measure of how out of touch G.O.P. leaders like Mitch McConnell and John Boehner are that they keep trying to scare voters by calling Obama a socialist. They have it backward. The larger fear is that Obama might be just another corporatist, punking voters much as the Republicans do when they claim to be all for the common guy. If anything, the most unexpected -- and challenging -- event that could rock the White House this August would be if the opposition actually woke up.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); HURRICANES (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



244 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: While Regulators Slept

BYLINE: By PAUL M. BARRETT. 
Paul M. Barrett is an assistant managing editor of BusinessWeek.

 BODY:
IN FED WE TRUST
 Ben Bernanke's War on the Great Panic
 By David Wessel
 323 pp. Crown Business. $26.99
 Forget Stephen King. For readers determined to decipher the baffling collapse of Wall Street, David Wessel's account of what has transpired behind closed doors in Washington over the past couple of years provides a tale that's nothing short of hair-raising.
 Wessel, economics editor at The Wall Street Journal, reveals in scary detail how unprepared the politicians and regulators truly were for the calamity, and how close we came to a depression that could easily have rivaled what the nation saw in the 1930s. 
 Packaged as a book about Ben S. Bernanke, the former Princeton professor with the bad luck to assume the chairmanship of the Federal Reserve just in time for the crisis, ''In Fed We Trust'' actually offers a group portrait of the figures responsible for responding to the housing meltdown, credit freeze, stock market crash and economic slump. Wessel -- with whom I worked in The Journal's Washington office in the 1990s -- puts us in the midnight meetings and on the endless conference calls during which Bernanke; former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson; his successor, Timothy Geithner; and a platoon of aides flail and bicker. With terrifying frequency, they don't understand what's going on around them or what to do about it. 
 In Wessel's judicious view, these men made some good decisions, like financing the absorption of the mortally wounded investment bank Bear Stearns by a larger competitor. They also made terrible ones, like letting the equally decrepit Lehman Brothers disintegrate into bankruptcy, which helped set off worldwide financial hysteria. Over all, the author praises Bernanke for overcoming his cautious nature when confronted with an epic disaster. The unassuming scholar threw out the Federal Reserve rule book, flooded the markets with fresh cash and vowed to do ''whatever it takes'' to stave off bank runs and bread lines. So far, he has helped prevent the very worst that might have happened. Whether history deems Bernanke's mixed record a success or failure, Wessel correctly notes, will depend heavily on how long it takes the economy to emerge from recession and how severe the damage turns out to be, as measured in crippled companies, foreclosed homes and laid-off workers. 
 Meanwhile, ''In Fed We Trust'' adds illuminating evidence to any effort to piece together how we got into our present bind in the first place. Other books have explored the corruption of mortgage lending and Wall Street's recklessness. Wessel's reporting shows how years of hostility to government oversight -- taken to extremes by Bernanke's predecessor as Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan -- left the institutions designed to check financial irresponsibility so unequal to their task.
 An example: As once-powerful investment banks crumbled, it became clear that the Securities and Exchange Commission, charged with supervising these businesses, had never bothered to scrutinize the hundreds of billions of dollars of esoteric securities the bankers had accumulated. When the home mortgages anchoring the securities went bad, the banks suffered grave losses and could no longer obtain the short-term loans they needed to survive. The S.E.C., drained and demoralized throughout the Bush administration, remained willfully blind to all of it. Wessel brings this dereliction to life by reconstructing scenes like one in March 2008, when Geithner, then chief of the Fed's New York outpost, convened a 4:45 a.m. phone conference with Bernanke, Paulson and a crew of other officials. The topic was the fate of Bear Stearns, but no one bothered to awaken the notoriously ineffectual S.E.C. chairman, Christopher Cox. ''Top officials at both the Fed and the Treasury had decided the S.E.C. and its chairman weren't up to the job of coping with the collapse of an investment bank,'' Wessel observes. Hours later, an S.E.C. aide sent plaintive e-mail messages, begging someone who had been on the call to contact Cox and fill him in.
 Also alarmingly absent from critical debates was George W. Bush. Wessel reinforces the impression that the former president failed to engage with the financial crisis, with devastating accounts of White House gatherings where Bush displayed little interest in the debacle. At one meeting on the initial $85 billion bailout of the insurance giant American International Group, Bush blandly told Bernanke and Paulson, ''If you are comfortable with this, then I am comfortable with it.'' 
 If there's a villain looming over the Wessel version of why the government was so overwhelmed, it is Greenspan, who led the Federal Reserve from 1987 until 2006. As Wessel explains, Greenspan's strong libertarian leanings led him to scorn the ability of government employees to keep track of bonus-crazed bankers and traders. Greenspan preached a free-market theory that the self-interest of large financial players would cause them to drive hard bargains with one another and prevent the sort of mischief that could bring markets crashing down. He encouraged the ''financial engineering'' that created securities no one fully understood, and he helped shield the mad scientists of Wall Street from government restraints. 
 Then, in October 2008, Greenspan admitted to a House committee he had been, well, totally wrong: ''I made a mistake in presuming that the self-interest of organizations, specifically banks and others, were such that they were best capable of protecting their own shareholders.''
 Now the pressing question is whether Bernanke will learn from his predecessor's mistakes. The Obama administration has proposed a regulatory overhaul that would codify in some ways the extraordinary powers that Bernanke and the Fed have exercised on an ad hoc basis over the past 18 months. Skeptics ask whether the changes go far enough to assure that public-spirited officials will have the ability to control the endlessly inventive ranks of bond speculators and derivatives wizards. Wessel points out that while Bernanke deserves credit for ultimately taking bold actions in the breach, he ''remains reluctant to criticize Greenspan publicly.''
 Maybe he's just very polite. But the fact remains that Bernanke and his colleagues didn't see the crisis coming and for too long ignored those who did. Wessel makes a persuasive case that if our economic overseers do not renounce -- clearly and openly -- the lackadaisical deference to Wall Street that characterized the Greenspan era, they risk not anticipating the next crisis and determining how to avoid it. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHOUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); WRITERS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FORECLOSURE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); STEPHEN KING (72%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: In Fed We Trust (Book); In Fed We Trust (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



245 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: 'Millionaire,' Far From Its Final Answer

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
WHEN Regis Philbin sat in a movie house in Manhattan watching ''Slumdog Millionaire'' last year, the quiz-show scenes took him back. 
 ''I kept saying to myself: 'Did I do this? Yeah, I did this.' ''
 He is about to do it again.
 A decade after changing the landscape of American television by introducing the idea that unscripted shows could transform prime time, ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' returns to ABC Sunday night for an 11-night tournament. The run will amount to both a birthday celebration and a possible comeback for the American prime-time version of the show.
 Mr. Philbin will be in his familiar blue chair, asking contestants for their final answers, accompanied by the same dark lighting and ominously dramatic music. 
 Did the Oscar-winning film play any role in the revival? Probably, said Michael Davies, then and now the show's executive producer. But he said the anniversary itself may have been reason enough -- that and the fact that it's summer again. ABC is looking for programming, and the qualities that got ''Millionaire'' on the air the first time are just as appealing now.
 ''I was hired in 1999 to find a show we could make at half the cost'' of a scripted series, Mr. Davies said. He made contact with a young agent in London named Ben Silverman, who was already getting in position to acquire the rights to British television formats for use in America. 
 Mr. Silverman, who has since built a career as a producer and executive (after running NBC's entertainment division for two years, he will be leaving this fall to form an independent company in partnership with the media and Internet company IAC/InterActive), had already sought out the ''Millionaire'' rights for his agency, William Morris.
 ''I heard the title before it went on the air, and I thought, who doesn't?'' Mr. Silverman said. ''I believed the idea was made for America.'' He approached the show's top executive, Paul Smith, and when Mr. Davies came calling, they made a deal.
 Of course, back in the United States, the notion of a prime-time game show seemed ''totally old-fashioned, like something out of the '50s,'' Mr. Davies said. 
 Mr. Philbin remembered television from the '50s. When word got to his network, ABC, that ''Millionaire'' was going into production, Mr. Philbin eagerly lobbied to serve as host. 
 He was so enthusiastic about the show's prospects in America that he appeared on ''Late Show With David Letterman'' and declared -- with what turned out to be uncanny prescience -- that by hosting it he would be ''the savior of the ABC network.'' On the air he proclaimed, ''I am going to resurrect ABC!'' 
 But few others voiced public support, as the prevailing wisdom at the time was that game shows did not appeal to younger viewers. ABC itself seemed to be almost sneaking it onto its schedule, with the lowest of expectations. The original series was 13 half-hour shows. When 7.5 million viewers tuned in for the Monday-night premiere, everyone involved was amazed. (It was an added bonus that the big winner that first night only took home $4,000.) 
 By Wednesday, only its third night on the air, the show made national news when a contestant was deemed wrong by producers even though he gave the right answer (Huron) to the question, ''Which Great Lake after Superior has the largest area?'' Producers originally believed the right answer was Lake Michigan, but caught the mistake and allowed the contestant back on. The mix-up didn't hurt ratings, though: 11.5 million people had tuned in to watch that episode.
 ''I think that mistake put us over the edge,'' Mr. Davies said. By Sunday of the first week the audience hit 15 million. Mr. Davies recalled leaving his apartment in SoHo to walk to a drugstore to buy some deodorant and ''people in the street were talking about a question from the night before.'' He added, ''It was surreal.''
 When ABC brought ''Millionaire'' back that November, it was expanded to an hour, though still presented in a tournament format, meaning that it was broadcast on consecutive nights rather than once a week. By then it was routinely the top-rated show every night; one contestant even walked off with a million-dollar check.
 When ''Millionaire'' returned in January it was on three nights a week, and the three weekly editions were the top shows just about every week. For Mr. Philbin it was a life-changing experience; even his clothes became a phenomenon. ''It was the color-on-color shirts and ties,'' Mr. Philbin said. ''They were everywhere.''
 It wasn't all cupcakes however. Mr. Philbin was driven half-mad by the frequent breakdowns of the computers contestants used. ''I'm a live guy,'' he said. ''I never know what I'm going to say. And it was always, 'We've got to call the computer guy.' ''
 Worse was the rule that allowed contestants to take as much time as they wanted before answering. ''A woman from Illinois,'' Mr. Philbin recalled, ''she goes 52 minutes on one question! I'm sitting there, saying, 'My wife wasn't pregnant when I left!' ''
 The woman finally answered; she was wrong. ''They actually had to carry her out of there,'' Mr. Philbin said.
 What ''Millionaire'' started was not really a game show wave. Other networks immediately put out their copies -- ''21'' on NBC, the memorable ''Greed'' on Fox -- but they were short-lived. The real surge came from across the ocean.
 Before ''Millionaire,'' shows were rarely bought in Europe and transplanted to American networks. But ''Millionaire'' was quickly followed by ''Survivor'' and ''Big Brother,'' and eventually ''American Idol'' and ''Dancing With the Stars,'' all of which (except for ''Survivor,'' which made its name in Sweden) were big hits in Britain (where ''Idol'' was called ''Pop Idol'') before they came here. 
 Mr. Davies said that while he believes that the breakthrough of ''Millionaire'' may have expedited the British reality invasion, the economics of reality television would have forced the situation regardless.
 ''I think 'Millionaire' showed the business rationale,'' he said. The programs were supposed to provide half the rating or more for 75 percent of the price. ''Then the shows started getting these massive ratings.''
 The question that has always surrounded ''Millionaire'' is whether ABC got hooked on what competitors called the ''ratings crack'' it provided and ran the phenomenon into the ground by scheduling it four times a week at its peak. Certainly the show flamed out quickly once its popularity began to fade. By November 2001 it had been cut from four times a week to two and its audience, which had hit a high of 29 million in 2000, was down to 10 million. In May of 2002 it was officially canceled. 
 At one point Mr. Davies thought that losing the intensity of the tournament format hurt the show's longevity, but he has since concluded that he may have been wrong. ''We never would have gotten to 363 shows in prime time'' by staging occasional tournaments, he said. ''Millionaire'' also wound up making more money in a two-year period than any other show in ABC history. 
 The success also spawned a daytime syndicated version that started in 2002. Hosted by Meredith Vieira, it recently won an order for an eighth season. 
 Worldwide the show continues to be one of the most successful formats ever invented. At its high point versions of the game appeared in more than 150 countries. Now owned by Sony Television, it is currently on the air in 40 countries -- and was seen last year by 2 billion viewers.
 And it's not as though the show's cultural impact has faded. That was evident in one of television's most memorable moments last fall, when Tina Fey, portraying Sarah Palin on a ''Saturday Night Live'' sketch, responded to a question that flummoxed her by saying, ''I'd like to use one of my lifelines.'' 
 So what are the expectations for the 10th-anniversary prime-time version? First, Mr. Davies said, viewers can expect to see some changes in the format, especially if they have not been watching the syndicated version.
 One big one: an additional lifeline has been added. Contestants can now call on an expert for help. One other change: no more 52-minute waits. Each round, contestants are given time limits that expand slightly as the prize money goes up.
 And though both Mr. Davies and Mr. Philbin agree that the show went awry when it started using celebrities as contestants (the usual ploy to save a ratings-challenged unscripted series), the new version will have one celebrity per show, who will get a chance at the end to answer a question for charity.
 Is there any chance the magic will return 10 years later? Even an incurable enthusiast like Mr. Philbin conceded that was doubtful. ''It can't be,'' he said. ''But it can still attract an audience.''
 Mr. Davies said: ''I think it could be very successful as a once-a-year thing. That's really the interest here. At worst we're hoping for a great celebration of 10 years. I'm sure it's something ABC can do every summer.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top left, Regis Philbin quizzing Hillary Daw, a contestant on ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' in its late-'90s heyday. Top right, cast members of ''Survivor: Gabon-- Earth's Last Eden,'' one of many unscripted series that hit prime time in the wake of ''Millionaire.'' Above, Mr. Philbin returns in ABC's revival of ''Millionaire.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARA MELIN/ABC)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONTY BRINTON/CBS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE FENN/ABC)(pg. AR18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (71%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (53%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (90%); BEN SILVERMAN (76%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); EARTH (59%) UNITED STATES (93%); GABON (59%)

TITLE: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (TV Program); Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



246 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and South African Discuss Somalia and Sudan

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: CAPE TOWN 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Saturday that the United States was ready ''to put meat on the bone'' in its relations with South Africa after discussing regional issues, like the instability in Sudan and the war in Somalia, with Jacob Zuma, South Africa's new president.
 The talks were part of a broader American effort to revive the friendship between the United States and South Africa, which was particularly strong when Mrs. Clinton's husband was president, but had grown frosty in recent years. 
 Mr. Zuma, who became president in May after surviving a corruption scandal, seemed to reciprocate, saying that South Africa wants to take its relationship to the United States to ''a higher level.''
 South Africa is a powerhouse in Africa, with an impressive mineral-driven economy and considerable clout across the continent. Mrs. Clinton said she wanted the nation to play a larger role not just in Africa but on the global stage as well, helping in the battle against climate change, for instance. 
 South Africa is the second stop on her seven-nation Africa tour, and Mrs. Clinton has continued to emphasize the ''deep and personal'' connection of President Obama, whose father was Kenyan, to the continent.
 On Saturday, Mrs. Clinton and her entourage left Pretoria, South Africa's capital, shortly after dawn and flew to Durban, a beach town on the Atlantic coast, to meet Mr. Zuma. 
 Mrs. Clinton's aides said that it had been exceedingly difficult getting on Mr. Zuma's schedule, and it was only at the last minute that the Clinton team detoured several hundred miles to see Mr. Zuma in a nondescript room at the Durban airport.
 Relations between the countries had become strained in recent years in good part over former President Thabo Mbeki's stance on AIDS -- he questioned the link between H.I.V. and the disease -- and his refusal to take a hard line against Zimbabwe's autocratic leader, Robert Mugabe.
 Mrs. Clinton continued on to Cape Town, where her aides had been hoping for a light day in an otherwise grueling 11-day tour, typically packed with several stops per day and lots of rushing around in motorcades and jostling by big men with sunglasses and earpieces.
 But the work continued full steam. Mrs. Clinton, who seems uncannily resistant to jet lag, visited two community housing projects and danced with children, lugged some rocks into a wheelbarrow, planted flowers, planted a tree and beamed as a choir broke out into a song about her.
 ''Hill-ar-eee, Hill-ar-eee!'' the men and women sang, their faces glazed with sweat.
 Other people banged on drums, and little boys with dented trumpets tipped their heads back and blew spirited notes skyward.
 The community housing project, which began with some modest seed money from the United States government, was a personal favorite of Mrs. Clinton's. She first visited the site in 1997, then returned the next year with her husband, Bill Clinton.
 ''This is so exciting,'' she said Saturday, as she stood with some of the women who built the houses with their own hands. ''This is what I really believe in.''
 One particularly audacious South African woman put that to the test. She brushed her way past the burly security guards, strutted right up to Mrs. Clinton and wagged her finger playfully, saying, ''Last time you came here you promised you'd give us some more money.''
 Mrs. Clinton laughed.
 ''You're right,'' she said. ''I left my purse on the bus, but that's no excuse.''
 An aide slipped her a crisp $50 bill, which Mrs. Clinton promptly handed over to the woman.
 ''These are good businesswomen,'' Mrs. Clinton said before disappearing into yet another armored car and driving off.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a visit to South Africa by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton misstated the location of Durban, where she met the new president of South Africa, Jacob Zuma. (The error was repeated in an article about Mrs. Clinton's visit on Sunday.) Durban is on the coast of the Indian Ocean, not the Atlantic Ocean. The article on Sunday also referred incorrectly to Durban's size. It is South Africa's third-largest city, with a population of more than 3 million; it is not a ''beach town.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton danced during a visit to a housing project on Cape Town's outskirts on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANLUIGI GUERCIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); AIDS & HIV (65%); CORRUPTION (55%); SCANDALS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JACOB ZUMA (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); THABO MBEKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (90%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (94%); SOMALIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); KENYA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



247 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: The Stay-Put Incentive

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
SPRING and summer are usually busy seasons for the New York City rental market. And after an extraordinarily slow winter, deals have picked up.
 The true lifeblood of the rental market, however, isn't warm weather. It's jobs. And those are projected to be scarce for some time. So as owners cast a wary eye toward fall, some are taking action to stave off vacancies. 
 Scott Linquist was on the receiving end of a please-don't-go initiative this summer. 
 When he opened his lease renewal for Aug. 15, it held a rent reduction -- one he hadn't even asked for. 
 ''I love my apartment and I didn't want to move,'' he said of his home on East 86th Street. ''But had they not given me a reduction at all, I probably wouldn't have stayed.'' 
 While his rent went from $3,900 to $3,600 per month, his payments stayed about the same because he had been given a free month when he signed the lease in 2008. Amortized over a year, that comes out to about $300 per month. 
 Mr. Linquist lives in the Ventura, a building owned and operated by the Related Companies, one of the largest landlords in New York City. Related's apartments range from $2,195 to more than $20,000 per month. The company has some 5,000 rental units in Manhattan alone. 
 ''I don't think it's any secret that the market has definitely had an adjustment over the past almost-year,'' said David Wine, a vice chairman of Related. ''It would be disingenuous to enter the renewal process underestimating the market knowledge of our customers.'' 
 ''In the market that existed a year or two ago,'' he added, ''landlords sent out the renewal notice and the resident was either happy to renew or they had to move. The process has become much more complicated.'' 
 According to a rental market report prepared for Prudential Douglas Elliman by the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, activity spiked late in the second quarter of this year. Nonetheless, rental transactions were down some 58 percent from the same quarter of 2008, and the number of days that listings sat on the market jumped to 83 days from 45 days a year earlier. 
 ''There's a confusion between more activity and rents rising,'' said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel. ''I think the spring saw more activity.''
 Mr. Wine of Related points out that while his company has lowered the rent on some apartments, it has raised the rents on others, and the market has borne it. 
 Fritz Frigan, the executive director of sales and leasing at Halstead Property, says the push for lower rents and big incentives seems to have lost some momentum. 
 ''The rental market has picked up and shown an unusual sense of strength,'' Mr. Frigan said. ''In the first quarter, January through March, you felt you could get anything you wanted. That has dwindled down.''
 ''How long will this last? It's anybody's guess,'' Mr. Frigan said. ''But if the prediction is correct that it's going to be a truly protracted and jobless recovery, then when the slow season starts in November, we will face weakness in the rental market again.'' 
 According to Mr. Frigan, almost 14,000 new rental units are expected to come online through 2010 in Manhattan alone. In a weak economy, he says, this additional supply could mean more bad news for landlords.
 Marc Lewis, the president of Century 21 NY Metro, also casts a wary eye on recent busy days at the rental office. ''It's a bull market rally in a bear market,'' he said. ''It's not sustainable because there are just no jobs. All the business we're doing is just people moving to save rent.
 ''The fear that's going on among landlords is they don't know what they're going to do in the fall and winter,'' Mr. Lewis added. ''They can't find enough bodies.'' 
 So to keep the tenants they have now, many are making offers. 
 A real estate broker at a major New York firm who is also a tenant on the Upper East Side recently received an unsolicited rent reduction of about 20 percent. She asked to remain anonymous because the lease has not yet been signed by her landlord.
 ''I was shocked,'' she said. ''It clearly said 'your rent has been decreased.' I just signed it and sent it back.'' 
 Her apartment is near heavy construction for the Second Avenue subway line. But the broker believes her rent reduction was at least as much a symptom of the market as the disheveled state of her neighborhood. 
 ''They have a huge number of vacancies,'' she said of her landlord. ''They're in tune with not losing tenants, and particularly not losing tenants from this area.''
 Having a vacant apartment is an extremely expensive proposition for a landlord. In addition to losing a month or two of rent, to fill it again he or she may have to pay the broker's fee or give an additional month away for nothing. 
 ''Turnover doesn't make a lot of sense unless you're chasing an upward market,'' said Peter Cohen, a senior vice president at Halstead Property. 
 Nonetheless, some owners do not feel it is necessary to make concessions to tenants right now. 
 Jessica Meier approached the management company of her building toward the end of her lease this summer to ask for a decrease in rent. She and her roommate pay $3,300 for a two-bedroom in Murray Hill. 
 ''I told them I was looking to pay under $3,000 and they said they had nothing for me,'' she said. ''They told me, 'We're not looking at the market; we're just making sure the rents make sense within our properties.' ''
 So Ms. Meier, 24, is moving out. She has chosen a slightly larger apartment two blocks away that will cost her and her roommate $2,900 per month. 
 Ms. Meier's real estate broker, Ari LeFauve of the Real Estate Group of New York, said building owners are still asking for rent increases. He often advises landlords, especially individuals with few apartments, to have more modest expectations. 
 ''If someone's willing to pay the exact rent they were paying, I think that's a godsend,'' Mr. LeFauve said. ''That's people willing to pay what they were paying at the peak of the market.''
 Mr. LeFauvre's girlfriend, Megan Noetzel, received a May 1 renewal with no reduction for a one-year lease and a very small reduction, less than 5 percent, for a two-year lease. 
 ''Given the market,'' Ms. Noetzel said, ''I knew that I had some leeway.'' She wrote her landlord asking for a rent reduction of almost $400. 
 Ms. Noetzel, 26, an associate merchandise planner for Aeropostale, said she had not been optimistic that her offer would be accepted.
 ''Absolutely not,'' she said. ''I thought that I completely low-balled my estimate.'' But after a few weeks of waiting, the management company called and said the price she had requested, $2,350 -- down from her original rent of $2,725 -- was acceptable, if she signed a two-year lease. 
 Tyler King and his roommate, who moved into their Williamsburg two-bedroom in summer 2008, did not wait until the end of their lease to try to get out from under their peak-market price. 
 ''We moved in right at the peak,'' Mr. King said. ''Right as the bubble was about to burst, we signed our lease and were feeling good about it. Then, 'Pop!' '' 
 Earlier this year, Mr. King, 29, an associate at the commercial appraisal firm Miller Cicero, noticed that two identical apartments in his six-unit building were on the market for less than he was paying. Mr. King decided to ask his landlord to cut the rent.
 ''I knew he didn't have to,'' Mr. King said. ''I was actually pretty doubtful.''
 But spurred by the posted price of those vacant apartments, Mr. King requested that the rent be lowered to $2,200 from $2,475. At first his landlord wanted to renew the lease in exchange for a discount. When this offer was declined, he cut the rent anyway. 
 ''After I got my rent lowered here, I started negotiating with everyone,'' Mr. King said. ''I got my cable bill lowered!'' 
 At the end of this month, Mr. King and his fiancee, Natale Goriel, also 29, are moving in together. While they believe they're getting a good deal, paying $2,383 for a luxury one-bedroom in the Financial District, there wasn't a great deal of negotiation involved. 
 ''The only thing I was able to push up was my move-in date,'' he said. ''I tried to talk them down on the rent, but they had just had a price cut in that building and they were offering one month free. They were not going to budge any more than that,'' he said. ''At least not at the moment.''
 But many landlords are still happy to negotiate. 
 For the last year, Niko Dizdar has leased his one rental apartment, a three-bedroom in Astoria, Queens, to three young professionals for $2,900. When his tenants told him they were moving out last month, he offered to knock $400 off the rent. 
 He said he knew he would have to lower the rent anyway to attract new occupants, and they had been good tenants. Unfortunately, he says, they moved anyway. 
 ''This economy,'' Mr. Dizdar said, shaking his head. ''We're all paying for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE1)
FAIR IS FAIR: Tyler King found out that apartments identical to his were renting for less. The landlord agreed to cut the rent in the middle of his lease.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PRICE CHOPPERS: When her lease was up, Megan Noetzel asked her landlord for a rent cut of almost $400. She got it. The Ventura, top, on East 86th Street, is among the buildings that have surprised some tenants with unsolicited rent breaks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



248 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Terms With Containing North Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
Bill Clinton's rescue mission to Pyongyang last week may have done more than win the freedom of two young American journalists. To many in Washington, it seemed to reconfirm hints of just how shrunken North Korea's ambitions (not to mention its leader) have become after years of confrontation with the world.
 Desperate for some affirmation of his legacy, this interpretation goes, the ailing Kim Jong Il used the drama to draw a former American president onto his own turf. To North Korea's hungry populace, it doubtless looked as if the Americans had finally come to pay homage. 
 But the truth is that North Korea no longer instills fear the way it did even during the Clinton presidency, when it once threatened to turn Seoul into a ''sea of fire'' if it did not get its way. For all the nuclear and missile tests the North has recently staged, such a threat today rings hollow. The North still has well-hidden artillery that could do great harm, but South Korean officials say they know that North Korea's air force does not have enough fuel to send fighters aloft to practice for long, much less to initiate a war. And South Koreans are so unafraid of a 1950s-style invasion that they have built housing developments to the edge of the demilitarized zone dividing the Koreas. 
 All of which seems to lend weight to the Obama administration's instinct that this is a moment, in the words of a senior adviser to President Obama, to ''break the cycle'' set under Presidents Clinton and George W. Bush: the North's serial nuclear provocations lead to a payoff and an agreement that then falls apart, leading to another crisis and another payoff.
 So Mr. Obama's aides say they are accelerating a gradual refocusing of policy away from the receding prospects of all-out war, and onto classic ''containment'' of the North's one last big asset: its ability to teach other nations how to put together the building blocks of the bomb.
 What seems to be new is the single-minded focus on choking off Pyongyang's efforts to sell its know-how, rather than pressing for ''regime change'' as Mr. Bush did in his first term, or trying too hard to lure North Korea with the prospect of full integration with the West, which Mr. Clinton dangled years ago. 
 ''We just want to make sure the government of North Korea is operating within the basic rules of the international community,'' Mr. Obama told MSNBC last week. 
 No one in Washington will admit -- at least on the record -- that ''containment'' has become the primary objective; indeed, the government's official goal is still ''complete, verifiable nuclear disarmament,'' wording drawn from the Bush era. But few of Mr. Obama's aides, some of whom have wrestled with North Korea for two decades, believe that the North will ever give up everything in its nuclear panoply -- or that the outside world could ever be sure that it had. 
 The more immediate, and practical, goal, then, is to neutralize Mr. Kim's ability to reap cash and power from exporting its know-how for building a crude nuclear device. 
 Mr. Obama won a little-publicized victory in that effort a few weeks ago when the White House used newly granted authority from the United Nations to put a destroyer on the tail of the Kang Nam I, a rusting cargo ship believed to be taking weapons to Myanmar, formerly Burma. No one is sure what the cargo was, and the Navy avoided a direct confrontation. But the Kang Nam finally turned around and went home, its cargo undelivered. 
 Still, there are reasons to wonder whether containment of North Korea can work. The core idea is that wariness and time are the best instruments with which to let a corrupt, inept government rot from within, as when the Soviet Union collapsed. ''I wish they'd conduct a nuclear test every week,'' a member of Mr. Obama's team joked recently, referring to estimates that North Korea has only enough fuel for 8 to 12 weapons.
 The problem is that every American president since Harry Truman has underestimated how much rot the North Korean regime could withstand. Each thought the North could fall on his watch. After all, it has been the most sanctioned nation on earth since the early 1950's, and it has recently cut the few deep economic ties that it made in the past decade with the South. 
 Some former officials, who have dealt with the North as it veered between wary interaction with its foes and overstated threats, interpreted North Korea's demand for Mr. Clinton's appearance in exchange for the journalists' release as a sign that Mr. Kim might be eager to change course one more time. ''They are clearly sending signals that they are ready to engage,'' said Wendy Sherman, who guided Korea strategy for Mr. Clinton from the State Department. 
 Mr. Obama has said that when North Korea is ready to return to six-nation talks, so is he. But several top officials acknowledge being surprised by North Korea's move early this year to throw out the agreements reached at the end of the Bush era, restart its nuclear plant and test another nuclear weapon. And that has led them to toughen some of the pressure on Pyongyang. 
 There is new attention, for example, on shutting down North Korean bank accounts and suppliers. There are new sanctions against several firms that have been financing North Korea's missile trade, including an Iranian company. Under the United Nations resolution, member nations are being pressed to deny North Korean ships fuel and food unless their cargoes are inspected. 
 Still, intelligence about North Korean activities is notoriously poor, and there are unconfirmed reports that the North is helping the Burmese build a reactor in their country. 
 But perhaps the greatest risk in a containment strategy is one of inconsistency. Two Bushes, two Clintons and President Obama himself have vowed that the world will never tolerate a nuclear North Korea. If America does end up tolerating it, the Iranians will take notice. Which is why Israeli officials bring up North Korea whenever American officials talk to them about Iran's nuclear ambitions. You Americans can try containment with North Korea, they say; it's your problem. But don't try to extend the concept to Iran. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THWARTED: The Kang Nam I, shown here in 2007, was trailed by an American warship until it gave up its effort to sail to Myanmar this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); KIM JONG IL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



249 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2761 words

HEADLINE: Paulson's Calls to Goldman Tested Ethics During Crisis

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and DON VAN NATTA Jr.

 BODY:
Before he became President George W. Bush's Treasury secretary in 2006, Henry M. Paulson Jr. agreed to hold himself to a higher ethical standard than his predecessors. He not only sold all his holdings in Goldman Sachs, the investment bank he had run, but also specifically said that he would avoid any substantive interaction with Goldman executives for his entire term unless he first obtained an ethics waiver from the government.
 But today, seven months after Mr. Paulson left office, questions are still being asked about his part in decisions last fall to prop up the teetering financial system with tens of billions of taxpayer dollars, including aid that directly benefited his former firm. Testifying on Capitol Hill last month, he was grilled about his relationship with Goldman. 
 ''Is it possible that there's so much conflict of interest here that all you folks don't even realize that you're helping people that you're associated with?'' Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, asked Mr. Paulson at the July 16 hearing. 
 ''I operated very consistently within the ethic guidelines I had as secretary of the Treasury,'' Mr. Paulson responded, adding that he asked for an ethics waiver for his interactions with his old firm ''when it became clear that we had some very significant issues with Goldman Sachs.'' 
 Mr. Paulson did not say when he received a waiver, but copies of two waivers he received -- from the White House counsel's office and the Treasury Department -- show they were issued on the afternoon of Sept. 17, 2008. 
 That date was in the middle of the most perilous week of the financial crisis and a day after the government agreed to lend $85 billion to the American International Group, which used the money to pay off Goldman and other big banks that were financially threatened by A.I.G.'s potential collapse. 
 It is common, of course, for regulators to be in contact with market participants to gather valuable industry intelligence, and financial regulators had to scramble very quickly last fall to address an unprecedented crisis. In those circumstances it would have been difficult for anyone to follow routine guidelines.
 While Mr. Paulson spoke to many Wall Street executives during that period, he was in very frequent contact with Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive, according to a copy of Mr. Paulson's calendars acquired by The New York Times through a Freedom of Information Act request. 
 During the week of the A.I.G. bailout alone, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Blankfein spoke two dozen times, the calendars show, far more frequently than Mr. Paulson did with other Wall Street executives. 
 On Sept. 17, the day Mr. Paulson secured his waivers, he and Mr. Blankfein spoke five times. Two of the calls occurred before Mr. Paulson's waivers were granted. 
 Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paulson, said that the former Treasury secretary was busy writing his memoirs and that his publisher had barred him from granting interviews until his manuscript was done. She pointed out that the ethics agreement Mr. Paulson agreed to when he joined the Treasury did not prevent him from talking to Goldman executives like Mr. Blankfein in order to keep abreast of market developments.
 Ms. Davis also said that Federal Reserve officials, not Mr. Paulson, played the lead role in shaping and financing the A.I.G. bailout. 
 But Mr. Paulson was closely involved in decisions to rescue A.I.G., according to two senior government officials who requested anonymity because the negotiations were supposed to be confidential. 
 And government ethics specialists say that the timing of Mr. Paulson's waivers, and the circumstances surrounding it, are troubling.
 ''I think that when you have a person in a high government position who has been with one of the major financial institutions, things like this have to happen more publicly and they have to happen more in the normal course of business rather than privately, quietly and on the fly,'' said Peter Bienstock, the former executive director of the New York State Commission on Government Integrity and a partner at the law firm of Cohen Hennessey Bienstock & Rabin. 
 He went on: ''If it can happen on a phone call and can happen without public scrutiny, it destroys the standard because then anything can happen in that fashion and any waiver can happen.''
 Inevitable Questions
 Concerns about potential conflicts of interest were perhaps inevitable during this financial crisis, the worst since the Great Depression. In the weeks before Mr. Paulson obtained the waivers, Treasury lawyers raised questions about whether he had conflicts of interest, a senior government official said.
 Indeed, Mr. Paulson helped decide the fates of a variety of financial companies, including two longtime Goldman rivals, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, before his ethics waivers were granted. Ad hoc actions taken by Mr. Paulson and officials at the Federal Reserve, like letting Lehman fail and compensating A.I.G.'s trading partners, continue to confound some market participants and members of Congress.
 ''I think it's clear he had a conflict of interest,'' Mr. Stearns, the congressman, said in an interview. ''He was covering himself with this waiver because he knew he had a conflict of interest with his telephone calls and with his actions. Even though he had no money in Goldman, he had a vested interest in Goldman's success, in terms of his own reputation and historical perspective.''
 Adding to questions about Mr. Paulson's role, critics say, is the fact that Goldman Sachs was among a group of banks that received substantial government assistance during the turmoil. Goldman not only received $13 billion in taxpayer money as a result of the A.I.G. bailout, but also was given permission at the height of the crisis to convert from an investment firm to a national bank, giving it easier access to federal financing in the event it came under greater financial pressure. 
 Goldman also won federal debt guarantees and received $10 billion under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. It benefited further when the Securities and Exchange Commission suddenly changed its rules governing stock trading, barring investors from being able to bet against Goldman's shares by selling them short.
 Now that the company's crisis has passed, Goldman has rebounded more markedly than its rivals. It has paid back the $10 billion in government assistance, with interest, and exited the federal debt guarantee program. It recently reported second-quarter profit of $3.44 billion, putting its employees on track to earn record bonuses this year: about $700,000 each, on average. 
 Ms. Davis, the spokeswoman for Mr. Paulson, said Goldman never received special treatment from the Treasury. Mr. Paulson's calendars do not disclose any details about his conversations with Mr. Blankfein, and Ms. Davis said Mr. Paulson always maintained a proper regulatory distance from his old firm. 
 A spokesman for Goldman, Lucas van Praag, said: ''Lloyd Blankfein, like the C.E.O.'s of other major financial institutions, received calls from, and made calls to, Treasury to provide a market perspective on conditions and events as they were unfolding. Given what was happening in the world, it would have been shocking if such conversations hadn't taken place.''
 Although federal officials were concerned that Goldman Sachs might collapse that week, Mr. van Praag said the only topics of discussion between Mr. Blankfein and Mr. Paulson at the time involved Lehman Brothers' troubled London operations and ''disarray in the money markets.'' Mr. van Praag said Goldman was fully insulated from financial fallout related to a possible A.I.G. collapse in mid-September of last year.
 However, Mr. Paulson believed he needed to request the ethics waivers during that tumultuous week, after regulators had become concerned that the same crisis of confidence that felled Bear Stearns and Lehman might spread to the remaining investment banks, including Goldman Sachs. 
 At a conference call scheduled for 3 p.m. on Sept. 17, 2008, Fed officials intended to discuss the financial soundness of Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, and they had asked Mr. Paulson to participate, according to Mr. Paulson's calendars and his spokeswoman. 
 That was the first time during the crisis that Mr. Paulson's involvement required a waiver, Ms. Davis said. The waiver was requested that morning and granted orally that afternoon, just before the 3 p.m. conference call.
 A few minutes later, in an e-mail message to Mr. Paulson, Bernard J. Knight Jr., assistant general counsel at the Treasury, outlined the agency's rationale for granting the waiver. 
 ''I have determined that the magnitude of the government's interest in your participation in matters that might affect or involve Goldman Sachs clearly outweighs the concern that your participation may cause a reasonable person to question the integrity of the government's programs and operations,'' Mr. Knight wrote.
 Goldman's Windfall
 For investors in the United States and around the world, the days after the A.I.G. rescue were perilous and uncertain; the Dow Jones industrial average fell 4 percent on Sept. 17 as credit markets froze and investors absorbed the implications of the insurance giant's collapse. That day, Mr. Paulson and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve were scrambling to contain the damage and shore up investor confidence.
 But Mr. Paulson has disavowed any involvement in the decision to use taxpayer funds to make Goldman and A.I.G.'s trading partners whole. In his July testimony to the House, he said: ''I want you to know that I had no role whatsoever in any of the Fed's decision regarding payments to any of A.I.G.'s creditors or counterparties.'' 
 Ms. Davis reiterated this, saying that Mr. Paulson's involvement in the A.I.G. bailout was meant to forestall a collapse of the entire financial system and not to rescue any individual firms exposed to A.I.G., like Goldman. However, she said, federal officials were worried that both Goldman and Morgan Stanley were in danger themselves of failing later in the week and it was in that context that Mr. Paulson received a waiver. 
 ''The waiver was in anticipation of a need to rescue Goldman Sachs,'' Ms. Davis said, ''not to bail out A.I.G.''
 Treasury Department lawyers said a waiver for Mr. Paulson regarding A.I.G. was not necessary, Ms. Davis said, because the A.I.G. rescue was conducted by the Federal Reserve. The Treasury had no power to rescue A.I.G., she said. Only the Fed could make such a loan. 
 But according to two senior government officials involved in the discussions about an A.I.G. bailout and several other people who attended those meetings and requested anonymity because of confidentiality agreements, the government's decision to rescue A.I.G was made collectively by Mr. Paulson, officials from the Federal Reserve and other financial regulators in meetings at the New York Fed over the weekend of Sept. 13-14, 2008. 
 These people said Mr. Paulson played a major role in the A.I.G. rescue discussions over that weekend and that it was well known among the participants that a loan to A.I.G. would be used to pay Goldman and the insurer's other trading partners.
 Over that weekend, according to a former senior government official involved in the discussions, Mr. Paulson said that he had been warned by lawyers for the Treasury Department not to contact Goldman executives directly. But he said Mr. Paulson told him he had disregarded the advice because the ''crisis'' required action. 
 Ms. Davis said: ''Hank doesn't recall saying that. Staff had advised that he interact one on one with Goldman as little as possible, not because it would be a violation but for appearances, recognizing someone would likely attempt to read too much into it.''
 On Sept. 16, 2008, the day that the government agreed to inject billions into A.I.G., Mr. Paulson personally called Robert B. Willumstad, A.I.G.'s chief executive, and dismissed him. Mr. Paulson's involvement in the decision to rescue A.I.G. is also supported by an e-mail message sent by Scott G. Alvarez, general counsel at the Federal Reserve Board, to Robert Hoyt, a Treasury legal counsel, that same day.
 The subject of the message, acquired under the Freedom of Information Act, is ''AIG Letter,'' and it contains a reference to a document called ''AIG.Paulson.Letter.draft2.09.16.2008.doc.'' The letter itself was not released.
 Ms. Davis said this letter was intended to confirm that the Treasury and Mr. Paulson supported the loan to A.I.G. and that its officials recognized that any Fed losses would be absorbed by taxpayers. She said the existence of the letter did not confirm that Mr. Paulson was extensively involved in discussions about an A.I.G. bailout. 
 Since last September, the government's commitment to A.I.G. has swelled to $173 billion. A recent report from the Government Accountability Office questioned whether taxpayers would ever be repaid the money loaned to what was once the world's largest insurance company.
 Constant Contact
 In the ethics agreement that Mr. Paulson signed in 2006, he wrote: ''I believe that these steps will ensure that I avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest in the performance of my duties as Secretary of the Treasury.'' 
 While that agreement barred him from dealing on specific matters involving Goldman, he spoke with Mr. Blankfein at other pivotal moments in the crisis before receiving waivers.
 Mr. Paulson's schedules from 2007 and 2008 show that he spoke with Mr. Blankfein, who was his successor as Goldman's chief, 26 times before receiving a waiver.
 On the morning of Sept. 16, 2008, the day the A.I.G. rescue was announced, Mr. Paulson's calendars show that he took a call from Mr. Blankfein at 9:40 a.m. Mr. Paulson received the ethics waiver regarding contacts with Goldman between 2:30 and 3 the next afternoon. According to his calendar, he called Mr. Blankfein five times that day. The first call was placed at 9:10 a.m.; the second at 12:15 p.m.; and there were two more calls later that day. That evening, after taking a call from President Bush, Mr. Paulson called Mr. Blankfein again. 
 When the Treasury secretary reached his office the next day, on Sept. 18, his first call, at 6:55 a.m., went to Mr. Blankfein. That was followed by a call from Mr. Blankfein. All told, from Sept. 16 to Sept. 21, 2008, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Blankfein spoke 24 times. 
 At the height of the financial crisis, Mr. Paulson spoke far more often with Mr. Blankfein than any other executive, according to entries in his calendars. 
 The calls between Mr. Paulson and Mr. Blankfein, especially those surrounding the A.I.G. bailout, are disturbing to Samuel L. Hayes, a professor emeritus at Harvard Business School and a consultant in the past for government agencies, including the Treasury Department.
 ''We don't know what they talked about,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''Obviously there was an enormous amount at stake for Goldman in whether or not the A.I.G. contracts would be made whole. So I think the burden is now on Mr. Paulson to demonstrate that there was no exchange of information one way or the other that influenced the ultimate decision of the government to essentially provide a blank check for A.I.G.'s contracts.''
 In a letter accompanying the government's production of Mr. Paulson's calendar under the Freedom of Information Act request, Kevin M. Downey, a lawyer for Mr. Paulson, raised questions about how comprehensive the schedules were. He noted, for example, that the calendars did not reflect the Treasury secretary's attendance at several public events. Mr. Downey did not return phone calls or e-mail messages seeking further comment.
 Moreover, because the schedules include only phone calls made through Mr. Paulson's office at Treasury, they provide only a partial picture of his communications. They do not reflect calls he made on his cellphone or from his home telephone.
 According to the schedules, Mr. Paulson's contacts with Mr. Blankfein began even before the height of the crisis last fall. During August 2007, for example, when the market for asset-backed commercial paper was seizing up, Mr. Paulson spoke with Mr. Blankfein 13 times. Mr. Paulson placed 12 of those calls.
 By contrast, Mr. Paulson spoke six times that August with Richard S. Fuld Jr. of Lehman, four times with Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase and only twice with John Thain of Merrill Lynch.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(A1)
 Henry Paulson, at a House hearing last month, was questioned about his relationship with Goldman, the firm he led. He spoke to its chief 24 times in six days.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (65%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (65%); 8685 (TSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); CLIFF STEARNS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



250 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1373 words

PERSON: Anne Wexler 

HEADLINE: Anne Wexler, an Influential Political Operative and Lobbyist, Is Dead at 79

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Anne Wexler, who did just about everything in politics except run for office -- from licking envelopes to running Democratic campaigns to serving as a top aide in the Carter White House before becoming an influential Washington lobbyist -- died on Friday. She was 79.
 The cause was cancer, said Charles Kaiser, a family friend.
 In 1978, with his administration reeling from a bad economy, Congressional contentiousness and internal disarray, President Jimmy Carter gave Ms. Wexler, a veteran political operative, the job of building coalitions to support his embattled agenda.
 She brought hundreds of business, labor and community leaders to the White House for briefings with senior officials, sometimes including Mr. Carter, and pushed them to use their resources to further the administration's agenda. 
 ''Our job is to create lobbyists,'' she said in an interview with The National Journal in 1979. ''We do that by educating people on the substance of the issues.''
 Her ability to mobilize outside support -- honed in her campaign work at the local, state and national levels -- was critical in some of the administration's accomplishments, including deregulation of the price of newly discovered natural gas; lessening federal control of the airline and trucking industry; and the Panama Canal treaty.
 ''I think she's the most competent woman in Democratic politics in this country,'' Hamilton Jordan, President Carter's chief of staff, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1978. In later years, she advised Democratic candidates like Geraldine A. Ferraro and Hillary Rodham Clinton in her run for the Democratic presidential nomination.
 The day after President Ronald Reagan succeeded Mr. Carter in January 1981, Ms. Wexler hung up her shingle as a lobbyist and soon recruited heavyweight clients like General Motors. Her firm, now called Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates, became known for organizing grass-roots campaigns for trade deals, regulatory matters and legislation.
 Australia was so grateful for her help with successfully pushing freer trade with the United States that it honored her with its Order of Australia award in 2002.
 In 1998, Washingtonian magazine said, ''She is easily the most influential female lobbyist in a world still dominated by men.''
 Ms. Wexler's effectiveness was owed in part to a personality that could be alternately pleasing and tough. ''When it comes to toughness, there is no gender for that, my dear,'' she told The Times in 1983.
 Her success also relied on a vast network of contacts, including the medium-level civil servants she often found most useful, and a bipartisan management style. In 1983, she brought in Nancy Clark Reynolds, a close friend of Ronald and Nancy Reagan, as a top associate, and in 1997, Robert S. Walker, a retiring Republican congressman close to Newt Gingrich, signed on.
 As personnel changed, Wexler & Walker underwent several name changes. In 1990, it was acquired by the giant Hill & Knowlton public relations firm, itself a unit of the WPP Group, the sprawling London-based communications empire. Wexler & Walker continued to act as an autonomous unit.
 Ms. Wexler maintained that she sold more than influence, despite her ''Rolodex queen'' nickname. A lobbyist's real job, she said, is guiding legislators and administrators through the virtues and pitfalls of complex legislation.
 ''Government officials are not comfortable making these complicated decisions by themselves,'' she told Time magazine in 1986.
 Anne Levy was born in Manhattan on Feb. 10, 1930. Her father, Leon R. Levy, a prominent architect, designed the New York Coliseum. Her first involvement in politics was ringing doorbells for Harry S. Truman as a history major at Skidmore College.
 Two weeks after her college graduation in 1951, she married Richard Wexler, an ophthalmologist, and became a homemaker in Westport, Conn. ''I had all the Jewish princess stuff -- a lovely home, a full-time maid, lots of vacations,'' Ms. Wexler told The Times in 1978.
 She also began diving, successively, into local, state and national politics. In 1966, she helped Dr. John Fitzgerald, an antiwar candidate, organize a Congressional campaign in southwest Connecticut against an incumbent Democrat, Donald J. Irwin, who supported the Vietnam War. Her candidate lost, but her interest in politics only deepened. 
 Defining herself as a liberal, she hurled herself into the nuts and bolts of politics, learning at the feet of more conservative powerbrokers. John Bailey, the longtime chairman of Connecticut Democrats, called her ''as brilliant a political operator as I've known in 35 years.''
 In 1968, Ms. Wexler was a leader of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy's presidential campaign in Connecticut. She went on to the Chicago nominating convention as a delegate and a rules committee member and wrote much of the committee's minority report, which was later adapted by the convention and led to far-reaching reforms in delegate selection.
 In 1970, Ms. Wexler managed the senatorial campaign of Joseph D. Duffey, a Connecticut Democrat and ordained minister in the United Church of Christ who at the time was national chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action, a liberal group. One of the campaign volunteers she supervised was Bill Clinton, then a Yale law student. 
 Mr. Duffey won the Democratic nomination but lost to Representative Lowell P. Weicker Jr., a Republican, in the general election. Mr. Duffey and Ms. Wexler divorced their spouses and married in September 1974.
 Mr. Duffey went on to serve as chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities in the Carter administration and director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration.
 In 1971, Ms. Wexler directed the voting rights effort of the government watchdog group Common Cause until the project ran out of money. She then became a national leader of the presidential campaign of Senator Edmund S. Muskie, Democrat of Maine. After he dropped out of the race, she managed the voter registration efforts of Senator George S. McGovern, the party's nominee.
 In 1973, Ms. Wexler became associate publisher of Rolling Stone magazine and oversaw its political coverage. That included supervising Hunter S. Thompson, famous for his flamboyant journalism and unconventional lifestyle. He sometime stayed with Mr. Duffey and Ms. Wexler when in Washington.
 Mr. Duffey survives her, as do two sons by her previous marriage, David and Daniel Wexler; her stepsons, Michael and David Duffey; and three grandchildren.
 Mr. Duffey and Ms. Wexler went to work for Mr. Carter's presidential campaign in the spring of 1976 and later joined the Carter transition team, helping screen candidates for administration jobs. Concentrating on the Commerce Department, Ms. Wexler recommended Juanita Kreps, an economist, for commerce secretary.
 ''No one knew who Juanita Kreps was, and she found Juanita Kreps,'' Mark Siegel, a Democratic campaign consultant, said in an oral history interview in 2000.
 Ms. Kreps became commerce secretary, the first woman to hold this post, and Ms. Wexler became a commerce undersecretary in charge of regional directors. In April 1978, Ms. Wexler became an assistant to the president, replacing Midge Costanza as his liaison with constituent groups. Some said Ms. Wexler gave the administration a measure of political skill it had been lacking. 
 ''If things have picked up in terms of political nitty gritty, it's because of Anne Wexler,'' an unidentified Democratic leader in Congress told The Times in November 1978. ''She's been in politics for a long time. She thinks like a congressman.''
 As a lobbyist, Ms. Wexler could antagonize liberals by sometimes joining with conservatives on issues and, through her firm, often contributing more to Republicans than Democrats.
 But sometimes she could not help being an old-fashioned, partisan Democrat. After President Reagan replicated Truman's whistle-stop train tour during the 1984 campaign for re-election, Ms. Wexler explained in an interview with The Times why a Republican would imitate a Democrat.
 Republicans honored Democratic heroes, she said, ''because they don't have any of their own.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An obituary last Sunday about the Democratic political operative Anne Wexler described part of her career in politics incorrectly. She ran for public office twice, both times for the Zoning Board of Appeals in Westport, Conn., unsuccessfully in 1965 but successfully in 1967; she did not ''do just about everything in politics except run for political office.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anne Wexler with President Jimmy Carter in 1979. She was a top aide in the Carter White House before becoming a lobbyist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MEN (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); CANCER (57%); TRUCKING (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

JIMMY CARTER (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



251 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: School for Scoundrels

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
Paul Krugman, an Op-Ed columnist for The Times, is the author of ''The Return of Depression Economics and the Crisis of 2008.''

 BODY:
THE MYTH OF THE RATIONAL MARKET
 A History of Risk, Reward, and Delusion on Wall Street.By Justin Fox
 By 382 pp. Harper Business/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99
 THE SAGES
 Warren Buffett, George Soros, Paul Volcker, and the Maelstrom of Markets
 By Charles R. Morris
 199 pp. PublicAffairs. $23.95
 Last October, Alan Greenspan -- who had spent years assuring investors that all was well with the American financial system -- declared himself to be in a state of ''shocked disbelief.'' After all, the best and brightest had assured him our financial system was sound: ''In recent decades, a vast risk management and pricing system has evolved, combining the best insights of mathematicians and finance experts supported by major advances in computer and communications technology. . . . The whole intellectual edifice, however, collapsed in the summer of last year.''
 Justin Fox's ''Myth of the Rational Market'' brilliantly tells the story of how that edifice was built -- and why so few were willing to acknowledge that it was a house built on sand. 
 Do we really need yet another book about the financial crisis? Yes, we do -- because this one is different. Instead of focusing on the errors and abuses of the bankers, Fox, the business and economics columnist for Time magazine, tells the story of the professors who enabled those abuses under the banner of the financial theory known as the efficient-market hypothesis. Fox's book is not an idle exercise in intellectual history, which makes it a must-read for anyone who wants to understand the mess we're in. Wall Street bought the ideas of the efficient-market theorists, in many cases literally: professors were lavishly paid to design complex financial strategies. And these strategies played a crucial role in the catastrophe that has now overtaken the world economy.
 This journey to disaster began with a beautiful idea. Until 1952, finance theory, such as it was, consisted of a set of wise observations and rules of thumb, without any overarching framework. But in that year Harry Markowitz, a graduate student at the University of Chicago, gave finance theory a new, hard-edged clarity by equating the concept of risk -- previously a vague term for potential losses -- with the mathematical concept of variance. 
 Markowitz's model told investors what they should do, rather than predicting what they actually do. But by the mid-1960s other theorists had taken the next step, analyzing financial markets on the assumption that investors actually behaved the way Markowitz's model said they should. The result was an intellectually elegant theory of stock prices -- the so-called Capital Asset Pricing Model, or CAPM (pronounced ''cap-em''). CAPM is a deeply seductive theory, and it's hard to overemphasize how thoroughly it took over thinking about finance, not just in business schools but on Wall Street. 
 Markowitz would eventually share a Nobel in economic science with William Sharpe, who played a key role in developing CAPM, and Merton Miller, another central figure in the development of modern financial theory. Long before then, however, the innovative idea had hardened into a dogma.
 One of the great things about Fox's writing is that he brings to it a real understanding of the sociology of the academic world. Above all, he gets the way in which one's career, reputation, even sense of self-worth can end up being defined by a particular intellectual approach, so that supporters of the approach start to resemble fervent political activists -- or members of a cult. In the case of finance theory, it happened especially fast: by the early 1960s Miller began a class at the University of Chicago's business school by drawing a line down the middle of the blackboard. On one side he wrote M&M, for ''Modigliani-Miller'' -- that is, the new, mathematicized, CAPM approach to finance. On the other he wrote T -- for ''Them,'' meaning the old, informal approach.
 In this sense, efficient-market acolytes were like any other academic movement. But unlike, say, deconstructionist literary theorists, finance professors had an enormous impact on the business world -- and, not incidentally, some of them made a lot of money in the process.
 This may seem strange, since CAPM and the broader work it inspired were based on the assumption that investors make mathematically optimal investment decisions with the information at their disposal. As a result, Eugene Fama, of Chicago's business school, wrote, ''actual market prices are, on the basis of all available information, best estimates of intrinsic values.'' Fama called a market with this virtue an ''efficient market'' -- and argued that the data showed that real-world financial markets are, in fact, efficient, or very nearly so. But if the markets are already getting it right, who needs finance professors?
 In fact, however, Wall Street was eager to hire ''rocket scientists,'' especially after Fischer Black and Myron Scholes, working at M.I.T.'s Sloan School, came up with a formula that seemingly solved the puzzle of how to value options -- contracts that give investors the right to buy or sell assets at predetermined prices. The quintessential collaboration between big money and academic superstars was the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management, whose partners included Scholes and Robert Merton, with whom Scholes shared another finance Nobel. L.T.C.M. eventually imploded, nearly taking the world economy down with it. But efficient-markets theory retained its hold on financial thought.
 All along, there were critical voices. Robert Shiller, who has become famous for predicting both the Internet crash and the housing bust, first made his mark by casting statistical doubt on the evidence for efficient markets. Lawrence Summers, now a senior official in the Obama administration, began a paper on financial markets thus: ''THERE ARE IDIOTS. Look around.'' And a whole counterculture emerged in the form of ''behavioral finance,'' which argued that investors are irrational in predictable ways. But the sheer scope and sweep of the efficient markets hypothesis -- not to mention the fact that so many people devoted their careers to it -- allowed it to brush off most of these challenges.
 Of course, there have always been men of affairs wise enough to see past the current dogma. In ''The Sages,'' Charles R. Morris profiles three of them: George Soros, Warren Buffett and Paul Volcker.
 Morris, the author of ''The Trillion Dollar Meltdown,'' doesn't have much patience with economic theory, and it shows; I almost gave up on the book after Morris managed, in the space of just a few pages, to thoroughly misrepresent the ideas of both John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman. But the book comes to life with its personal profiles, especially the surprisingly endearing portrait of Warren Buffett as a young man. 
 Do the lives of the sages carry useful lessons for the rest of us? Soros doesn't really seem to have a method, except that of being smarter than anyone else. Buffett does have a method -- figure out what a company is really worth, and buy it if you can get it cheap -- but it's not a method that would work for anyone without his gifts. And Volcker's main asset is his implacable integrity, which most mortals would find hard to match.
 Indeed, I came away from reading these books wondering if their shared underlying premise -- that the current crisis will put an end to Panglossian views of financial markets -- is right. Fox points out that academic belief in the perfection of financial markets survived the 1987 stock market crash and the bursting of the Internet bubble. Why should the reaction to the latest catastrophe be any different? In fact, what I hear from my finance professor friends is that there's a lot less soul-searching under way than you might expect. And Wall Street's appetite for complex strategies that sound clever -- and can be sold to credulous investors -- survived L.T.C.M.'s debacle; why can't it survive this crisis, too?
 My guess is that the myth of the rational market -- a myth that is beautiful, comforting and, above all, lucrative -- isn't going away anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHOUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MATHEMATICS (70%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (72%); GEORGE SOROS (72%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: Myth of the Rational Market, The (Book); Sages, The (Book); Myth of the Rational Market, The (Book); Sages, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



252 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Drug Industry to Run Ads Favoring White House Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The drug industry has authorized its lobbyists to spend as much as $150 million on television commercials supporting President Obama's health care overhaul, beginning over the August Congressional recess, people briefed on the plans said Saturday. 
 The unusually large scale of the industry's commitment to the cause helps explain some of a contentious back-and-forth playing out in recent days between the odd-couple allies over a deal that the White House struck with the industry in June to secure its support. The terms of the deal were not fully disclosed. Both sides had announced that the drug industry would contribute $80 billion over 10 years to the cost of the health care overhaul without spelling out the details. 
 With House Democrats moving to extract more than that just as the drug makers finalized their advertising plans, the industry lobbyists pressed the Obama administration for public reassurances that it had agreed to cap the industry's additional costs at $80 billion. The White House, meanwhile, has struggled to mollify its most pivotal health industry ally without alienating Congressional Democrats who want to demand far more of the drug makers. White House officials could not immediately be reached for comment. 
 Many Democratic lawmakers have railed for years against what they consider the industry's excessive profits and pointedly insisted in recent days that they do not feel bound by the White House's commitments.
 Sources briefed on the drug industry's plans, speaking on condition of anonymity because the details remain confidential, say top officials of the industry's trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA, are scheduled to meet next week to finalize its fall plans. The final budget could be less or more than what was authorized, the sources said.
 By comparison, President Obama's presidential campaign spent about $236 million on television commercials while the campaign of the Republican candidate, Senator John McCain of Arizona, spent about $126 million. Few expect the opponents of the health care overhaul to muster as much advertising muscle as its backers, including sympathetic business groups, labor unions and ideological allies. The drug makers stand to gain millions of new customers from the expansion of health care coverage.
 Ken Johnson, a spokesman for PhRMA, declined to discuss the specific sums. ''Our board has agreed to make a significant investment in support of comprehensive reform,'' he said. ''Our August plan is pretty much in place, but we have not finalized all the details of the fall campaign.'' He said it would include grassroots outreach as well. The scale of the drug industry's plans was first reported Saturday by The Associated Press.
 The drug industry has already contributed millions of dollars to advertising campaigns for the health care overhaul through the advocacy groups like Healthy Economies Now and Families USA. It has spent about $1 million on similar advertisements under its own name. 
 All of the commercials closely echo common Democratic themes about medical care for all, consumer protection and ''health insurance reform.'' Some supporters of the overhaul have hired public affairs and advertising firms with close ties to the White House and Senate Democrats, including GMMB, which worked on the Obama campaign, and AKPD, which previously included David Axelrod, who is now the president's top political adviser. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING PLAN (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



253 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2821 words

HEADLINE: For Private Equity, a Very Public Disaster

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
FOR Steve Feinberg, the onetime owner of Chrysler, the past year has been a crawl toward defeat. He lost billions of dollars. He lost prestige. He lost his privacy. And he ended up a ward and supplicant of the federal government.
 But, even now, Mr. Feinberg, a man who can play a decent game of chess while blindfolded, is hard-pressed to pinpoint many mistakes. Sitting in his office on Park Avenue, far away from the detritus that surrounds Detroit, he grows pensive when asked what he has learned from his audacious -- and failed -- effort to privatize and resurrect the legendary and deeply troubled auto giant. ''I don't know what we could have done differently,'' he says, crossing his arms on his chest. ''From the day we bought it, we worked hard to improve it.'' 
 He pauses, pondering, as the clock ticks away. Then he shakes his head. ''We were too optimistic on timing,'' he says. ''Maybe what we should have done was not bought it.'' 
 Mr. Feinberg took over Chrysler almost exactly two years ago, promising to revive the company. Chrysler filed for bankruptcy protection at the end of April. So how he and his private equity firm, Cerberus Capital Management, choose to describe their journey with Chrysler is a delicate matter. 
 If he says he should have shelled out more money to help Chrysler, he could face the ire of investors who have already suffered heavy losses on his gambit. If he says he should have simply dumped Chrysler's auto arm, while clinging to its more promising finance unit, he could be accused of caring more about his wallet than he did about Chrysler's workers and the automaker's role in the economy.
 Mr. Feinberg's education at the hands of Chrysler, the government and economic reality is emblematic of the limits private equity players have encountered as they've sought to reap outsize returns while also contending that they had the smarts and managerial prowess to repair companies of any size. Not too long ago, some pundits and analysts wondered whether private equity firms -- backed with a rising tide of easy bank loans -- could gain enough traction to make runs at seemingly untouchable behemoths like General Electric. 
 When Cerberus began poking around Detroit, some at the firm said they thought that the American automobile industry was going to be the biggest turnaround story in history. In sessions with potential investors in the last few years, the Cerberus team came across as passionate, skilled and incredibly confident that they could succeed where others had failed.
 ''I thought, wow, this really signals a real change in the landscape here,'' recalls a person who attended a Cerberus session who asked to remain anonymous because of agreements he signed. ''I guess it gave me hope. The auto companies needed an enormous amount of capital, and where else was it going to come from?''
 John W. Snow, a former Treasury secretary in the Bush administration and Cerberus's chairman, also heralded Cerberus as Chrysler's savior, likening the firm's investment to the government rescue of Chrysler in 1979.
 ''Over 25 years ago, when Chrysler faced bankruptcy, it turned to the United States government for assistance,'' Mr. Snow said at a National Press Club meeting in 2007. ''Today, Chrysler again faces new financial challenges. But it is private investment stepping in to inject much-needed support.''
 Cerberus and its co-investors ultimately invested $7.4 billion in Chrysler, a sum now worth an estimated $1.4 billion. Ideally, Cerberus hoped to wed Chrysler's finance arm to another finance company it controlled, GMAC. To that end, the risks in Chrysler's auto business were something that the Cerberus team thought it could manage and that wouldn't stand in the way of making billions of dollars for investors.
 ''This will go down as one of the investments made at the very top of the credit bubble,'' Josh Lerner, a professor who studies private equity at the Harvard Business School. ''They don't look good. This will be a black eye on their record.'' Indeed, GMAC and Chrysler became so weak that they needed $22.6 billion in government aid in the last year to stay afloat. For Chrysler and its workers, investors, business partners and customers, was all of that worth it? 
 Mr. Feinberg defends his actions, saying he did everything possible to help the company. Known for avoiding publicity, he says that he was naive not to anticipate the public attention that would surround him once he bought Chrysler and that he would have avoided the investment had he known. 
 ''I always view the press as something for guys who were trying to do big things,'' he says, perhaps overlooking that Chrysler was, indeed, a very big thing.
 DON JOHNSON, a former Chrysler employee, says he worked on initial production of the Jeep Liberty at a plant in Toledo, Ohio, in summer 2007, when Cerberus won the right to buy Chrysler from Daimler of Germany. 
 To the surprise of some, Mr. Feinberg managed to woo the support of the United Automobile Workers for the deal. But Mr. Johnson says he was always skeptical about the carmaker's new owners. ''Cerberus did not have a clue about the automotive industry,'' he says. ''I don't think anything could have been worse.''
 Still, if you peel back Mr. Johnson's argument, you quickly find a story of an automaker that was already in peril by the time Cerberus came on the scene. For example, he says the body shop at his plant couldn't produce Jeep frames fast enough to keep up with the paint and assembly lines. Instead of fixing the problem, he says, the factory paid the body shop workers overtime to come in Sundays to keep up. 
 Cerberus took the helm about a week after Mr. Johnson's team ran into problems with the Jeep. When Mr. Feinberg addressed workers at a town hall meeting at Chrysler's headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., shortly after the deal, he spoke of his long love of American manufacturing, according to workers who attended the speech. In particular, he said he was proud to repatriate Chrysler's ownership from Germany.
 ''Steve saw this as a huge patriotic opportunity, in addition to a great investment,'' says Robert L. Nardelli, the former Home Depot chief executive whom Cerberus installed at Chrysler's helm.
 Although some investors doubt that anything other than profits drove Mr. Feinberg's investment, many say they believe that he was authentically excited by the prospect of reviving an American corporate icon -- a theme that Mr. Feinberg is happy to support.
 Surrounded by rifles, a motorcycle and model cars in his office, Mr. Feinberg mentions family members who have served in Iraq and a brother-in-law who worked at G.M. He apologizes for rambling and explains his motivation for investing in Chrysler: ''I love this country,'' he says. ''I feel it's been great to me. I had a great chance.''
 Still, Mr. Feinberg, 49, has spent years as a dealmaker. The son of a steel salesman, he graduated from Princeton in 1982, where he studied politics. He went into finance so he could pay off his student loans. He worked at Drexel Burnham, the investment bank made famous by Michael R. Milken before it collapsed, and then, after a brief stop at a smaller firm, he was a co-founder of Cerberus in 1992. 
 For years, Cerberus was largely a trading shop specializing in distressed debt. But by the mid- 1990s, Mr. Feinberg expanded into buying and selling distressed companies and hired dozens of seasoned corporate executives to run them. Chrysler was the biggest prize he had ever bagged, and many co-investors say they always believed Cerberus's stake in Chrysler's auto operation was never the main reason the firm was interested in the company.
 According to five people who heard Cerberus's Chrysler pitch, all of whom requested anonymity because of confidentiality agreements, Mr. Feinberg's deputies valued the financing unit more than the auto operation. In fact, the deputies believed, the finance unit's value covered the cost of buying Chrysler, making the car company something of a bonus -- if that part of the investment worked out, great; if not, Cerberus could still profit on the finance unit.
 Mr. Feinberg says he believed the automobile operation had great potential value, perhaps even more than the finance arm if Cerberus could put the automaker on the right track. But that meant he and Mr. Nardelli (who had never overseen a car company) had to effectively manage the auto operation -- no small feat. 
 By October, only three months into Cerberus's tenure, Mr. Johnson says it was becoming obvious to him and other workers that trouble was ahead. ''We went from three shifts to two shifts to one shift within a year,'' Mr. Johnson recalls. ''Then there was just down week after down week.''
 To reduce expenses, Mr. Nardelli cut excess factory capacity and billions of dollars in fixed costs. He improved the interiors of several models, which bolstered some of its approval ratings.
 But there still wasn't a strong demand for Chrysler's product line, which was packed with large vehicles like minivans and S.U.V.'s at a time when skyrocketing gas prices were making consumers interested in more fuel-efficient cars. 
 The company was aware that its lineup was far too limited. And Cerberus sent Chrysler executives around the world to seek partnerships with foreign automakers like Nissan. The hope was that those companies would help provide a broader product line for dealers. 
 But there was not time for any of the efforts to bear fruit. Chrysler was burning through cash.
 ''Once the car market stalled, the cash in the auto market evaporated,'' says Maryann Keller, a longtime auto analyst and consultant, of Chrysler's predicament. ''The cash was leaving their balance sheet, and they weren't selling cars to make money they could invest.''
 That situation was made worse by hefty interest payments on more than $10 billion in debt that Cerberus arranged for Chrysler as part of the takeover, which left the automaker carrying piles of debt just as auto sales were about to plummet. While many private equity deals involved saddling companies with debt to pay off investors, Chrysler needed to take on more debt because it had so little cash on hand to finance its operations, some analysts say. The company paid back some of the debt in November 2007.
 Ms. Keller says that the company that Mr. Feinberg took over was already suffering from myriad problems: a bad cost structure, a limited product line and no pipeline of more diverse offerings. In short, she says, Cerberus had simply bought ''a basket case.''
 At the beginning of 2008, Mr. Feinberg sized up his investment in a private letter to his investors. ''We do not need to be heroes to earn a good return on the investment in Chrysler,'' he wrote. ''We do not need to transition the car industry or even to return Chrysler to a much stronger relative position in the U.S. car market in order to be successful.''
 His letter sent a chill around New York, where dozens of hedge funds had joined in his Chrysler bet. Although these firms had agreed to let Cerberus control decisions involving their investments, there was fear about how his harsh words might affect the industry's image. After all, such a steely, hard-headed look at Chrysler didn't mesh with the patriotic tone of Cerberus's other statements about the company. Nor did it comport with the private equity industry's broader arguments that its investments were good not only for its firms, but also for America.
 Cerberus, meanwhile, was unable to stop Chrysler's downward spiral. Last fall, Chrysler and General Motors tried to merge their operations, a scenario Mr. Feinberg supported, but a deal could not be struck. And in November, Chrysler announced a huge employee buyout. Mr. Johnson, the worker at the Toledo plant, joined thousands of others who signed up.
 ''There was absolutely no hope'' among employees accepting the buyouts, he says.
 Mr. Feinberg says that he sympathizes with Mr. Johnson, but that he also believes business restructurings are, unfortunately, often brutal affairs. ''It's demoralizing when things go down,'' he says. ''But that's a turnaround, you know. Some guys make it; some guys don't want to deal with it. This was the most difficult environment. You couldn't think of a worse storm for an employee to have to live through.''
 It was also, as it turns out, a bad storm for Chrysler's owners.
 MR. FEINBERG, a longtime free-market enthusiast and a Republican who never envisioned himself needing the government for help, suddenly found himself running a company that needed federal support to stay alive.
 By early last December, with Chrysler bleeding cash, he had become a vocal presence in Washington, circulating around Congressional offices to get his story out. He even offered to put tens of millions of his own money into Chrysler, a move that would have been largely symbolic.
 ''He said his dad was a blue-collar manufacturing type,'' says Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, who often spoke with Mr. Feinberg. ''You sit there and you talk to Steve, and you can tell he's from a background that greatly understands what the American worker is all about.''
 But Mr. Feinberg soon found himself negotiating with government officials who understood what Wall Street was all about. 
 When Congress did not pass a rescue bill for the automakers, the Treasury Department stepped in, using financial authority it had already assumed from its bailout of the banking system. Cerberus's fate moved into the hands of Steven Shafran, a Goldman Sachs alumnus who represented the government and was regarded inside Treasury as a tough negotiator.
 Mr. Shafran forced Cerberus to accept a painfully low valuation of its GMAC stake. He also quashed arguments by Cerberus that Chrysler's financial arm shouldn't be responsible for paying back bailout funds provided to Chrysler's auto operation. 
 At some point in December, Mr. Feinberg began to realize that Cerberus's investment in Chrysler's auto operations was largely unsalvageable. In a phone call with Mr. Shafran about 2 a.m. on Dec. 19, he offered to simply give the car company to the government, according to five people briefed on the call.
 Mr. Feinberg says he was offering Cerberus's stake in the auto company to the government as a bargaining chit for negotiating with bankers, the union and others. But some Treasury officials were worried that he was simply trying to avoid leaving the finance unit on the hook for $2 billion of the $4 billion the auto operation received in federal aid. 
 Treasury officials declined Mr. Feinberg's offer and also were so wary of his motives that they put in a rule requiring that federal bailout money provided to Chrysler's financial arm could be used only to help Chrysler's auto unit. Despite all of that back and forth, Mr. Shafran says he believes that Cerberus behaved professionally. ''They were prepared to work closely with us to ensure a smooth landing for the car company,'' he says. 
 When the Obama administration took over this year, Mr. Feinberg got a second chance to negotiate. He faced yet another Wall Street refugee trying to save the auto industry, Steven Rattner, as well as Ron Bloom, a former banker who worked more recently for the United Steelworkers union.
 Mr. Feinberg was particularly focused on decreasing the $2 billion guarantee the previous administration had wrung out of Chrysler's financial arm. He eventually knocked that amount down by hundreds of millions of dollars after agreeing to give up some other things the government wanted -- something Mr. Feinberg regards as a fair outcome.
 ''Basically,'' Mr. Bloom says, ''they realized they made a poor investment and wanted to end it in a decent way.'' Chrysler filed for bankruptcy protection on April 30 to help clear the way for a merger with the Italian automaker Fiat.
 Cerberus now values its Chrysler stake at 19 cents on the dollar. It is a humbling and embarrassing figure for Mr. Feinberg. But it's better than zero cents on the dollar, which is what his stake might have been worth had the government not bailed him out.
 Mr. Feinberg and his colleagues at Cerberus maintain to this day that their time at Chrysler was, in part, a reflection of their patriotism -- a view that some analysts find hard to swallow.
 ''It's hard to believe that any of these firms -- including Cerberus -- will be viewed as patriots in 10 years,'' said John Rogers, a private equity analyst at Moody's Investors Service, ''because I don't think their impact on any of these companies will be seen as so positive for the overall economy.'' 
 Mr. Feinberg still begs to differ, saying his experience at Chrysler has left him feeling like a good citizen.
 ''There were times we could have been tougher and pushed harder and gotten more,'' he says, ''but it wasn't the right thing for the country.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cerberus had high hopes for Chrysler, but by this spring the automaker had fizzled. Before it was taken over by Fiat, it ended franchise agreements with hundreds of dealers, like this one in Phoenix.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS)
Steve Feinberg, a co-founder of Cerberus.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. BU1)
''Cerberus did not have a clue about the automotive industry,'' said Don Johnson, a former Chrysler employee in Ohio. ''I don't think anything could have been worse.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Steve Feinberg, right, on Capitol Hill in December, as lawmakers worked on a bailout for automakers. ''From the day we bought it,'' he said recently of Chrysler, ''we worked hard to improve it.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%)

COMPANY: CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (90%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009



254 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; THE RAIL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Thoroughbred Sales Drop, an Ominous Sign for an Erratic Industry

BYLINE: By JIM SQUIRES. 
Jim Squires has bred five graded stakes winners, including the 2001 Kentucky Derby champion, Monarchos.

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky. 

 BODY:
The sluggish opening sale of the 2009 thoroughbred auction season had just concluded, and my last shot at selling our handsome yearling colt was the skinny old cowboy with a drooping eyelid who had trekked to our barn in sharp-pointed boots and a straw hat with a rattlesnake band complete with head and gaping fangs.
 He had come to take a second look at a well-bred, smooth-moving son of Quiet American who went unsold earlier in the day, among the nearly 300 of the 424 yearlings offered that failed to earn a profit at the Fasig-Tipton Kentucky sale last month. While I went to get the van that would take the colt back to our farm, my wife, Mary Anne, was left to close the deal. A follower of the axiom ''take horse to sale, bring home money,'' she sought only to recoup the colt's $25,000 stud fee.
 Winded from his trek to the barn, the cowboy watched the colt walk a few circles, then sat on a bench to talk it over with his adviser, one of many who claim expertise in finding thoroughbred diamonds in the rough. When Mary Anne sat beside him, the old man patted her knee. He said that he liked her horse but that his adviser had rejected him. 
 ''I got the money, and I only deal in cash,'' he said.
 With that, he pulled $15,000 wrapped in a thick rubber band from the snapped front of his cowboy shirt and waved it under her nose -- briefly. She watched the $15,000 -- and our last chance for a sale -- disappear next to the sunken chest of 81-year-old Amarillo Slim Preston, a professional gambler whose session in the 40th annual World Series of Poker appeared on television the night before.
 Preston was holding the winning hand of a buyer's market at recent horse auctions. The second big sale of the season opens Monday at Saratoga, conducted under foreign ownership for the first time in its 111-year history and amid high hopes its select high-quality catalogue and fashionable boutique shoppers will give the industry a morale boost.
 As usual, the prestigious Saratoga auction will be dominated by yearlings bred in Kentucky (184 of 235 offered), which is an acknowledgment of its long pre-eminence in the industry. Kentucky's state slogan, Unbridled Spirit, characterizes its hopes. But that spirit is as hard to find in the Bluegrass as a new thoroughbred owner and trainers with money to spend.
 Even with the Arab ownership of Fasig-Tipton, America's oldest thoroughbred auction company, pulling out all the stops to attract new owners and start the sale season with a bang, the extravagant recruitment, lavish dinner and offers to finance buyers produced only another whimper. Overall revenue at the Lexington Paddocks sale was $20.8 million, down from $28.1 million, and the median dropped to $55,000 from $75,000 -- each a 26 percent decline from a down year. 
 The average, bolstered by excessive prices for a few popular new sires, was down 15.8 percent, but the decade-long trend of fewer buyers and declining profitability continued. Only 133 of the 268 horses sold appeared to have sold for a profit.
 Unlike professional sports that derive revenue from television and marketing, horse racing depends on the discretionary income of the wealthy and about 16 percent of the more than $13 billion wagered annually on North American racing. In recent years, fatal breakdowns in Triple Crown and Breeders' Cup races undermined the sport's scarce opportunities to build a fan base on television.
 Although the deaths of potential stars like the 2006 Kentucky Derby winner Barbaro and the filly Eight Belles at the 2008 Derby spurred the industry toward improved track surfaces and meaningful drug-use reform, the global economic malaise has aimed a dagger at its heart precisely when things were looking up.
 In 2008, auction purchases fell 21.2 percent to $973.8 million, and the overall amount wagered dropped to $13.6 billion from $14.7 billion. The decline has continued this year, down 10 percent over all, including a stunning 16.9 percent in June. For Kentucky, this has struck hardest at the breeding sector, on which most of the 100,000 industry-related jobs depend. 
 The 320,000 horses that live in Kentucky are responsible for a $4 billion direct economic impact, not counting their contribution as the core of the $8.8 billion tourism industry and its 14,600 equine-related jobs. The Derby alone contributes more than $200 million annually to the Louisville economy.
 But the bulk of this economic engine is horsepower associated with the residency of most of the world's leading stallions and 35 percent of the 59,000 thoroughbred mares in the United States, and horse sales that routinely account for more than two-thirds of North American thoroughbred sales. Those sales averaged more than a billion dollars a year before the slowdown. Sales and race meets attract two million to three million visitors annually.
 But Kentucky racing is in trouble, too. Two of the state's four thoroughbred tracks, Ellis Park and Turfway, are in danger of closing, and the horse population at historic Churchill Downs is threatened by declining purses and competition from surrounding states that are being helped by revenue from other gambling sources.
 In June, Kentucky's thoroughbred industry became the latest to ask for a government bailout. None was forthcoming, largely because of opposition to expanded gambling. That traditional competitors in New York, Maryland, Louisiana, Florida and many other nontraditional racing states like Pennsylvania, Indiana and Ohio are being helped by casino or slot machine revenue has pushed Kentucky's racing back to the wall and raised the possibility that its job-rich breeding industry will follow it into oblivion.
 That the Sport of Kings is in such trouble in its cradle speaks volumes about its future. With an economic underpinning as fragile as the animal on which it is based, Kentucky's breeding industry, seemingly addicted to its own hype about multimillion-dollar sale horses and rags-to-riches success, proceeded as if the laws of supply and demand did not apply. 
 Stallion books -- the number of mares bred to an individual stallion -- doubled over the last 20 years and an increasing percentage of horses bred ended up in the sales pavilions. Although industry numbers on unprofitable yearlings are often unreliable and widely disputed, 70 percent to 80 percent unprofitable production was not uncommon on Kentucky farms.
 The upside-down nature of the breeding and sales market is illustrated by the two most publicized racehorses of 2009: Old Fashioned, who broke down before the Kentucky Derby, and the eventual winner, Mine That Bird, a gelding, both descendants of Unbridled.
 Old Fashioned, an offspring of Unbridled's Song (who never won a Triple Crown race and retired unsound yet became a popular and expensive Kentucky sire), sold in 2007 at the top of the market for $800,000, eight times his stud fee. A month later, Mine That Bird sold for $9,500, less than the $10,000 his breeders put up for a mating to Birdstone, an Unbridled grandson who won the Belmont Stakes and prevented Smarty Jones from winning a Triple Crown. Typical of the erratic and trendy industry, a son of Birdstone was the second-highest-selling yearling at Lexington last month, bringing $400,000, or 40 times the stud fee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); HIKING (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (85%); RETAILERS (78%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%); POKER (67%)

COMPANY: FASIG-TIPTON KENTUCKY INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



255 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Rein In Pay on Wall St. Hits New Hurdle

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
A guaranteed bonus might strike many people as a contradiction in terms. But on Wall Street, banks have become so eager to lure and keep top deal makers and traders that they are reviving the practice of offering ironclad, multimillion-dollar payouts -- guaranteed, no matter how an employee performs.
 The resurrection of the guaranteed bonus is sure to become a hot-button issue for the Obama administration's pay czar, Kenneth Feinberg, who is preparing this week to review how compensation should be structured at seven companies that received two or more federal bailouts. 
 The companies must each submit 2009 compensation plans for their top 25 earners by Thursday, and Mr. Feinberg has 60 days to rule on them. He has the authority to single out any of those employees and adjust their pay packages. 
 In the next phase, he is to review the packages of the next 75 highest earners in each company. For them, he can set pay formulas to be applied broadly.
 Mr. Feinberg has met privately with executives at the companies and urged them to voluntarily rework any guarantees for big earners in advance of the submission deadline, according to two executives briefed on the discussions, with the goal of holding out these pay packages as examples for the industry. 
 The resurgence of bonus guarantees underscores just how difficult it is to control Wall Street pay, despite the public outcry over how taxpayer money is being spent. 
 And it is not the only tough decision Mr. Feinberg faces. He also must decide how much overall compensation is too much, even when the pay is tied to performance, like the $100 million package that Citigroup has promised to Andrew J. Hall, a top trader.
 But guaranteed pay poses a particular problem, some compensation experts say, because it is unhinged from financial results.
 ''Is Wall Street again going to overpromise, and then when the market turns down, we'll have another set of pay problems?'' asked Alan Johnson, a pay consultant who specializes in financial services. 
 For a short time, banks had stopped offering guarantees, after the financial crisis turned their profits into losses and as Washington began to scrutinize their use of public money. But now, with banks apparently rebounding after two consecutive profitable quarters, some have resumed the practice, arguing that such bonuses are needed to attract and retain top performers.
 Some of the biggest bonus commitments are being made to bond sales staff workers and traders in currencies and derivatives, and to computer programmers and others who support those operations. Trading has been the main source of the banks' recent profits.
 For now, the guarantees are roughly a third smaller than they were at the market's height in 2007, although they are bigger than they were last year, Mr. Johnson said. ''The absolute levels are by historical standards moderate, but it is a big change from where we were at the beginning of the year,'' he said.
 In Britain, where banks have begun to make similar guarantees, regulators have said they are concerned that the practice could lead to poor accountability. Last month, Britain's banking watchdog, the Financial Services Authority, sent bank chiefs a letter warning that the widespread use of guarantees ''may be inconsistent with effective risk management.''
 In the United States, banks like Citigroup and Bank of America have offered guarantees, arguing that they are necessary to attract new employees and keep existing ones. Indeed, foreign banks like Nomura Securities of Japan, Credit Suisse of Switzerland and Barclays Capital of Britain are making guarantees in hopes of poaching talent.
 Stronger banks that have repaid their bailout money and are not subject to Mr. Feinberg's restrictions -- like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley -- have also begun offering guarantees to star prospects. 
 Sanaz Zaimi, a former partner in the London office of Goldman Sachs, signed a multimillion-dollar contract recently with Bank of America that she told former associates was worth $15 million a year for two years and included a guarantee, according to a person with knowledge of her pay. 
 A Bank of America spokeswoman, Jessica Oppenheim, said that Ms. Zaimi's package had been guaranteed for only one year and she called the amount ''wildly exaggerated,'' but she declined to provide a figure. Ms. Zaimi could not be reached for comment. Bank of America also recently offered Bryan Weadock, a veteran bond salesman, a two-year guaranteed package worth roughly $6 million annually in cash and stock to leave JPMorgan, according to a person briefed on the offer. That figure is roughly twice the amount he earned the previous year. 
 ''Pay for performance is our standard,'' Ms. Oppenheim said. ''It's a competitive marketplace, and we will take the necessary steps to attract and retain top talent.''
 In the last few months, Citigroup has lured several senior derivatives traders -- including Dan Petherick, Rachel Lord and Stefanos Bitzakidis -- away from Morgan Stanley with multimillion-dollar, multiyear guarantees. 
 A Citigroup spokesman, Stephen Cohen, declined to comment on the agreements but said that attracting and retaining the best talent was ''very important'' to the success of Citi and all its stakeholders, including taxpayers. 
 The American International Group and GMAC, among the other recipients of multiple bailouts, are making similar offers. GMAC granted one-year guaranteed bonuses for about 15 executives, and A.I.G. is set to pay out about $281 million in guaranteed retention bonuses to scores of its sales staff.
 (The automakers General Motors and Chrysler, as well as Chrysler's finance arm, round out the list of companies that received multiple bailouts.)
 Some rivals of the bailed-out banks have already benefited from being out of reach of the government's pay czar. Jeff Michaels, the head of Citigroup's interest rate trading in the United States, found Nomura Securities knocking at his door in July with an offer that would guarantee him as much as $10 million for 2009 and 2010. That was nearly twice the $6 million bonus he received last year when he joined Citigroup from Lehman Brothers, according to a person briefed on the offer.
 A Nomura spokesman declined to comment on any of its recent hires.
 Morgan Stanley, after posting dismal second-quarter trading results, has been canvassing Wall Street trading units to bolster its ranks. After picking off currency and rate traders at JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank, it recently used one-year guarantees to hire three traders from Citigroup and approached several more with similar offers, according to two people with direct knowledge of the offers. 
 A Morgan Stanley spokesman said that one-year guarantees were often necessary to recruit people during the middle of the year, but that the bank rarely makes multiyear promises. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The White House pay czar, Kenneth Feinberg, is scrutinizing pay at seven companies that have received multiple bailouts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



256 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 431 words

BYLINE: By EMILY S. RUEB

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Newly Homeless
 With Dog in Tow
 Like other pet owners, Tony Aponte thinks of his 55-pound pit bull, Rocky, as his child. But after losing his apartment and moving into a homeless shelter, he was at a loss as to how to care for him. 
 ''It was heartbreaking,'' Mr. Aponte said. ''I felt like garbage because I couldn't take care of a family member.''
 Mr. Aponte, 48, lost his construction job in September. When his landlord suddenly needed the apartment back in November, Mr. Aponte and his partner, Jenny Jimenez, did not have enough money to find a new apartment.
 They ended up at a Bronx shelter in November, but pets were not allowed, so Rocky slept outside in Mr. Aponte's white van for the first week. 
 Mr. Aponte's mother, who lives in Florida, suggested putting Rocky down.
 ''I was like, why? What is wrong with the dog? He's not sick,'' Mr. Aponte said.
 Mr. Aponte turned to Pets for Life, a rescue program run by the Humane Society, which provides pet owners access to low-cost veterinary care, food, blankets and foster care.
 Jenny Olsen, an organizer for the program, took up the search for temporary housing. 
 The ''foster father'' she found, Amit Chaabra, is one of about 75 volunteer ''parents'' for the program. For nearly eight months, Mr. Chaabra cared for Rocky in his Midtown penthouse, with Mr. Aponte visiting often.
 Each year, more than 40,000 animals enter the city's Animal Care and Control system, said Patrick Kwan, the New York State director for the Pets for Life Program.
 ''In almost all cases it is cheaper to help people keep their animals using the free or low-cost services rather than surrender them,'' he said.
 The couple eventually found housing in the Bronx that allowed pets. And when they brought home Rocky, they took in another pit bull, Boi Boi, who was also living with Mr. Chaabra. And they hope to take in more. EMILY S. RUEB ALSO
 ONLINE
 INTERACTIVE: Reaching Out: For more coverage on the human side of the recession, visit the Living With Less guide, where readers can share their photos, moods and tips for weathering the economic downturn.
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of the Feast of the Assumption, alternate-side street-cleaning rules are suspended on Saturday.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Rose George, the author of ''The Big Necessity: The Unmentionable World of Human Waste and Why it Matters,'' will answer readers' questions about toilets, sewage and other topics about waste disposal in the city. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a video on the blog, Tony Aponte discusses life with Boi Boi, left, and Rocky. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETS (92%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); DOGS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); VETERINARY SERVICES (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); FOSTER CARE (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ANIMAL CONTROL (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RECESSION (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



257 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: A Silence, Now Coldly Permanent, in a Mill Town

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Me. 

 BODY:
 One day eight years ago, the cast-iron rollers in Augusta's last paper mill stopped rolling in the middle of the run. The absentee owners -- ''from away,'' as they say here -- sent word that it was merely a pause; the reassuring hum of spinning rollers would return in a few weeks.
 The mill's manager, Bob Jackson, promised the 80 frantic employees that he would keep them posted. And every day, he or an assistant would visit the quieted mill to perform the hopeful act of rotating a massive paper dryer by hand, to prevent warping and keep the bearings in shape. This way, it would be ready to roll at a moment's notice.
 ''Paper machines are difficult to shut down and start back up,'' Mr. Jackson explained. 
 The word that came after a few weeks was that the mill's owner, American Tissue, had filed for bankruptcy protection. What's more, federal investigators were assembling a strong case that the company's patriarch had orchestrated a $300 million bank and securities fraud.
 More time passed. The calls from employees wondering about their jobs petered out, but hopes of a new owner reopening the mill stayed faintly alive. So the daily ritual of spinning the dryer by hand continued -- for years. Through the summers, when red berries dotted the encroaching green brush; through the winters, when the looming emptiness conjured Stephen King thoughts.
 For a while, everything remained in place -- the tools, the rolls of paper, the two trucks -- as though workers were merely on an extended lunch break. But vandals and thieves grew bolder, breaking hundreds of windows, stripping copper from pipes to hock. Preferring the graveyard shift, they left behind signs of the strong work ethic they brought to looting: tools, lamps, even lunchboxes.
 In May 2006, a suspicious late-night fire at the mill forced a reckoning: this once-mighty economic engine had become a skeleton of brick, filled with toxic chemicals that posed threats to the community and the river. To echo the writer John McPhee, who years earlier had witnessed the removal of Augusta's mill-empowering Edwards Dam, it was time again for this city of 20,000 to say farewell to the 19th century, and perhaps to the 20th as well.
 No question, said Mr. Jackson, 62, who has spent most of his life working in paper mills around the country. ''It was never going to run,'' he said, his voice flat. ''I was basically tired of it anyway.''
 What followed was three years of preparing a body for burial, a body sprawled for nearly a mile along the banks of the Kennebec River.
 Environmental officials carted away truckloads of chemicals contained in large drums and glass jars, while a city-appointed American Tissue Reuse Committee held public hearings and talked to experts -- including Mr. Jackson -- before making its recommendations:
 Foreclose on the property. Tear down the mill. Consider replacing it with a mixed-use development that somehow celebrates the beautiful, restored river.
 That became the plan. But removing a mill is neither easy nor cheap. 
 Bill Bridgeo, Augusta's city manager, said that the loss of all those well-paying jobs has hardly been offset by many minimum-wage jobs at the nearby mall called the Marketplace at Augusta. And if you tally up the $600,000 in unpaid taxes, the costs to the state and federal governments for the cleanup, the legal fees, the planning -- ''It's in the millions,'' he said.
 Mr. Bridgeo and Mr. Jackson drove past the unmanned guard booth the other day and walked into a mill building's dark maw, where gray cabinets still contained nuts and bolts made for the mill's machinery. From close by came the rumble of machines, not heard on these grounds for a long time.
 The two men emerged from the other side of the building and into the daylight, where they could see the source of that rumble. It was not the mill's start-up but its tear-down, as the claws of a demolition company's machinery tore through brick walls that now seemed made of marzipan. 
 On the ground lay the bricks to a building built in 1903, but not considered by state officials to be worthy of preservation. It was standing just yesterday. 
 Go back 150 years and this capital city of Maine was a mill town. And on this riverside spot, a saw mill, receiving logs floated down the Kennebec. Soon there was a mishmash of businesses here, including a power and light company, a window-sash operation, a wooden-box manufacturer and a paper mill that would come to dominate the site.
 The company names would change, but the purpose remained relatively constant. Logs delivered by river and, later, by truck, would enter the mill, undergo lots of washing and cooking, rolling and steaming, and come out as newsprint or paper. It was like making bread.
 The mill was like a living thing, running round the clock, emitting sulfurous aromas, even humming. ''I lived a half-mile from the mill, and you'd hear the dryer gears humming,'' recalled Stephen Dowling, 56, who worked in the mill as an electrician from 1975 to 1985. ''It would almost put you to sleep.''
 Mr. Dowling has been the plant director at the Augusta Civic Center for nearly a quarter-century, but he still remembers the mill's 4 o'clock whistle, and the hangout run by Alice, who would cash your check so you could have a beer before heading home, and the mill worker who was crushed to death while trying to loosen a log jam. ''I knew the guy who had his hand out, but he couldn't get him,'' he said. 
 Most of all, Mr. Dowling remembers hundreds of good-paying jobs. ''It put a lot of sneakers on a lot of kids,'' he said.
 When Mr. Jackson arrived as a superintendent in 1993, the mill employed more than 500 people, all working to make tissue, towels and napkins out of recycled paper. Soon after, though, the mill closed, reopened, then closed again, as companies tried and failed. 
 Then, in 2000, American Tissue, a company that specialized in buying troubled mills at bargain prices, stepped in. Its principals, including a man named Mehdi Gabayzadeh, flew in from Long Island to say they would buy and reopen the mill if they could renegotiate a tax-payment schedule. City officials, of course, tried to accommodate.
 The mill hummed along for more than a year -- until the sudden closure. And the bankruptcy. And the unreturned telephone calls to American Tissue. And the conviction of Mr. Gabayzadeh, who is now serving a 15-year prison sentence for a fraud that caused the loss of thousands of jobs around the country. And, finally, the fire.
 Mr. Bridgeo, the city manager, and Mr. Jackson, the former mill manager, continued their walk. Past the mounds of metal set aside for salvage. Past the cast-iron drums bearing dates and origins of birth (Beloit Iron Works, Beloit, Wis., 1949). Past the old signs saying that eye protection is required in this area.
 But no eyes are tearing up. Before the start of demolition, the city opened the site to people wishing to pay their last respects. Mr. Jackson was there to lead tours and answer questions, but only 20 or 30 people showed up. ''Not near as many as I would have thought,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bob Jackson, above, who managed the American Tissue paper mill, spun a dryer by hand every day for years in hopes that the mill would reopen. Left, a work crew amid the debris from demolition of the mill, on the Kennebec River in Maine. Top, an abandoned mill truck, the mill as seen from across the river, and an old roll of tissue.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details Augusta, Maine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); PAPER MFG (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); CEMETERIES (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (91%) MAINE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



258 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: G.D.P. R.I.P.

BYLINE: By ERIC ZENCEY. 
Eric Zencey, a professor of historical and political studies at Empire State College, is the author of ''Virgin Forest: Meditations on History, Ecology and Culture'' and a novel, ''Panama.''

DATELINE: Montpelier, Vt. 

 BODY:
 IF there's a silver lining to our current economic downturn, it's this: With it comes what the economist Joseph Schumpeter called ''creative destruction,'' the failure of outmoded economic structures and their replacement by new, more suitable structures. Downturns have often given a last, fatality-inducing nudge to dying industries and technologies. Very few buggy manufacturers made it through the Great Depression. 
 Creative destruction can apply to economic concepts as well. And this downturn offers an excellent opportunity to get rid of one that has long outlived its usefulness: gross domestic product. G.D.P. is one measure of national income, of how much wealth Americans make, and it's a deeply foolish indicator of how the economy is doing. It ought to join buggy whips and VCRs on the dust-heap of history. 
 The first official attempt to determine our national income was made in 1934; the goal was to measure all economic production involving Americans whether they were at home or abroad. In 1991, the Bureau of Economic Analysis switched from gross national product to gross domestic product to reflect a changed economic reality -- as trade increased, and as foreign companies built factories here, it became apparent that we ought to measure what gets made in the United States, no matter who makes it or where it goes after it's made. 
 Since then it has become probably our most commonly cited economic indicator, the basic number that we take as a measure of how well we're doing economically from year to year and quarter to quarter. But it is a miserable failure at representing our economic reality. 
 To begin with, gross domestic product excludes a great deal of production that has economic value. Neither volunteer work nor unpaid domestic services (housework, child rearing, do-it-yourself home improvement) make it into the accounts, and our standard of living, our general level of economic well-being, benefits mightily from both. Nor does it include the huge economic benefit that we get directly, outside of any market, from nature. A mundane example: If you let the sun dry your clothes, the service is free and doesn't show up in our domestic product; if you throw your laundry in the dryer, you burn fossil fuel, increase your carbon footprint, make the economy more unsustainable -- and give G.D.P. a bit of a bump. 
 In general, the replacement of natural-capital services (like sun-drying clothes, or the propagation of fish, or flood control and water purification) with built-capital services (like those from a clothes dryer, or an industrial fish farm, or from levees, dams and treatment plants) is a bad trade -- built capital is costly, doesn't maintain itself, and in many cases provides an inferior, less-certain service. But in gross domestic product, every instance of replacement of a natural-capital service with a built-capital service shows up as a good thing, an increase in national economic activity. Is it any wonder that we now face a global crisis in the form of a pressing scarcity of natural-capital services of all kinds?
 This points to the larger, deeper flaw in using a measurement of national income as an indicator of economic well-being. In summing all economic activity in the economy, gross domestic product makes no distinction between items that are costs and items that are benefits. If you get into a fender-bender and have your car fixed, G.D.P. goes up. 
 A similarly counterintuitive result comes from other kinds of defensive and remedial spending, like health care, pollution abatement, flood control and costs associated with population growth and increasing urbanization -- including crime prevention, highway construction, water treatment and school expansion. Expenditures on all of these increase gross domestic product, although mostly what we aim to buy isn't an improved standard of living but the restoration or protection of the quality of life we already had. 
 The amounts involved are not nickel-and-dime stuff. Hurricane Katrina produced something like $82 billion in damages in New Orleans, and as the destruction there is remedied, G.D.P. goes up. Some of the remedial spending on the Gulf Coast does represent a positive change to economic well-being, as old appliances and carpets and cars are replaced by new, presumably improved, ones. But much of the expense leaves the community no better off (indeed, sometimes worse off) than before. 
 Consider the 50 miles of sponge-like wetlands between New Orleans and the Gulf Coast that once protected the city from storm surges. When those bayous were lost to development -- sliced to death by channels to move oil rigs, mostly -- gross domestic product went up, even as these ''improvements'' destroyed the city's natural defenses and wiped out crucial spawning ground for the Gulf Coast shrimp fishery. The bayous were a form of natural capital, and their loss was a cost that never entered into any account -- not G.D.P. or anything else. 
 Wise decisions depend on accurate assessments of the costs and benefits of different courses of action. If we don't count ecosystem services as a benefit in our basic measure of well-being, their loss can't be counted as a cost -- and then economic decision-making can't help but lead us to undesirable and perversely un-economic outcomes. 
 The basic problem is that gross domestic product measures activity, not benefit. If you kept your checkbook the way G.D.P. measures the national accounts, you'd record all the money deposited into your account, make entries for every check you write, and then add all the numbers together. The resulting bottom line might tell you something useful about the total cash flow of your household, but it's not going to tell you whether you're better off this month than last or, indeed, whether you're solvent or going broke. 
 BECAUSE we use such a flawed measure of economic well-being, it's foolish to pursue policies whose primary purpose is to raise it. Doing so is an instance of the fallacy of misplaced concreteness -- mistaking the map for the terrain, or treating an instrument reading as though it were the reality rather than a representation. When you're feeling a little chilly in your living room, you don't hold a match to a thermometer and then claim that the room has gotten warmer. But that's what we do when we seek to improve economic well-being by prodding G.D.P.
 Several alternatives to gross domestic product have been proposed, and each tackles the central problem of placing a value on goods and services that never had a dollar price. The alternatives are controversial, because that kind of valuation creates room for subjectivity -- for the expression of personal values, of ideology and political belief. 
 How, after all, do we judge what exactly was the value of the services provided by those bayous in Louisiana? Was it $82 billion? But what about the value of the shrimp fishery that was already lost before the hurricane? What about the insurance value of the protection the bayous offered against another $82 billion loss? What about the security and sense of continuity of life enjoyed by the thousands of people who lived and made their livelihoods in relation to those bayous before they disappeared? It's admittedly difficult to set a dollar price on such things -- but this is no reason to set that price at zero, as gross domestic product currently does. 
 Common sense tells us that if we want an accurate accounting of change in our level of economic well-being we need to subtract costs from benefits and count all costs, including those of ecosystem services when they are lost to development. These include storm and flood protection, water purification and delivery, maintenance of soil fertility, pollination of plants and regulation of our climate on a global and local scale. (One recent estimate puts the minimum market value of all such natural-capital services at $33 trillion per year.) 
 Nature has aesthetic and moral value as well; some of us experience awe, wonder and humility in our encounters with it. But we don't have to go so far as to include such subjective intangibles in order to fix the national income accounts. As stressed ecosystems worldwide disappear, it will get easier and easier to assign a nonsubjective valuation to them; and value them we must if we are to keep them at all. No civilization can survive their loss.
 Given the fundamental problems with G.D.P. as a leading economic indicator, and our habit of taking it as a measurement of economic welfare, we should drop it altogether. We could keep the actual number, but rename it to make clearer what it represents; let's call it gross domestic transactions. Few people would mistake a measurement of gross transactions for a measurement of general welfare. And the renaming would create room for acceptance of a new measurement, one that more accurately signals changes in the level of economic well-being we enjoy. 
 Our use of total productivity as our main economic indicator isn't mandated by law, which is why it would be fairly easy for President Obama to convene a panel of economists and other experts to join the Bureau of Economic Analysis in creating a new, more accurate measure. Call it net economic welfare. On the benefit side would go such nonmarket goods as unpaid domestic work and ecosystem services; on the debit side would go defensive and remedial expenditures that don't improve our standard of living, along with the loss of ecosystem services, and the money we spend to try to replace them. 
 In 1934, the economist Simon Kuznets, in his very first report of national income to Congress, warned that ''the welfare of a nation can ... scarcely be inferred from a measure of national income.'' Just as this crisis gives us the opportunity to end the nature-be-damned, more-is-always-better economy that flourished when oil was cheap and plentiful, we can finally act on Kuznets's wise warning. We're in an economic hole, and as we climb out, what we need is not simply a measurement of how much money passes through our hands each quarter, but an indicator that will tell us if we are really and truly gaining ground in the perennial struggle to improve the material conditions of our lives.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS FELTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (72%); VOLUNTEERS (62%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (62%); AQUACULTURE (60%); FINFISH FARMING (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (60%); FLOOD CONTROL (60%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (59%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



259 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Film Festival in the Cross Hairs

BYLINE: By DAN LEVIN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
The Chinese flag that defaced the Melbourne International Film Festival's hacked Web site on July 25 came with a warning: ''We like film but we hate Rebiya Kadeer! We like peace and we hate East Turkistan terrorist! Please apologize to all the Chinese people!'' 
 A week later 400 Internet users, many traced to China, knocked out the ticketing system on the site, melbournefilmfestival.com.au, in a series of attacks that made it appear as if 125 screenings at the Australian festival were sold out. The cyber assaults and other actions were a protest against the appearance of Ms. Kadeer, the Uighur leader, at a screening on Saturday of ''The 10 Conditions of Love,'' a documentary about her life.
 The Chinese government has accused Ms. Kadeer of inciting the ethnic violence between Muslim Uighurs and Han Chinese in the Xinjiang region of northwest China that claimed at least 197 lives last month. Ms. Kadeer, who lives in exile in the United States, has denied any involvement. 
 Yet the controversy served only to bolster interest in the film and Ms. Kadeer's appearance. To meet the demand, festival organizers moved the film's sold-out premiere to the city's 1,500-seat Town Hall, where on Saturday a dozen pro-China demonstrators were vastly outnumbered by the line of ticketholders waiting to see the film. Although Ms. Kadeer entered through the back, and the police intervened between some pro-Chinese-government and pro-Uighur protesters outside, the screening went smoothly.
 Nevertheless the campaign against the festival, which ended Sunday, is raising concerns among Westerners -- and some Chinese -- over whether the intimidation will have a lasting effect on global artistic expression as China grows increasingly assertive on the world stage. 
 Chinese government officials had demanded that Australia ''immediately correct its wrongdoings'' by canceling the screening and Ms. Kadeer's visa. When those requests were ignored, the Chinese government threatened on Friday to sever Melbourne's sister-city ties with the Chinese city of Tianjin.
 Seven Chinese-language films from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan were withdrawn, their directors saying the festival had become too politicized. One filmmaker, Tang Xiaobai, said that the Chinese Foreign Ministry and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television had alerted her about the Kadeer film but denied she was forced to boycott the festival, according to China Daily, the official English-language newspaper. 
 In Melbourne festival organizers complained of being harassed outside the organization's offices and receiving a flood of angry e-mail messages and faxes, including death threats and photos of dead kangaroos. Festival publicists told of receiving frightening phone calls in the middle of the night. 
 The festival added security and reported losing about $50,000 because of the hacking, which prevented patrons from buying tickets. Some members of the Melbourne City Council, apparently fearful of the potential economic impact of China's threats, supported banning the film, according to The Age, an Australian newspaper.
 Richard Moore, the festival's executive director, said he worried that the episode might dissuade other festivals from scheduling films that could offend Chinese sensibilities. 
 ''They're going to have to think about the issue of self-censorship if they are more interested in avoiding disagreements with countries like China,'' he said. 
 Other festivals around the world have already withdrawn support for the film, said its director, Jeff Daniels. ''Where does this stop?'' he asked. ''This is just a film festival. What's next?'' 
 The outrage over the screening follows a wave of activism prompted by riots in Tibet last year, when many Chinese protested what they saw as rampant anti-China bias in the Western media. To them inviting Ms. Kadeer to appear so soon after the blood was washed off the streets of Urumqi amounts to an endorsement of her alleged role in the violence and an insult to the Chinese people. 
 Zhou Yu, a 24-year-old computer programmer from Nanjing, said he hacked into the festival's Web site and defaced it with a Chinese flag to defend his country's honor. ''The government's protests were useless,'' he said by e-mail. ''It's patriotic to use my own skills as a common citizen to fight back.'' 
 Mr. Zhou said that while he had not seen ''The 10 Conditions of Love,'' he believed the film was factually inaccurate. ''This movie distorts history, confuses and poisons people's minds and impacts national unity,'' he said. His actions have drawn widespread praise from many Chinese, although there seems to be little room for divergent views on the matter. On Kaixin, a popular social-networking Web site here, a recent poll asked visitors to weigh in on Mr. Zhou's actions but gave only two choices: ''support'' and ''super support.'' 
 The episode throws into sharp relief the deep divide over how many Chinese and Westerners view artistic expression. 
 Rebecca MacKinnon, an assistant professor in the University of Hong Kong's Journalism and Media Studies Center, noted that for generations film, theater and literature had been little more than tools in the Chinese government's propaganda arsenal. Many Chinese, she said, simply have no firsthand experience of uncensored art. 
 ''This is part of a larger argument about whether true creativity and artistic expression are possible under authoritarian regimes,'' she said. 
 Such views, of course, are not universal. Zhang Xianmin, a professor at the Beijing Film Academy, said it was ''ridiculous'' that Chinese directors pulled their films from the festival. ''Film is a way to share and communicate ideas,'' he said. 
 But film is also a business, one that is becoming increasingly lucrative in China, even if the government strictly controls which movies make it to the screen and often censors their content. 
 According to official data the box-office take here grew an average of 25 percent annually during the past five years. Last year ticket sales soared by 30 percent to about $629 million. 
 For filmmakers dependent on the booming mainland market, which includes those from Hong Kong and Taiwan, the prospect of financial ruin may be reason enough to heed the government's expectations. 
 ''If you were a Chinese director whose films could live or die by approval of the film bureau, and it took the trouble of bringing this to your attention,'' said Jonathan Landreth, The Hollywood Reporter's Beijing correspondent, ''would you not connect the dots?'' 
 Other film festivals are watching the events in Melbourne closely, although many organizers said the uproar would have no impact on their selections. ''Film festivals are a way to encourage discussion and make people aware of what's happening in the world,'' Mark Fishkin, executive director of the Mill Valley Film Festival in California, said. 
 Last year the Chinese government asked Mr. Fishkin to remove the film ''Fire Under the Snow,'' a documentary about a Tibetan monk who was imprisoned in China for 33 years, from the festival lineup. He refused. 
 While China will most likely continue to pressure festivals and filmmakers, Mr. Fishkin said he hopes such efforts backfire. ''The Chinese could receive so much negative publicity over this that as a member of world community it may just not be worth it,'' he said. ''But I may just be playing the optimist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of the Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer at the Town Hall in Melbourne, where Ms. Kadeer was visiting a film festival on Saturday. Others protested Ms. Kadeer's appearance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CROSLING/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Rebiya Kadeer speaking Saturday at the Melbourne premiere of a film about her life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CROCK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TICKET SALES (76%); BOYCOTTS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); TERRORISM (72%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); CITY LIFE (66%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); AUSTRALIA (94%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

TITLE: 10 Conditions of Love, The (Movie); 10 Conditions of Love, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



260 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Airspace Above Hudson River Is a Highway With Few Signs

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Reporting was contributed by James Barron, Joseph Berger, Russ Buettner, Ann Farmer, Jason Grant, Derrick Henry, Jennifer Mascia, Patrick McGeehan, Colin Moynihan, Liz Robbins, Nate Schweber and Matthew L. Wald.

 BODY:
Steven J. Korotky, a flight instructor, called the uncontrolled Hudson River air traffic corridor a ''tunnel,'' and a tight one at that.
 Kenneth Jacobsen, who has been flying privately chartered helicopters in New York since 1982, said that while he considered aviation safe in the congested skies above the river, there could be a dozen or so aircraft to contend with at peak moments.
 And Dan Rose, a former Navy pilot, said the electronic warning system in his Cirrus SR-22 squawks its warning -- ''Traffic, Traffic'' -- so frequently on weekend flights through the Hudson air route that his head, he said, is ''constantly on a swivel.''
 Calls for another examination of the issue were re-ignited over the weekend after a small fixed-wing airplane collided with a New York sightseeing helicopter in the air corridor on Saturday, killing nine people. 
 Over the years, the air above the Hudson River, from the estuary's surface to an altitude of 1,100 feet, and the business at the heart of it -- helicopters conducting tours -- has not escaped calls for greater government control.
 The Department of Transportation, for instance, has determined that privately chartered aircraft like the helicopters working along the Hudson are less safe and less regulated than major carriers, and called for action. Senator Charles E. Schumer in 2005 called for shutting the Hudson River corridor entirely to general aviation traffic after a wayward plane caused a security scare.
 ''We came to the conclusion that it was the Wild West out there, totally unregulated, and no one knows where these pilots are, no one has a flight plan, it is so congested,'' said Robert M. Gottheim, district manager for Congressman Jerrold L. Nadler, who represents the West Side of Manhattan.
 On Sunday, officials from the National Transportation Safety Board and the Federal Aviation Administration said they would gather facts, review the circumstances of the crash and work to impose any regulatory responses that were warranted.
 ''The reason we are a party to the investigation is so that if we determine there are any safety issues that need to be acted on, we can take those actions,'' said Laura J. Brown, the chief spokeswoman for the F.A.A. Ms. Brown said the agency had done just that after a fatal 2006 plane crash on the East Side of Manhattan, in the Hudson River corridor's sister airspace.
 On Sunday, as elected officials issued statements and investigators pored over the first bits of radar data and aircraft remains, recovery workers on the Hudson River continued to retrieve the helicopter, the plane and the bodies of the victims. By evening, the helicopter had been brought ashore, seven bodies had been retrieved and sonar readings suggested that the submerged plane had been located.
 In a news briefing, Deborah A. P. Hersman, the safety board chairwoman, said it appeared that the pilots of both the airplane -- a 1976 Piper PA 32R-300, known as a Lance -- as well as the helicopter -- a 1997 Eurocopter AS 350BA -- were properly licensed.
 She said both also had had the proper medical examinations: the private pilot, Steven M. Altman, 60, was required to have a medical exam once every three years by a properly qualified doctor, and his last one was in May; the helicopter pilot, Jeremy Clarke, was required to have a medical exam every year because of his status as a commercial pilot. Records show Mr. Clarke, a native of New Zealand, had logged some 2,700 hours as a helicopter pilot, and was licensed as well to serve as an instructor. 
 The investigation into the crash, unlike inquiries into accidents involving large commercial jetliners, is hampered because neither the airplane nor the helicopter was required to carry so-called black boxes: a flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder.
 But the safety board did lay out a preliminary chronology of the brief flight of the Lance -- including the fact that when the plane was told to contact Newark Liberty International Airport, controllers there heard only silence.
 According to Ms. Hersman, the plane's pilot was cleared for takeoff at 11:49 a.m. at Teterboro Airport, and at 11:52 a.m., controllers at Teterboro completed an ''electronic handoff'' to controllers at Newark, giving Newark responsibility for tracking it.
 At the time of the handoff, controllers at Teterboro told the pilot to change communication frequencies and contact the air traffic control tower at Newark. The last radar contact with the plane was about a minute later, at 14 seconds past 11:53 a.m., when the plane was at 1,100 feet.
 The pilot never contacted Newark. It is unclear why the controllers heard nothing from him.
 Once a plane is under 1,000 feet and over the Hudson, airport air traffic controllers lack the ability to issue orders to keep airplanes separated. Thus, all pilots in the area are responsible for avoiding collisions -- using the tactic ''see and avoid.''
 In the absence of definitive findings about the crash's cause, debate again unfolded about the air corridor above the Hudson and what regulatory changes for helicopters and airplanes might be considered.
 Meanwhile, some pilots familiar with what they described as the air highway over the river offered their analyses -- and their prescriptions for improving the airspace.
 Mr. Rose, a pilot who is also an aviation lawyer, noted that planes designed with a ''low wing'' design, like the Lance, are often vulnerable because pilots have difficulty seeing below them. At the same time, the rotors on top of helicopters -- which usually fly lower than airplanes -- make it hard for those pilots to see above them. He said the resulting ''blind zone'' is dangerous.
 ''Low wing and high wing,'' he said. ''Those tend to be the midair collision pairing, if you will.''
 Whether the helicopter was in any way at fault, sightseeing helicopters make up much of the air traffic in the corridor. Half of the city's helicopter flights are for sightseeing purposes, according to Eastern Region Helicopter Council, a pilots' group.
 ''New York has the largest and most heavily used helicopter infrastructure of major cities,'' said Robert W. Mann, president of R. W. Mann & Company, an airline industry analysis and consulting firm.
 The East 34th Street heliport handles about 10,000 flights a year, according to the pilots' group. The heliport at West 30th Street, which primarily offers sightseeing flights, has about 25,000 flights, and a financial district heliport has about 22,500 flights annually, the group said.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a licensed pilot who has flown over the Hudson River, indicated in a television interview that he was open to changes to the rules governing the corridor, but said it would be up to federal authorities. Still, he noted the helicopters' role in the city's economy.
 ''Helicopters are very important to the city and used all the time,'' the mayor said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC. ''Tourists seem to love it.''
 But such flights have drawn the scrutiny of government officials. Last month, for example, a report issued by the Transportation Department's inspector general found that fatal accidents happen on flights of small, privately chartered aircraft, a category that includes helicopters, at 50 times the rate of commercial carriers.
 Aviation groups have frequently warned about dangers from such flights, which travel with 30 passengers or fewer and are collectively known as on-demand aviation. But many of the F.A.A.'s rules for such flights have not been updated since 1978, and the regulator has yet to institute 16 safety recommendations issued by the safety board since 2002. 
 Under the current rules, the pilots and crew for these flights can be less experienced, and made to work longer hours, than their counterparts on commercial carriers. The planes themselves are subject to less stringent maintenance standards, and they are not required to install advanced navigation aids that are mandatory on commercial planes. In a formal reply to the Transportation Department's report, the F.A.A. said it agreed with the report's recommendations, but the regulator had no plans to significantly modify its policies.
 Mr. Schumer said on Sunday that he had long considered the ''virtually unregulated'' flight traffic over the Hudson a safety and security risk. Wherever the investigation leads, he said, ''the F.A.A., along with the N.T.S.B. and other relevant agencies, must take a long look at toughening up flight restrictions and monitoring of the Hudson River airspace in order to avoid another tragedy.''
 But many pilots defended the essential safety of the corridor and pointed to the relative rarity of significant accidents. Saturday's collision was the third fatal helicopter accident in New York City since 1990, according to the safety board's online records. Since the 1960s, nine fatal accidents have occurred in the city.
 ''We're one of the most heavily regulated industries in the aviation business,'' said Jeffery Smith, chairman of the Eastern Region Helicopter Council. ''Our safety record speaks for itself.''
 Mr. Jacobsen, the helicopter pilot, said one troubled area in the skies above the Hudson are private planes that seem unfamiliar with the corridor.
 ''It's not so much looking at the other helicopters,'' Mr. Jacobsen said. ''It's watching for the little Pipers. Private planes fly into this area, and they're not aware of the local nuances of flying in the New York area.''
 Len Levy, the president of the Skywagon Flying Club, based at the Morristown Municipal Airport in New Jersey, said he had been taking friends for tours above the Hudson for more than 25 years. He said he found traffic nominal and conditions safe.
 ''It would be a pity to have the corridor closed because of one accident,'' Mr. Levy said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a debate over restricting the airspace above the Hudson River following the collision on Saturday of a small airplane and a sightseeing helicopter misstated the frequency of the medical exams required of Steven Altman, 60, the pilot of the plane. He had to have an exam once every two years, not three. (Pilots of private planes who are younger than 40 are required to have an examination every five years. And the pilot of the helicopter, Jeremy Clarke, was required to have a medical exam every year because of his status as a commercial pilot.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wreckage from a helicopter was pulled Sunday from the Hudson River off Hoboken, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
A piece of helicopter wreckage being lifted Sunday onto a barge in the Hudson River off Hoboken, N.J., one day after nine people died in a midair collision between the copter and a light plane. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL ERWICH/GETTY IMAGES)
 Police officers kept watch over recovered debris. The two aircraft may have been in a ''blind zone,'' an ex-Navy pilot said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP EAST/REUTERS) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (91%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); RIVERS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); SONAR SYSTEMS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); JERROLD NADLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



261 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Bringing America's Trains Up to Speed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re: ''America's Not-So-Fast Trains'' (editorial, Aug. 1):
 Development of a high-speed passenger rail system should be a national priority and is long overdue. In the midst of our nation's worst economic malaise since the Great Depression, is there any better time for the federal government to undertake a plan that would lessen congestion on our highways and at our airports, reduce our reliance on foreign oil and create plenty of jobs? 
 Yes, there will be eminent domain debates and opposition from ''not in my backyard'' property owners, but these issues could be minimized through effective planning and management. 
 The tougher battles may be with the auto and aviation industries, whose businesses are already under duress and who have historically lobbied against expansion of high-speed train systems. 
 They should be made part of a government-private enterprise partnership to build the railcars and operate the network. Their expertise in manufacturing and high-speed travel might just come in handy.
 Michael N. Chernick Montclair, N.J., Aug. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 You are right to note in your editorial that railroads reduce highway congestion and decrease air pollution. But if this country is to build an environmentally sound 21st-century transportation system, then high-speed rail is only part of the solution.
 We can ease the congestion that chokes our highways by moving more freight by rail. If just 10 percent of freight currently moved by highway switched to rail, national fuel savings would exceed one billion gallons a year, and greenhouse gas emissions would fall by 12 million tons.
 Senators John D. Rockefeller IV and Frank R. Lautenberg understand how much railroads relieve congestion and reduce pollution. Their bill, the Federal Surface Transportation Policy and Planning Act of 2009, calls for a 10 percent shift in freight traffic from trucks to nonhighway modes, like railroads, by 2020. Good public policy will deliver the 21st-century transportation system America needs.
 Edward R. Hamberger President and Chief Executive Association of American Railroads Washington, Aug. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The policies that have favored highways and air travel over rail for decades have put us in a real bind as a country. It's time we woke up to the fact that we can and must do better.
 It's not just about high-speed rail; it's about more local service and mass transit. It's about tying together the systems we have so they can support one another rather than competing -- rail links to airports, combined rail and bus stations and so on.
 It's about adding better connections between cities and adding more local stations so there are more entry points into rail passenger service. It's about providing enough service on a frequent-enough schedule to build ridership.
 And it's about fixing aging infrastructure threatening freight as well as passenger rail service. It's about adding more tracks and routes around choke points to reduce congestion on freight rail lines -- the better to get truck traffic off the highways and reduce our energy consumption.
 High-speed rail is a good thing, but it's not the only thing. Not by bullet trains alone will we find the ''magic bullet'' to get America moving again.
 Larry Roth Ravena, N.Y., Aug. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 High-speed rail has been studied and planned to death in this country. The only way to make it happen is to build a system. Pick one of the 278 plans submitted to the Department of Transportation and build that system.
 Once Americans see their fellow citizens zipping from place to place at 180 miles an hour, all doubts will evaporate, and a nationwide high-speed rail system will soon be a reality.
 Michael Paluszek Plainsboro, N.J., Aug. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 One of the problems in getting a high-speed rail network for the nation is the support it requires from individual state representatives. When I suggested to a local representative that he talk to legislators in states that would be the links in a high-speed rail line connecting Chicago to Miami with dedicated tracks, it was treated more or less as pie in the sky.
 Just imagine being able to travel from Louisville to downtown Chicago in two hours by rail -- without the hassle of going through airport security and the frequent airline delays because of weather or mechanical problems. It wouldn't just be a boon to the environment, but would actually shorten travel time in some cases.
 Our representatives should start taking the long view, rather than regarding rail travel in the country's interior as something only for rail aficionados.
 Stanley Collyer Louisville, Ky., Aug. 1, 2009
 The writer is the editor of Competitions magazine, which covers urban planning as well as architecture and landscape architecture.
 To the Editor:
 A major investment in high-speed rail in New York would most likely focus first on the Hudson River shore from Manhattan to Albany. This would ruin the lovely Hudson River Valley, in terms of lifestyle and environment.
 A modern high-speed rail line would allow a commute from mid-Hudson towns like Poughkeepsie to Midtown Manhattan in less time than it takes by subway from the Bronx, perhaps under a half hour.
 The curse of urban sprawl would spread all the way to Saratoga. Say goodbye to lovely landscapes and nice communities. Say hello to the next Nassau County, Queens or Yonkers. I say, not so fast.
 Josh Koenig Cropseyville, N.Y., Aug. 1, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSH COCHRAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (93%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); LOBBYING (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); AIR FREIGHT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); RAIL FREIGHT (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (72%); EMINENT DOMAIN (71%); AIR POLLUTION (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (56%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



262 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic Yards' Developer Races a Court Hearing, a Bond Deadline and Opponents

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
As the usual tumult greeted the final public hearings on the Atlantic Yards development last month, it was business as usual for the developer Bruce C. Ratner. 
 He visited three rating agencies in preparation for selling bonds this fall to finance the first project in the 22-acre development near Downtown Brooklyn: an $800 million, 18,000-seat arena for the New Jersey Nets.
 He flew to Moscow to meet with the billionaire Mikhail D. Prokhorov about investing in the money-losing Nets. 
 He went to and from City Hall and the state's economic development offices on Third Avenue to complete the paperwork for the Atlantic Yards development and to start work on the arena.
 ''We are racing to the finish line,'' Mr. Ratner said in an interview as the public hearing drew to a close. ''Our sense is that while this project was important five years ago, it has become even more important given the economy and the job situation in the city.''
 Aside from the rebuilding of the World Trade Center, Atlantic Yards is the largest project in the city moving forward. The redevelopment of the 26-acre Hudson Yards in Manhattan and dozens of other projects have been slowed or stopped by a flagging economy and a lack of real estate financing.
 But Mr. Ratner must clear a number of important hurdles before starting construction of the arena and the first four residential towers.
 There is an Oct. 14 hearing before the state's highest court, where opponents hope to scuttle Atlantic Yards by challenging the state's use of eminent domain. Beyond that, there is a looming deadline: he must get the financing done and start work by Dec. 31 in order to qualify for a much needed tax-exempt bond status and hold on to a $400 million naming-rights deal with Barclays Bank for the arena.
 Mr. Ratner acknowledged that he was also seeking additional investors for the Nets, but he said he and his company would retain a substantial stake in the team, which he hopes to move to Brooklyn during the 2011-12 season.
 Mr. Ratner has already pared back the cost of the arena from $1 billion and replaced the original architect, Frank Gehry, with the firm of Ellerbe Becket, which has designed a number of basketball arenas. At the same time, he struck new agreements with both the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which owns the railroad yard where Mr. Ratner wants to build the arena, and the state to revise his original plans.
 Officials have given him more time to build eight acres of publicly accessible open space and as many as 16 buildings and 6,400 apartments, while allowing him to replace the railyard with a smaller, less expensive yard than originally planned. About 40 percent of the housing would be built for low-, moderate- and middle-income families.
 Critics, led by the group Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, contend that Atlantic Yards will overwhelm the neighborhood and unfairly benefit a developer who they say has received too many subsidies, including $305 million from the city and the state, along with tens of millions of dollars in tax breaks.
 The Court of Appeals has set an Oct. 14 date for oral arguments: some local property owners are challenging a unanimous lower court decision approving the state's use of eminent domain. Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy and one of the property owners, said ''the project is dead'' if their appeal is successful. A decision is expected in November.
 Regardless, he added, ''We plan on bringing at least two more significant lawsuits against the phantom project,'' a reference to the developer's failure to release new images of his buildings after scrapping the original designs.
 Mr. Ratner said he expected to release new images of the arena before Labor Day. ''I think the final architecture will be really beautiful,'' he said.
 The developer disputed critics who claim that he may never build the parks and affordable housing that he once promised, now that the expected completion date has been pushed out to 2019, from 2016. Mr. Ratner said there was a continuing need for affordable housing for the city's teachers, nurses, firefighters and hotel workers. 
 ''There is a stable and steady group of takers for work-force housing in the city,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''The goal is not just to create the required amount but possibly more than that.''
 In recent weeks, the developer has sought additional housing subsidies from city officials, who have so far declined to go beyond the standard incentives for developers. The project's underwriters, led by Goldman Sachs, are also preparing to sell about $700 million in bonds for the arena in October. 
 Some real estate executives and critics said it would be hard to sell the bonds for such an uncertain project. But Jay Abrams, a bond analyst at FMS Bonds, said there ''is definitely an appetite for tax-exempt bonds in New York, and elsewhere.'' The lawsuit, he added, ''is not necessarily a game-killer. At the right price, there's always a buyer for bonds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators rallied against Bruce C. Ratner's Atlantic Yards development on July 29. A court hearing on the Brooklyn project is scheduled for Oct. 14. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BASKETBALL (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



263 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include productivity for the second quarter and wholesale trade for June (Tuesday); the trade deficit for June (Wednesday); retail sales for July, import prices for July and business inventories for June (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for July and industrial production for July (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Dish Network, Dynegy and Liberty Media (Monday); Warnaco (Tuesday); Liz Claiborne, Macy's and Sara Lee (Wednesday); Blockbuster, Kohl's, Nordstrom and Wal-Mart Stores (Thursday); and Abercrombie & Fitch and JCPenney (Friday).
 ET CETERA The Securities and Exchange Commission appears before Judge Jed S. Rakoff, above, of Federal District Court in Manhattan, to defend its proposed $33 million settlement with Bank of America over bonuses promised to Merrill Lynch employees (Monday).
 The Federal Open Market Committee meets for two days starting on Tuesday, with a statement coming on Wednesday.
 Republic Airways and Southwest Airlines are expected to face off in an auction for Frontier Airlines (Tuesday).
 Frank DiPascali, the chief financial officer at Bernard L. Madoff's investment advisory business, is expected to plead guilty to charges in connection with Mr. Madoff's $65 billion Ponzi scheme (Tuesday).
 UBS and the Justice Department are expected to update a federal judge on talks to settle a suit demanding that the bank turn over the names of 52,000 clients suspected of evading taxes (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); TAX FRAUD (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); JUDGES (74%); AIRLINES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); PONZI SCHEMES (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); DYNEGY INC (57%); DISH NETWORK CORP (57%); WARNACO GROUP INC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); DYN (NYSE) (57%); DISH (NASDAQ) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



264 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor and the Myths: A Case of Political Survival

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
As he neared the screening room that would show ''The Nine Lives of Marion Barry'' last Thursday evening, the subject of the documentary was surrounded by photographers. Standing against a wall on the 15th floor of HBO headquarters in Manhattan overlooking Bryant Park, Mr. Barry was engaging and cooperative, posing as the occasion required. But between camera flashes, he was scanning the room, looking for friends, enemies, threats and opportunities. 
 Few understand a room like Mr. Barry. And he will, soon enough, own this one, as he has so many others in a career that has spanned five decades and included four terms as mayor of Washington, a trip to federal prison for possession of cocaine, and his current position as a City Council member in the capital. Throughout it all he has displayed an almost feral gift for retail politics: a quiet sidebar conversation here, a big-clap hug there and always, always, even now at 73, lavishing attention on the women in the room. 
 As the documentary, which has its premiere on HBO Monday night, demonstrates, there have always been substantial gifts behind the cartoon, one etched by Mr. Barry's penchant for profound personal pratfalls. His ability to connect with people at both the Four Seasons Hotel in Georgetown and the Players Lounge in Anacostia was used mostly in the service of his political survival. 
 After a youth of extreme poverty (which included picking cotton) in Itta Bena, Miss. -- ''dirt, dirt, dirt poor'' he says in the documentary -- Mr. Barry became an Eagle Scout and earned a master's degree in chemistry at Fisk University in Nashville. But his head was turned by the civil rights movement after he got involved in the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and he quit a doctoral program in chemistry at the University of Tennessee. In 1965 he moved to Washington and commenced an enduring affair with a city that was then a ward of the federal government. 
 Mr. Barry has the reputation of being a less than scintillating interview, and a conversation on Thursday evening did little to change that view. He tends to lean on platitudes and civil rights movement aphorisms to describe his ''50 years of public service that served as a blueprint for those who came later'' while continuing to blame most of his legal problems on his opponents. The news media have generally not been friends to Mr. Barry, nor has the federal government, a persistent antagonist throughout his career. He maintains that the United States Attorney's Office, in enticing him to a hotel room where drugs were present back in 1990, was trying to kill him. 
 In the documentary directed and produced by Dana Flor and Toby Oppenheimer, it is clear that age has caught up to Mr. Barry. Afflicted with high blood pressure and diabetes, and having had his prostate removed, he often moves slowly and cat-naps between appearances. Watching him in the documentary is a little like witnessing Willie Mays no longer able to run down a fly ball, but he was completely on his game for the premiere. He looked and seemed sharp as he greeted newcomers and old friends, including Jim Vance, the long-time anchor at WRC-TV in Washington, who said his daughter served as one of the producers on the film.
 ''We continue to be fascinated by the mayor because never has someone who has flown so high been brought so low, and someone who was so low gone so high again,'' Mr. Vance said. ''We all know how difficult the mayor can be to interview, but the documentary does give you insights to how it all happened.''
 Mr. Barry has never been especially enlightening on the subject of himself or his contretemps, and the documentary reflects his absence of self-awareness. But Mr. Barry's ex-wife, Effi Barry, an elegant and eloquent woman who divorced him in 1993, is a steady and telling presence throughout the documentary. (Effi Barry, who died in 2007, was his third wife. He has been married four times.)
 Ms. Flor and Mr. Oppenheimer, who both grew up in the Washington area, knew they were taking on a difficult, cagey subject when they began work on the film. Mr. Barry initially had little interest in the project.
 ''For six months I wrote him letters, e-mails and approached the people around him,'' said Ms. Flor, whose other documentaries include ''Latinos in Beisbol'' and ''Cesar Chavez.'' ''He wasn't friendly, he wasn't receptive, but eventually, I wore him down.'' (Mr. Barry said, ''I figured it would be the one time when the whole story could be told.'') 
 Mr. Oppenheimer, whose credits include co-producing ''Devil's Playground'' (about Amish teenagers), said there were protests and counter-protests at the film's premiere in June at the Silverdocs festival in Washington, with people shouting and arguing about whether Mr. Barry was worthy of a film.
 ''We both watched and said to each other, 'This is what our film is about,' '' he said. ''The passions that this man's career has generated continue to this day.''
 Mr. Barry's credentials as an early and effective warrior in the civil rights movement receive significant attention in the 78-minute documentary. A leader of the Free D.C. Movement, Mr. Barry founded a jobs program called Pride Inc. for unemployed black men. He was elected to the school board in 1972 and when the city achieved home rule in 1974 was elected as an at-large council member. He was shot when Hanafi Muslims took over the District Building in 1977 but survived, cementing a reputation for both fearlessness and durability. 
 With the sought-after endorsement of The Washington Post in 1978, he became the city's second mayor and was re-elected twice. During the third term rumors began to circulate that he was using cocaine even as the city he ran was tipping over under the weight of a crack epidemic. On Jan. 18, 1990, Mr. Barry went to the Vista Hotel to visit a former girlfriend, Rasheeda Moore, who was working as a government informant. He was caught on tape by the F.B.I. and city police using crack cocaine.
 Most political careers would have ended there, but Mr. Barry is not any politician, and Washington's voters and juries have a complicated relationship with authority. The jury deadlocked on the multiple felony counts stemming from the Vista arrest; Mr. Barry was convicted on a single count of possession for an earlier incident. After serving a six-month sentence he ran for City Council using the slogan ''He may not be perfect, but he's perfect for D.C.'' In 1994 he ran for a fourth term as mayor and won.
 His successful campaign to return to the City Council in 2004 on behalf of Ward 8 -- one of the city's chronically impoverished areas -- serves as a centerpiece of the documentary. Mr. Barry's public life continued to suffer from steady brushes with the law, including failed drug tests, a conviction for failure to pay taxes, probation violation, traffic offenses and, last month, a charge that he was stalking an ex-girlfriend. (That charge has since been dropped.)
 ''Those are all just distractions, efforts by the government and the media to distract me, to discombobulate me and separate me from the community,'' he said. ''I was re-elected with more than 90 percent of the vote in 2008, so that stuff isn't going to keep me down. They know who I am.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marion Barry is the subject of a documentary on HBO. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Marion Barry in front of the White House during a parade in an undated photo. He now serves on the Washington City Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE WASHINGTON POST) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); COCAINE (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); DIABETES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Nine Lives of Marion Barry, The (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



265 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Arts Programs in Academia Are Forced to Nip Here, Adjust There

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
If you are looking for a sign of how strapped the University of California, Los Angeles, is for cash, consider that its arts and architecture school may resort to holding a bake sale to raise money. California's severe financial crisis has left its higher-education system -- which serves nearly a fifth of the nation's college students -- in particularly bad straits. But tens of thousands of students at public and private colleges and universities around the country will find arts programs, courses and teachers missing -- victims of piercing budget cuts -- when they descend on campuses this month and next. 
 At Washington State University the department of theater arts and dance has been eliminated. At Florida State University the undergraduate program in art education and two graduate theater programs are being phased out. The University of Arizona is cutting three-quarters of its funds, more than $500,000, for visiting classical music, dance and theater performers. Wesleyan University's Center for the Arts, which supports four departments -- dance, music, theater and visual arts -- is losing 14 percent of its $1.2 million budget over the next two years. The Louisiana State University Museum of Art, one of the largest university-affiliated collections in the South, saw 20 percent of its state financing disappear. Other private and state institutions warn of larger classes, trimmed offerings, higher tuition and fewer services, faculty and visitors.
 The arts are of course not the only victims of the recent economic meltdown. Large reductions in budgets have stung pretty much every corner of academia, from philosophy to Chinese, from gymnastics to geology.
 The University of California, for example, is raising student fees by 9 percent, reducing freshman enrollment by 6 percent and cutting at least $300 million across its 10 campuses. There are no nationwide statistics to reveal whether one discipline is suffering more cuts than others. But administrators at more than a dozen state and private campuses who were interviewed say that the way that arts programs are structured and operated may amplify the effect of reductions.
 Since tenured faculty are generally insulated from layoffs, budget cuts fall on part-time and visiting staff, Christopher Waterman, dean of the School of the Arts and Architecture at U.C.L.A., explained. For teachers, ''we want artists who are in the thick of their careers,'' he said. The result is that a large proportion of the school's instructors are not permanent members of the faculty. Every department across the board has been ordered to cut 5 percent -- on top of a 10 percent cut last year -- but that relatively small reduction could mean the elimination of a third of the art department's staff, Mr. Waterman said. (Final decisions on specific cuts have not been made.)
 Crowded classes may not be as harmful in lecture courses, but in creative and performing studios, increasing class size is not always an option, he added. ''You can't teach painting to 40 students or give that many students voice lessons in opera or jazz.'' 
 Several other college arts administrators around the country also said programs that serve the surrounding community as well as the students -- like museums and performing arts centers -- are especially vulnerable. 
 In California figuring out which programs and positions will survive will take a few more weeks. In the meantime the School of the Arts and Architecture, like other sections of U.C.L.A., has been told it should search for more ways to raise money itself. ''We're looking at more summer classes for high school seniors and bake sales,'' Mr. Waterman said.
 Elsewhere on the campus the Film & Television Archive is paring back its foreign-film program ''because we cannot afford shipping any more of those prints from foreign countries,'' said Jan-Christopher Horak, the archives director. A smaller staff in the film studies center could translate into less academic research, he added. As public universities watch state legislators slice away their funds, private colleges have seen their endowments shrink. Both are having to rely more on private donations at the same time that the recession has left individual contributors less able to give.
 Figuring out what or who faces the budgetary guillotine has been a harrowing process no matter how it was done. Few go quietly. 
 Officials at Washington State University held a dozen public forums, testified before state lawmakers, appeared before the student council, the Faculty Senate and the Board of Regents; they responded to thousands of electronic messages and spoke with every single student, legislator, faculty and staff member, alumnus and community member who requested a meeting before deciding where $54 million and 360 jobs over the next two years would come from. One result: Sports management got a reprieve; that program and major will continue, while theater arts and dance will be phased out.
 Arizona State University's four campuses lost 500 jobs, closed 48 programs and imposed 10-to-15-day furloughs this spring. The schools of music, theater, film and design were all incorporated into the existing art and architecture center. Virgil Renzulli, the university's media spokesman, said that officials focused on slashing administrative costs to maintain the same number of courses and tenured faculty. 
 In Flagstaff, Northern Arizona University spread the $21.3 million in cuts across departments. ''The only program that we eliminated was a B.A. in theater education,'' said Tom Bauer, assistant director of public affairs. ''It only had 15 students, and they will be allowed to finish.'' He added that the university is still waiting to hear from the governor's office how much federal stimulus money might be directed its way. 
 Like California, Louisiana has had a tough year, although the doomsday cuts that some administrators were forecasting have not come to pass. Laurence Kaptain, dean of the College of Music and Dramatic Arts at Louisiana State University, said, ''We tried to save people and cut things in our operations.'' The college, which took a 3 percent cut this year on top of a 10 percent reduction last year, is holding back on upgrading computers and production technology, spending less on costumes, scenery and special effects as well as travel and conferences. ''It's making us more dependent on private funds,'' he said.
 Over at Louisiana State's College of Art & Design the dean, David Cronrath, said a 4 percent cut ate up the positions of three full-time tenure-track faculty members, eight adjunct faculty and two staff members. He hopes to offer the same number of courses by increasing the faculty members' loads and by relying more on graduate-student teaching assistants and part-time faculty, he said. But he, like others around the country, expects more cuts despite federal stimulus money.
 For some institutions many tough decisions are yet to come. Cornell University, for example, recently approved long-term capital projects, including a $20 million extension to its art museum and a $55 million building for the College of Architecture, Art and Planning, said Simeon Moss, a university spokesman. But the university is also undertaking a top-to-bottom evaluation in the face of a projected operating deficit of approximately $150 million within five years. 
 Although some arts advocates, faculty and students have complained that their subjects are saddled with a disproportionate share of the cuts, Sally E. McRorie, the dean of visual arts, theater and dance at Florida State University, said that did not happen in her case.
 ''Florida State has a long history of dedication and investment in the arts,'' she said. ''Our cuts have not been greater than anybody else's.'' She said the university made a decision to use federal stimulus money ''to keep people employed'' but noted that after next year, when ''those funds are gone, I'm not sure if we'll be able to maintain those positions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher Waterman, the dean of the School of the Arts and Architecture at U.C.L.A., on campus in a painting studio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); DANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); THEATER (74%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MUSIC (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (67%); MUSIC GENRES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (56%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



266 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: China's Online Shopping Mecca

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: YIWU, China 

 BODY:
In the months leading up to his college graduation in June, Yang Fugang spent most of his days away from campus, managing an online store that sells cosmetics, shampoo and other goods he often buys from local factories.
 Today, his store on Taobao.com -- China's fast-growing online shopping bazaar -- has 14 employees, two warehouses and piles of cash.
 ''I never thought I could do this well,'' said Mr. Yang, 23, who earned $75,000 last year. ''I started out selling yoga mats and now I'm selling a lot of makeup and cosmetics. The profit margins are higher.''
 Taobao fever has swept Mr. Yang's school, Yiwu Industrial and Commercial College, where administrators say a quarter of its 8,800 students now operate a Taobao shop, often from a dorm room. 
 Across China, millions of others -- recent college graduates, shopkeepers and retirees -- are also using Taobao to sell clothes, mobile phones, toys and just about anything else they can find at neighborhood stores and wholesale markets or even smuggle out of factories.
 Internet analysts say this booming marketplace -- reminiscent of the early days of eBay, when Americans started emptying their attics for online auctions -- has turned Taobao into China's newest Internet darling. 
 Though just six years old, Taobao (Chinese for ''to search for treasure'') already has 120 million registered users and 300 million product listings. Its merchants produced nearly $15 billion in sales last year. 
 The company claims that sales through its Web site are already larger than any Chinese retailer. And, Internet analysts say, sales on its site this year will surpass Amazon.com's expected sales of about $19 billion.
 ''This is the next big segment for China's Internet,'' said Jason Brueschke, an Internet analyst at Citigroup in Hong Kong. ''It's their Amazon and eBay combined.''
 Like eBay, Taobao does not sell anything itself; it simply matches buyers and sellers. It has a firm foothold in China because many parts of the country still have poor transportation and some local authorities favor their own government-owned outlets, making the retailing system inefficient.
 The global recession also left once-booming factories overflowing with goods the rest of the world does not seem to want. 
 The so-called Taobao addicts are helping to pick up the slack in a sluggish economy. ''I can't live without Taobao,'' said Zhang Kangni, a graduate student in Shanghai. ''First, it's cheaper. I found a dress at a store in Shanghai. It's a Hong Kong brand that sells for $175. I found it on Taobao for $33.''
 But skeptics ask: Can Taobao actually make a profit and emerge as a true Web powerhouse? 
 The company is not publicly traded and therefore does not disclose financial information, but listings are free on Taobao and the company makes no money from online transactions. Almost all Taobao's $200 million in revenue comes from advertising, which the company says covers virtually all its operational costs. 
 The company has been criticized, however, for contributing to a flourishing trade in counterfeit goods. Taobao brushes aside such criticism, saying it has a new program that is effectively cracking down on counterfeits. 
 Company executives also say Taobao is poised to earn huge profits, but that their first priority is creating an online community. 
 ''Our vision for Taobao is to build a consumer's paradise, where people can shop online and have fun,'' Jonathan Lu, Taobao's president, said. ''If you make the company better and better, profits will naturally follow.''
 His confidence in Taobao's future comes from the company's lineage. It is a division of the Alibaba Group, which was founded by Jack Ma. In the past decade, Mr. Ma has created an Internet conglomerate with strong financial backing from Yahoo, Goldman Sachs and the Softbank Group of Japan. Yahoo owns about 40 percent of Alibaba.
 Alibaba.com -- the conglomerate's flagship Web site -- connects small businesses from around the world with Chinese exporters. Taobao.com does something similar for consumers who want to sell to other consumers.
 When Taobao was founded in 2003, it appeared to have no chance. EBay and its Chinese partner, EachNet, controlled 90 percent of China's online shopping. But Mr. Ma, a former English teacher, quickly undermined eBay's fee-based service by offering free listings on Taobao, essentially giving away ads to anyone who wanted to sell. 
 At the time, eBay executives ridiculed the strategy, with many repeating that ''free is not a business model.''
 But almost immediately, the site took off, and in 2006, eBay pulled out of China, citing dwindling market share and large losses. Today, it is Taobao that commands 80 percent of China's e-commerce market, according to iResearch.
 ''Taobao is dominant,'' said Richard Ji, an Internet analyst at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. ''They're like an online Wal-Mart.'' Mr. Ji says Taobao is a threat not only to traditional retailers but also to big Chinese Internet companies, like Baidu, a leading search engine, because they are competing with Taobao for many of the same advertisers. 
 Taobao has thrived, Internet analysts say, because people do not need much capital to start online stores. This year, Taobao says its site could help create half a million new jobs, mostly among young people opening new online stores.
 Bao Yifen, a 23-year-old recent college graduate, opened her clothing shop with a $5,000 investment in 2007. Today, her Taobao store has sales of about $4,000 a month.
 ''Three times a week I go to the wholesale market,'' Ms. Bao said. ''It's a huge market. About 70 to 80 percent of the stuff is factory leftovers. There are even some brands, but they just cut the labels off.''
 Items smuggled into China from Hong Kong, Europe or the United States are also sold on Taobao, evading high import duties and enabling sellers to profit by undercutting the prices of merchandise in regular stores. An Apple MacBook Air that sells for $2,225 in Beijing, for instance, costs just $1,508 in Hong Kong, a difference of 33 percent.
 Counterfeit goods are also readily available, even though Taobao claims to have removed two million ''fake branded goods'' from the site. 
 Nevertheless, many Taobao sellers acknowledge dealing in illegal goods. 
 ''I work in an O.E.M. factory that produces laptops and electronic devices for Sony,'' said one such seller, who identified himself Mr. Feng, referring to an original equipment manufacturer that produces goods for global companies. ''We have Sony's core technology and exactly the same raw materials and components, so we set up our own store selling netbooks and laptops on Taobao.''
 A spokesman for Sony, Takashi Uehara, said the company had no comment but was looking into the matter.
 Here in Yiwu, which claims to be the site of the world's biggest wholesale market, Taobao has started to change the look of Yiwu Industrial and Commercial College.
 The school's vice dean, Jia Shaohua, points out an area designated as a start-up site for students seeking to get rich. He points to students taking orders by computer, packaging products, sorting inventory and taking photos of the items for display online, then adds, ''Around the school now, there is a whole Taobao industrial chain.'' 
 Every afternoon, even this summer, when the school should be relatively empty, one can hear the ripping sounds of tape being wrapped around boxes in a building that could pass for a United Parcel Service shipping terminal.
 ''The students don't need a lot of money,'' Mr. Jia said. ''They just get orders and go find the items at local factories.''
 Mr. Yang, the cosmetics seller, has become a campus hero. He operates his own warehouses a few miles from the school, in the basements of a pair of residential buildings.
 Standing in his crowded warehouse, near boxes of Neutrogena sun block, hairpins, toothbrushes and a wide assortment of cosmetics, Mr. Yang says business could not be better.
 ''Soon, I'll reach $150,000 a month in sales,'' he said, flashing a big grin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yang Fugang, just out of college, has found success selling cosmetic products from local factories through the site Taobao.(B1)
Students run their Taobao stores from rented space at their school, Yuwi Commercial College.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) CHART: Growing Up Fast: Taobao has rapidly become the dominant online store in China.(Sources: Taobao
 iResearch China Online Shopping Report 2008-2009) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); COSMETICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (87%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); SMUGGLING (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (86%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); ALLANFIELD GROUP PLC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (86%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); ALF (LSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (86%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



267 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 719 words

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
The Best Choice
 For Citigroup
 Selling a controlling stake in Phibro won't cut it for Citigroup. 
 Sure, it would probably quell some of the uproar around the flashpoint that put Citi's full ownership of Phibro, a commodities trading unit, under public scrutiny: the $100 million bonus due to Phibro's boss, Andrew Hall, this year. But the debate has since moved on to whether such a venture belongs in Citi's portfolio of businesses at all. That's hard for the bank to justify.
 Phibro has performed well for Citi, bringing as much as $4.5 billion of revenue in the last 10 years and almost $700 million in each of the last two. In 2007, the unit accounted for around 10 percent of Citi's $3.6 billion of profit -- a significant piece even though the bank's earnings that year were depleted by losses on collateralized debt obligations. And taking risks is what financial firms, especially those with large investment banking and trading operations, are intended to do. 
 But Phibro isn't just another trading or hedge fund business like those Citi and its rivals either did or do still run. It's largely autonomous and appears to rely heavily on one individual -- Mr. Hall. 
 For all of Phibro's past success, that kind of structure is cause for concern at any institution, let alone one that is being propped up by American taxpayers and scrutinized by an administration alert to bank risk-taking, outsize pay packets and the role of financial players in commodity markets.
 If Citi's executives could demonstrate that they have full control over the risks Phibro takes and that it pays adequately when it uses the bank's capital to make bets, there might be at least some justification for keeping it. If not, selling a big stake would change little other than lowering the bank's earnings. Citi would still have capital at risk and the distraction that would bring. It would be much better to get rid of the unit entirely. That, at least, should bring in a decent amount of cash. 
 False Hope on Jobs
 Optimism over the small decline in the unemployment rate is premature. The stock market enjoyed a minirally on Friday after the government reported that the jobless rate had fallen to 9.4 percent from 9.5 percent. 
 But this was caused by a decline in the labor force, which is not a sign of economic revival. The economy could continue to be faced with substantial unemployment for some time.
 The 247,000 job losses in July were broadly spread. Only the health care sector showed gains. Construction jobs declined by 76,000, less than in the early months of the year, as home building began to stabilize. Manufacturing lost only 52,000 jobs, far less than in previous months, but that reflected unusual seasonal factors.
 So many automobile workers have already been laid off that declines in car industry employment were actually smaller than usual, producing an artificial 28,000 ''gain'' in that sector when seasonally adjusted.
 Although the number of people employed declined, the unemployment rate also fell because the labor force shrank by 422,000 people. This reflected an increase in the number of people who have not looked for work in the last 12 months, which is up 709,000 in the last year to 2.3 million. The labor force participation rate (those who are either employed or unemployed but seeking work) has fallen 1.3 percent in the last year.
 Going forward, employment could be slow to recover. In the coming quarter, automobile production and employment may benefit from the ''cash for clunkers'' program, but that will mostly pull production forward from future quarters.
 Two factors will hold the economy back. Monetary policy has been extremely stimulative, with excess reserves in the banking system now totaling $700 billion. The Federal Reserve will have to tighten its policies if price pressures increase.
 The large and growing federal budget deficit, meanwhile, is beginning to rattle the bond markets. The slight increase in interest rates in the last few months could accelerate as the government sells ever-greater amounts of debt.
 The decline in employment has slowed, but the economy may not enjoy substantial net job creation for some time.
 ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Robinson looks for a job at an agency in Lansing, Mich. The state is one of those hardest hit by unemployment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (84%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEALTH CARE (68%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (67%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



268 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: A Real Bill for the Climate

 BODY:
Every two years, like clockwork, Congress seems to pass an energy bill, each one marginally better than the one before. What this country does not need in 2009 is another energy bill, even a better one. What it needs is a climate bill, one committed to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases in a way that engages the whole economy and forces major technological change. 
 Without such a bill, America will lose the race against time on climate, lose the race for markets for new and cleaner energy systems, and forfeit any claim to world leadership in advance of the next round of global climate negotiations in Copenhagen in December.
 The bill approved by the House last month is a start. It calls for greater efficiency and alternative energy sources. But at its heart is a provision that would cut greenhouse gases by 17 percent by 2020 and 83 percent by midcentury. It would do so by imposing a steadily declining ceiling on emissions -- raising the cost of dirtier fuels while steering investments to cleaner ones.
 Yet there are small but disturbing signs that what this country might have to settle for is another energy bill. The atmosphere in the Senate is just short of mutinous. The mandatory cap on emissions has virtually no Republican support. There is talk of a turf war between two key Democrats, Barbara Boxer and Max Baucus, whose committees share jurisdiction over the bill. On Thursday, 10 Democrats from states that produce coal or depend on energy-intensive industries said they could not support any bill that did not protect American industries from exports from countries that did not impose similar restraints on emissions. 
 The White House seems oddly disengaged. It has been a while since President Obama has issued a full-throated plea for a climate bill, and when his aides talk about the issue, they talk about things that are easy to sell -- ''energy security'' and ''green jobs'' -- rather than pushing for tough measures needed to cap emissions. 
 They must start doing so, if not tomorrow, the moment the Senate returns after Labor Day. The planet cannot wait much longer for serious action. The last few months have brought a mountain of new data, including an M.I.T. study suggesting that the planet could be warming much faster than previously thought. The only possible response is a strong, demanding climate bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); US LABOR DAY (71%); APPROVALS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



269 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: 'In Wine We Trust,' Ads Suggest

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A song from the musical ''Gypsy'' celebrates a lengthy list of words ending in ''-stone,'' which includes curbstones, touchstones, grindstones, gallstones, millstones, moonstones ''and such stones as them.''
 About the only ''-stone'' missing from ''Have an Egg Roll, Mr. Goldstone'' is the name of a wine brand featured in a new print campaign, Blackstone, which carries the theme ''Here's to the things in life you can count on.'' 
 The idea behind the campaign, created by Amazon Advertising in San Francisco, is that just as you can trust, say, Stephen Sondheim, who wrote the lyrics for ''Gypsy,'' to produce memorable music, consumers can trust Blackstone to provide fine wine at reasonable prices (most of its offerings cost $8 to $10 a bottle).
 To underscore the promise, the campaign, appearing in national magazines, includes a money-back guarantee from the Blackstone Winery, part of the Constellation Wines United States division of Constellation Brands. 
 ''We're so sure you'll enjoy the taste of Blackstone wines that if you don't, we'll pay you back,'' the ads declare. ''Count on it.'' There is even a section of the Blackstone Web site devoted to the refund offer.
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at $1 million, is the first for Blackstone from Amazon Advertising, which also creates campaigns for other Constellation wines like Mondavi, Ravenswood and Woodbridge.
 The campaign is among many appearing since the start of the Great Recession that seek to hold the hands of wary shoppers who are spending less than during the boom times. The goal is offer reassurance they will not be wasting money because the product being advertised is dependable and/or a value.
 The campaign was developed last fall, says Natasha Hayes, group marketing director at Constellation Wines United States in San Francisco, before the worst of the economic downturn hit.
 ''All of a sudden, everything changed,'' Ms. Hayes recalls, and there was much less of a need among consumers for ''status badges.'' In a time ''of financial uncertainty,'' she adds, consumers began searching for ''brands they can trust'' and ''brands that will be there for you.''
 In the wine market, Ms. Hayes says, that meant they were ''not eager to spend 10 or 12 bucks on a wine they had not heard of.''
 That represents a shift from typical behavior among wine buyers, Ms. Hayes says, who ''talk about discovery'' and how much fun it is to try different brands.
 ''That's why there's a proliferation of wine brands,'' she adds, but with ''everyone's watching their pennies a little bit more what we're finding right now is more of a backwards step: 'I don't want to discover; I want to stick with brands that are trusted and true.' ''
 Presenting Blackstone in that fashion would not work, Ms. Hayes says, unless consumers believe such a positioning is ''true to the brand essence.''
 Research found that wine drinkers describe the ''foundation'' of the Blackstone brand using words and phrases like ''unpretentious quality, strength, unassuming hero, engaging,'' she adds, and a ''staple that's going to deliver.''
 The money-back guarantee is intended to bolster the argument made for Blackstone by the campaign, Ms. Hayes says.
 ''Just in case you need something else'' to buy the brand, she explains, the refund offer ''is your safety net and eliminates any reason you would not pick this wine up.''
 Or in other words, ''we're willing to put our money where our mouth is,'' Ms. Hayes says.
 In one print ad, a woman is seated on a comfy-looking sofa, talking on an old-school landline phone. Various items in the photograph are identified and called out with red asterisks: the best friend to whom she is speaking; ''grandpa's watch,'' on her wrist; and the ''old jeans'' she is wearing.
 The asterisks lead to text at the bottom of the ad, next to a bottle of Blackstone merlot. ''*Here's to the things in life you can count on,'' the text reads. ''Blackstone Winery.''
 ''All the awards, without the pretensions,'' the text concludes. ''That's why we're America's favorite merlot.''
 In a second ad, a man is seated on a sofa, wearing headphones. The items highlighted and carrying asterisks in the photo are the woman he is seated next to, his dog and Miles Davis, whose music he is listening to. The text at the bottom of the ad is the same as in the other ad.
 ''We don't even show anyone drinking the wine,'' says Tonya Merke, associate creative director at Amazon Advertising.
 Omitting the stock shots of wine drinking introduces an element of unexpectedness to the ads, Ms. Merke says, and helps them stand out amid a sea of look-alike wine campaigns.
 The challenge presented by the overall approach the ads take, says Lynda Pearson, executive creative director at Amazon, is to ''keep dependability from being boring.''
 The answer is to ''align it with things that are true and good,'' Ms. Pearson says, from mainstay wardrobe items to the music of Miles Davis.
 Including Mr. Davis in the ads required the approval of his family, she adds, which was not difficult to obtain.
 ''The son-in-law, I think, is a big Blackstone fan,'' Ms. Pearson says. ''We sent several cases.''
 Additionally, the ad giving Mr. Davis the shout-out mentions in small type at the bottom that 2009 marks the 50th anniversary of his ''legendary album, 'Kind of Blue.' ''
 As for other star turns in the campaign, ''we don't have big plans for always dropping in celebrities,'' Ms. Pearson says. ''We'll take it as it comes.''
 Millie Olson, chief executive at Amazon, jokingly proposes another star to include in an ad: ''Blackstone is like the Tom Hanks of wine.''
 (Preferably the Tom Hanks of ''Big,'' ''That Thing You Do'' or ''Catch Me if You Can'' rather than the Tom Hanks of ''The Money Pit'' or ''Bonfire of the Vanities.'')
 When the research ''found that dependability is very motivating'' for wine drinkers, ''we wondered, 'How sexy can that be?''' Ms. Olson says. ''But it's important.''
 The ads are appearing in more than a dozen magazines read by wine drinkers and oenophiles. Previously, Ms. Hayes says, Blackstone was advertised in far fewer magazines.
 The campaign is running in Coastal Living, Cooking Light, Departures, Fine Cooking, Food & Wine, ForbesLife, More, National Geographic, National Geographic Traveler, Saveur, Sunset, The Atlantic and Wine Spectator.
 Next up is a redesign for the Blackstone Web site, Ms. Hayes says, probably toward the end of the year.
 -------
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WINE (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); SONG WRITING (73%); BUDGETS (72%); WINERIES (71%); BEVERAGE PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%)

COMPANY: CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (55%)

TICKER: STZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (55%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



270 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Magazines Turn to Cover Ads, and Even Pouches, for Revenue

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
BEFORE the recession, magazines had little in common with marsupials. Now, though, magazine covers are starting to sport pouches.
 For instance, the cover of the September issue of a Hearst magazine, House Beautiful, will include a pouch containing a chart that readers can pull out and save. The chart, offering tips on choosing colors for home decorating, carries an advertisement on the back for Glidden paints, part of a new campaign with the theme ''Glidden gets you going.''
 What gets magazines -- and other traditional media -- going these days is the need for new sources of revenue. Although back covers of magazines have carried ads for decades, the front covers had long been sacrosanct as pitch-free zones. 
 But just as newspapers (including this one) have begun to sell ads on the front pages of sections, magazines are selling space on or inside front covers.
 For example, Entertainment Weekly magazine, part of the Time Inc. division of Time Warner, included a pocket on the cover of its April 3 issue that contained a pull-out ad for a new series on ABC, ''The Unusuals.''
 Esquire magazine, also published by Hearst, printed special covers for its February and May issues with special ads that appeared on the back side of editorial content.
 The proliferation of ads associated with front covers concerns an organization representing the editorial side of the magazine business because of the potential for blurring the line between paid and unpaid content.
 ''There's no problem with advertising appearing next to editorial,'' said Sid Holt, chief executive at the American Society of Magazine Editors in New York. ''Our concern is the use of a cover for advertising purposes alone.''
 The organization gave a thumbs down to the Entertainment Weekly cover because, Mr. Holt said, ''the cover had been altered to support advertising.''
 As for the September issue of House Beautiful, which is to arrive this week, Mr. Holt said that based on a description of the placement of the Glidden ad the pouch seemed ''editorially driven'' and therefore acceptable under the guidelines of his organization.
 Kate Kelly Smith, vice president and publisher of House Beautiful, part of the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation in New York, said the pouch -- which appears on the cover of the annual fall color issue -- was designed to meet the society's guidelines.
 ''We were very careful,'' Ms. Kelly Smith said, that it be ''an editorial cover'' because ''everything at House Beautiful begins with an editorial lens.''
 Stephen Drucker, editor in chief at House Beautiful, agreed with her, saying that ''none of the real estate on the cover is anything but editorial.''
 ''The advertiser had no knowledge about what the content'' of the pouch would be, he added, other than it would be part of ''a color issue.''
 Mr. Drucker described himself as ''particularly enthusiastic'' about the idea, a first for House Beautiful, because ''we editors have to make magazines exciting again, and this is a great demonstration of how to do that.''
 The shelter and home category of the magazine industry, in which House Beautiful competes, is one of the most troubled in a troubled business. In fact, Time Inc. last week closed one of its entries in the category, Southern Accents, joining other discontinued titles like Blueprint, Country Home, Domino, Home and O at Home.
 The September issue of House Beautiful is to carry an estimated 69 ad pages, down 18 percent from 84 in the September 2008 issue. By comparison, the ad pages in the September issues of other Hearst magazines like Cosmopolitan, Harper's Bazaar and Marie Claire will decline by 18.5 percent to 26 percent compared with their September issues last year. 
 The ad on the back of the pull-out chart is part of a package that Glidden bought in House Beautiful. The deal, estimated in the mid six figures, includes a two-page ad in the issue, following the front cover; ads in the August, October and November issues; a sponsorship of a promotion last month, Kitchen of the Year, in Rockefeller Plaza; a presence on housebeautiful.com; and exposure for Glidden through House Beautiful's pages on Facebook and Twitter.
 ''For a brand in a period of reinvention,'' the cover pouch ''is the perfect way to set up that we'll do things that are innovative and unexpected,'' said Rob Horton, vice president for marketing in Cleveland at the Akzo Nobel Decorative Paints United States division of Akzo Nobel.
 That the pull-out chart would observe ''the separation of church and state'' between editorial content and advertising was ''fundamentally important'' to Glidden, Mr. Horton said, because ''if editorial isn't separate from advertising it loses its impact.''
 The ''Glidden gets you going'' campaign is being handled by agencies that are part of the Omnicom Group, including DDB Worldwide, for creative duties; PHD, for media duties; and Interbrand, for packaging.
 The recession can be an opportunity for paint marketers because consumers who are spending more time at home -- and may not be able to move -- can consider repainting rooms as more affordable than ''other decorative solutions,'' Mr. Horton said, like remodeling or new furniture.
 Other paint brands joining Glidden in bringing out new campaigns include Sherwin-Williams, with ads from McKinney in Durham, N.C.
 At House Beautiful, Ms. Kelly Smith said, ad pages from paint makers for the first nine issues of 2009 rose more than 50 percent from the same period last year. Newcomers this year are Behr, Glidden and Pratt & Lambert, she added, joining returning brands that include Benjamin Moore, Sherwin-Williams and Valspar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The cover of House Beautiful holds a chart with paint advice, the back of which is an ad.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP FRIEDMAN/ STUDIO D) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (96%); TIME INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



271 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Paula Abdul To ABC?

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER; Compiled by RACHEL LEE HARRIS

 BODY:
ABC is actively recruiting the suddenly unemployed Paula Abdul.The president of ABC Entertainment, Stephen McPherson, told reporters in Los Angeles on Saturday that he had contacted Ms. Abdul immediately after he heard that contract talks with her hit Fox show, ''American Idol,'' had broken down and that she had decided to leave the show. ''I definitely have reached out to her,'' Mr. McPherson said, ''first and foremost to say I was sorry about the situation and also that we'd love to see her on ABC.'' He said that he had a relationship with Ms. Abdul that went back many years, to his early days in developing shows, and that he had an idea about where Ms. Abdul might fit in on ABC: its own music-oriented reality show hit, ''Dancing With the Stars.'' Mr. McPherson said, ''We'd love to have her on 'Dancing,' whether as a contestant or participant of some sort, judge,'' adding: ''There's a lot made about who she is. I think there is a sensitivity and emotion there that balances out 'Idol.' We'd love to get a piece of that.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



272 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Wendy's International, Dublin, Ohio, part of the Wendy's/Arby's Group, named the Kaplan Thaler Group, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, as its creative agency. Spending was estimated at $300 million. The assignment had most recently been handled by Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners; Wendy's had also previously used another Publicis agency, Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, for creative work. 
 Taco Bell, Irvine, Calif., part of Yum Brands, chose the San Francisco and New York offices of R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for a new assignment, to be the fast-food chain's lead digital agency. An R/GA sibling, Draft FCB, is the lead creative agency for Taco Bell.
 WWRD Holdings, Wall, N.J., selected Gotham, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for a new consolidated assignment, to handle worldwide creative for three brands the company now owns, Waterford, Wedgwood and Royal Doulton. Spending may reach as much as $5 million to $10 million in the next year as WWRD, owned by KPS Capital Partners, begins marketing the three brands of china, giftware and tabletop accessories. Waterford had been handled by Cossette New York, part of the Cossette Communication Group. The media duties on the account will be handled by a Gotham sibling, ID Media, and public relations by another Interpublic agency, Current.
 People
 Three employees at Ypartnership, Orlando, Fla., became equity partners in the agency and took new titles. They are: Chris Davidson, chief client officer; Hugh McConnell, chief operating officer; and Scott Myers, chief information officer.
 Miscellany
 M Booth Associates, New York, a public relations agency, was acquired by the Next Fifteen Communications Group, London, which owns public relations agencies like Bite Outcast and Text 100. Financial terms were not disclosed. Next Fifteen plans to pair M Booth, which has 65 employees, with another of its agencies, Lexis Public Relations, and create a worldwide brand specializing in consumer public relations. Margi Booth continues as chief executive at M Booth.
 Oxford Communications, Lambertville, N.J., is starting a brand culture division, to be led by Gretchen Ramsey, who has worked for advertising and public relations agencies on brands like InStyle magazine. 
 The Public Relations Society of America, New York, has nominated a chairwoman and chief executive to lead the organization in 2011. She is Rosanna Fiske, a graduate coordinator and associate professor of public relations and advertising at the School of Journalism and Mass Communications at Florida International University.
 Macy's, New York, part of Macy's Inc., will join with the organization Feeding America for a campaign, called ''Come Together,'' intended to help feed 10 million people. Ads will invite consumers to hold dinners at home and ask guests to make a donation to Feeding America rather than bring gifts to their hosts. The campaign includes a commercial patterned after spots for Macy's featuring a range of celebrities but rather than promoting merchandise, the stars in the commercial will promote the ''Come Together'' campaign. The celebrities include Tommy Hilfiger, Martha Stewart, Donald Trump and Usher. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); JOURNALISM (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (94%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (94%); MACY'S INC (84%); COSSETTE INC (69%); YPARTNERSHIP (66%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (58%); WENDY'S CO (58%); YUM! BRANDS INC (57%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); TACO BELL CORP (57%); WWRD HOLDINGS LTD (56%); KPS CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (55%); ABWICKLUNGSGESELLSCHAFT INNOVATIV-DIGITALE MEDIEN AG (54%); NEXT FIFTEEN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (53%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (94%); PUB (PAR) (94%); M (NYSE) (84%); WEN (NASDAQ) (58%); YUM (NYSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); NFC (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (69%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (66%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3262 VITREOUS CHINA TABLE & KITCHEN ARTICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (54%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



273 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: $75 Billion Carrot, but Few Nibbles

 BODY:
In March, the Obama administration began an antiforeclosure effort that offers lenders up to $75 billion in incentives to modify troubled mortgages. If that sounds like a lot of money, it is. But so far, it has not been enough to persuade the mortgage industry to do what is needed to help Americans stay in their homes and keep the economy from falling into deeper trouble.
 The first report on the program, released last week by the Treasury Department, shows that as of the end of July, 235,247 mortgages had been modified on a trial basis. That is not even 9 percent of the 2.7 million troubled loans currently deemed eligible. (During the trials, borrowers are granted reduced monthly payments. After they pay on time for three consecutive months, the lowered payment will be fixed for at least five years.) 
The report also shows that 117,295 trial-plan offers were pending at the end of July, but it is unclear how many of those will ultimately result in reworked loans. 
 Why aren't the banks snapping up the incentives? 
 Some may prefer foreclosure because it allows them to delay reporting a loss. A delay is especially valuable for banks with other loans that are going bad, say, on commercial real estate. Modifications also require much more time and effort than processing foreclosures. For some mortgage firms that collect payments and handle defaults, the incentives may be outweighed by the fees they collect on delinquencies and foreclosure sales.
 For all that, the administration still maintains that the incentives will overcome the industry's manifest reluctance. It also seems to believe that by exposing lenders' slow progress, it can shame them into doing better. As far as we can tell, the industry knows no shame. 
 Administration officials say that they now expect 500,000 modifications by November. That would be a boost, but likely too little given the size of the problem and the vulnerability of the economy. 
 According to Moody's Economy.com, it would take at least one million successful modifications over the next six to 12 months to avoid the worst effects of mass foreclosures, including severe damage to families and communities and -- as foreclosures drive prices down -- a continuing loss of home equity nationwide.
 Unfortunately, there is also no telling at this point how many of the loans that are modified under the Obama plan will stay current, and how many will redefault. What is known is that with unemployment rising, even lowered monthly payments may prove too onerous. 
 With home prices falling, a better way to avoid redefault would be to forgive principal. In apparent deference to banks that do not want the losses associated with principal reductions, Obama officials have not pressed lenders to adopt that approach. 
 There is a real danger now that lenders, pushed by the administration, may ramp up the number of loan modifications, but that those may be especially prone to redefault. And there is a danger that the administration will squander valuable time pursuing a solution that proves inadequate, allowing the foreclosure crisis to persist. To guard against those dangers, the administration must provide copious data on the performance of modified loans over time. And it should reveal the assumptions it is using to project the program's goals. 
 If the Obama plan does not produce enough successful modifications, Congress must give homeowners an alternative route to relief. The best way to do that is by changing the law to allow bankruptcy judges to modify bad mortgages. The prospect of having to live by a judge's ruling would be the biggest incentive of all for lenders to modify bad loans, and it would not cost the taxpayers anything.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Monday about the slow pace of the Obama administration's anti-foreclosure effort misstated the number of offers pending to modify mortgages. As of the end of July, the number was 171,295, not 117,295. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



274 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: News Site Keeps Focus On Town's Recession

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Like other media organizations this year, MSNBC.com wanted to show the wrath of the recession at the kitchen table level. So it began what is one of the most unusual experiments in online journalism to date: it ensconced itself in one city in Indiana and documented how that city grappled with the economic downturn. 
 For the Elkhart Project, which is entering its fifth month, MSNBC.com assigns one staff member to Elkhart, Ind., at almost all times to ensure a regular output of blog posts, slide shows, videos and Twitter messages. In Elkhart, readers and viewers see the effects of job losses, foreclosures and stimulus money projects -- what MSNBC.com calls ''stories of struggle and recovery in America.'' 
 The project has won over some residents who were initially upset about the media's portrayal of the manufacturing city of 53,000, which has an unemployment rate twice the national average and is sometimes treated as a national symbol of distressed middle America. The project has also been recognized by other journalists for its storytelling; last week it received the National Press Club's online journalism award. 
 The project is not exactly a model of hyperlocal journalism (a term for Web-powered neighborhood news) because it leaves most of the day-to-day reporting to the local newspaper, The Elkhart Truth, which it counts as a partner. 
 Instead, ''we're focused on the themes that are familiar to all Americans and using our reporting in Elkhart to deal with those universal issues,'' said Jennifer Sizemore, the editor in chief of MSNBC.com, which is a joint venture of Microsoft and NBC Universal.
 Vikki Porter, the director of the Knight Digital Media Center at the University of Southern California, called the project an excellent example of how a classic journalism model ''can be mashed up with the 2.0 storytelling tools of the Web.''
 Ms. Sizemore declined to say whether the Elkhart Project was a profitable enterprise, saying ''our best news projects serve the consumers' needs and interests first.''
 According to Web measurement firms, MSNBC.com's Web sites are among the most popular in the country, with about 40 million visitors a month. MSNBC.com would not say how many visitors the project has attracted, but put its audience in the millions.
 The project's genesis was in MSNBC.com's desire to relate the economic recession to lives of ordinary Americans. ''The adage that all news is local is absolutely true,'' Ms. Sizemore said, adding that personal reporting humanizes a story.
 The Web site had focused at length on a town before: in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, MSNBC.com employees tracked the recovery of two Mississippi towns in a series called ''Rising From Ruin.''
 Ms. Sizemore said that the hurricane was a local story with national interest, and the Elkhart Project is in many ways the inverse: ''It is coverage of a national story through the lens of one location, and includes tools and data that are relevant no matter where you live.''
 Elkhart was chosen after President Obama visited the town in February and, as Ms. Sizemore put it, ''staked his administration's credibility on the success or failure of the town's recovery.'' He had already visited twice as a candidate. 
 A deputy editor suggested that staff members visit Elkhart the next day on an exploratory trip, and MSNBC editors eventually decided that it would serve as the soul of the Web site's coverage.
 The project, at ElkhartProject.MSNBC.com, includes several strands of reporting, including the causes of the somber unemployment statistics, the impact of the federal stimulus funds and the views of young people about the economy.
 At the outset in April, the Web site intended to report from Elkhart through the one-year anniversary of Mr. Obama's February visit. Ms. Sizemore now says the site will stay to track whether stimulus funds show up, and whether they have the intended effect.
 ''It may be a story that we never really drop from our radar,'' she said. 
 Seemingly every day, an Elkhart article appears on MSNBC.com's home page, often illustrated by a photo of a local citizen. When Mr. Obama visited Elkhart last week, an NBC correspondent asked him questions submitted by local residents.
 Residents seem to have warmed up to the project. In the spring, Jennifer Holderread worried in blog posts and on forums that the city was ''in danger of becoming nothing more than a media plaything.''
 But her outlook has changed. ''I think the people who were initially sent here to cover the economy had the forethought that they were going to cover nothing but poverty and despair,'' she said in an e-mail message. Now, though, they are covering events like the county fair and new businesses, showing a more nuanced view of the city.
 Dan Gillmor, who runs a center for digital media entrepreneurship at Arizona State University, praised the project's ambition, but suggested that MSNBC.com should encourage genuine collaboration with the people of Elkhart, perhaps by incorporating local blogs and videos more fully. ''The people of the community could contribute a lot more if they weren't being seen as sources for interviews or anecdotes, or, to put it less kindly, as journalistic lab rats,'' he said.
 To buttress its big-picture coverage, MSNBC.com shares reporting with The Elkhart Truth. Ms. Porter said she was most intrigued by the collaboration of the national news organization and the local one.
 Rather than merely parachuting into a local story, she said, ''this is a commitment model, integrating the local news resources with the national perspective over the long haul.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chuck Todd of MSNBC.com with President Obama, center, Wednesday at a plant in Wakarusa, Ind., a town in Elkhart County.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL DEDMAN/MSNBC.COM)
 The city of Elkhart has a jobless rate twice the national average and to some symbolizes distressed middle America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN BRECHER/MSNBC.COM)(B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



275 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Obama Arrives in Mexico for North American Meeting

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and MARC LACEY

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico 

 BODY:
President Barack Obama began a summit meeting here Sunday night with his Mexican and Canadian counterparts that touched on a broad range of issues including climate change, the economic crisis, the swine flu pandemic and the battle against illegal drugs.
 The annual meeting was started four years ago as a way for the neighboring countries to build on ties established by the North American Free Trade Agreement. As much as they bring the countries together, the meetings have also served to highlight deep differences, particularly on trade and immigration. 
 Expectations were low that those differences would be resolved in the whirlwind of meetings on Sunday and Monday.
 ''I think the summit is going to be a step in the continuing dialogue from which agreements will undoubtedly come,'' Gen. James L. Jones, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, said before the meetings began. ''I think we'll see more of these dialogues. And as I said, from that, I think good things will come.''
 Immigration was raised again, but this time tensions were expected to be focused on Mexicans entering Canada, not the United States.
 Too many Mexicans, the Canadian government complained, are fraudulently claiming political asylum in Canada, overwhelming the system. So Canada announced last month that it would begin requiring Mexican citizens to secure visas before entering the country, a decision that elicited outrage in Mexico.
 The Mexicans struck back with an announcement that Canadian diplomats and government officials would now require visas to enter Mexico.
 Although some angry Mexican lawmakers urged President Felipe Calderon to go further and require visas for all Canadian visitors, Mr. Calderon held off, not wanting to damage Mexico's tourism industry, which relies heavily on North American visitors.
 Mexico also raised a trade dispute that began when the United States Congress canceled a program, in violation of Nafta, that allowed Mexican trucks to operate in the United States.
 Mexico responded by imposing billions of dollars in tariffs on American products. The Obama administration said it was seeking to resolve the dispute, but did not have a deal ready in time for the meeting.
 Another irritant is the ''Buy American'' clause in the Obama administration's economic stimulus plan, which both Canada and Mexico oppose. An aide to Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada told reporters last week that he ''wouldn't be surprised'' if the Canadian leader raised the issue of protectionism with Mr. Obama.
 Even on the issue of combating Mexico's drug violence there is political discord. The American aid package for Mexico says that 15 percent of the funds can be disbursed only if the State Department decides that the Mexican government meets certain human rights conditions. Reports that Mexico's army has engaged in torture and other abuses while carrying out the drug war have prompted some in Congress to oppose releasing those funds. 
 Mr. Calderon's government has characterized any abuses as isolated. And in a meeting with reporters before Mr. Obama's trip to Mexico this week, his aides defended the army's record and argued for the aid to be released.
 The Obama administration has indicated that it favors giving the aid. 
 ''I think the Calderon government has, in fact, performed very courageously in the face of these cartels, and I think we have to do everything we can to be a helpful neighbor and partner,'' said General Jones, the national security adviser.
 Another topic on the agenda is the political crisis in Honduras, where the provisional government and the president it sent into exile in a cou p in June, Manuel Zelaya, have been unable to come to terms.
 The country's interim leader, Roberto Micheletti, said Sunday that he would not allow a delegation of the Organization of American States and regional delegates to enter Honduras for crisis talks this week if the O.A.S. secretary general, Jose Miguel Insulza, was among them. Mr. Micheletti accused Mr. Insulza of lacking ''impartiality and professionalism.''
 A senior White House official said that he believed there was still time to work out an arrangement for the delegation's visit, scheduled for Tuesday, and news agencies later reported that Mr. Micheletti's government said that a meeting could be held if Mr. Insulza was only an observer. It was not clear when the meeting might take place. 
 The delegation had planned to visit Honduras to build support for a proposed settlement forged in negotiations mediated by President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica. The plan calls for Mr. Zelaya to return as president, although with significantly limited powers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama greeted Carlos Pascual, the United States ambassador to Mexico, after landing in Guadalajara on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ARMIES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (72%); EPIDEMICS (72%); INFLUENZA (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TORTURE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); FELIPE CALDERON (79%); JAMES L JONES (58%); STEPHEN HARPER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



276 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Tumultuous Environment Makes a Health Care Compromise More Unlikely

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Spontaneous or contrived, the shouting, shoving and other shenanigans at lawmakers' town-hall-style meetings point to one probable outcome: the demise of bipartisan health care negotiations. 
 Those negotiations have proceeded tortuously all summer, with centrists on the Senate Finance Committee maneuvering around obstacles erected by the Democratic left, the Republican right and the White House. President Obama last week urged the committee members to keep going. 
 Yet the rowdy start of the August Congressional recess has galvanized activists on both ends of the ideological spectrum. That makes it tougher for negotiators to stake out a middle ground -- especially in conservative locales that Democratic centrists call home. 
 ''There are groups that are out there trying to disrupt public meetings with specific strategies that they have put on the Internet,'' Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat and one of the Finance Committee negotiators, said in an interview. ''I mean, is that what we've come to in the United States, that we're going to have people basically functioning as thugs?''
 That in turn makes it easier for liberal Democrats to turn away from conversations with Republicans and press ahead on their own. 
 ''If they can't do it by Sept. 15th, I think the overwhelming view on the Democratic side is going to be, then, they're never going to get it done,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, observed in a separate interview. ''And there's always a worry that, you know, delay, delay, delay, you lose any momentum whatsoever.''
 Fig Leaves, Big and Small
 The negotiators have plainly made progress. 
 To answer spending concerns, they would limit the cost of their proposal to around $900 billion over 10 years.
 To circumnavigate Republican complaints about an ''employer mandate'' to offer insurance, they may instead propose that companies finance the government insurance subsidies for which their workers qualify. 
 To bend the ''cost curve'' without breaching Mr. Obama's vow against middle-class tax hikes, they would tax insurance companies offering lavish health care plans instead of the beneficiaries of those plans. 
 To meet Democrats' insistence on a government health insurance option, despite Republican resistance, they would use nonprofit cooperatives to compete with major insurers.
 But the longer they talk without furnishing details, the more lawmakers and White House strategists suspect that the obstacles are too high.
 On the ''public option,'' Mr. Schumer said, ''if you call it a co-op but it meets certain criteria -- it's available on Day 1, it's available to everybody, it has the strength to go up against the big insurance companies and the big suppliers to bring down prices -- fine.
 ''If it's going to be a measly little thing that's just a fig leaf, not fine,'' Mr. Schumer said. The rising din at constituent meetings makes it tougher for Senators Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, all Republicans, to embrace and explain even fig leaves. 
 Hardening attitudes among Republicans have helped fuel Mr. Obama's recent dip in the polls. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, recently called the Republican negotiators less independent decision-makers than agents of their party's caucus -- the same caucus that overwhelmingly opposed Mr. Obama's economic stimulus legislation at the peak of the new president's popularity. 
 A Greater Danger
 The backdrop is political danger for the president's party, with fat budget deficits and high unemployment increasing the risk of traditional midterm election losses. In Mr. Conrad's view, 2010 ''could be a very challenging year.'' 
 Revamping one-sixth of the United States economy without Republican help would compound those anxieties. Yet many Democrats perceive greater risk in failing to deliver as Washington's governing party -- and stand ready to act under special ''reconciliation'' rules that would heighten partisan tensions by blocking Republican filibusters. 
 ''The proof of the pudding in this is not going to be who votes for it, if you have Republicans or not,'' said Mr. Schumer, who is heavily favored to win a third term in 2010. ''It's going to be when it passes and when it goes into effect: does it work?''
 A Democrats-only course poses its own challenges; some elements of health care legislation may not qualify for action under ''reconciliation'' procedures, which are intended only to reduce the deficit. 
 ''The parliamentarian has told us if you try to write substantive legislation using reconciliation, you'll be left with Swiss cheese,'' said Mr. Conrad, who is also chairman of the Budget Committee. Moreover, he added, reconciliation would require stricter budgeting that would make it ''almost impossible'' to meet Democratic liberals' goal of near-universal coverage.
 But Mr. Conrad feels the impatience of fellow Democrats, and he acknowledges that time is running out.
 ''We've got to find a way to reach a conclusion,'' he said, ''or we've got to find another way to get the job done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There's always a worry that, you know, delay, delay, delay, you lose any momentum whatsoever.'' SENATOR CHARLES E. SCHUMER Democrat of New York, on the concerns over reaching a deal on health care (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (85%); TAX LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); TAX INCREASES (60%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (77%); KENT CONRAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



277 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft to Sell Web Ad Agency

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The French advertising giant Publicis Groupe struck a deal Sunday to buy Razorfish, the interactive agency that Microsoft has owned since acquiring the agency's parent company, aQuantive, in 2007. 
 Publicis, which owns interactive agencies like Digitas, agreed to pay about $530 million in cash and stock for Razorfish. The deal had been widely expected.
 After the deal closes, probably in the fourth quarter, Razorfish will maintain its current management as an autonomous unit of the VivaKi division of Publicis.
 Microsoft held an auction for Razorfish, attracting bids from some of the most dominant names in advertising, among them the world's largest agency company, WPP, and the largest agency company in Japan, Dentsu. (Publicis ranks fourth worldwide, behind WPP, the Omnicom Group and the Interpublic Group of Companies.)
 The deal is ''another step forward in realizing our strategic vision of building a world leader in digital communications, a critically important space for our clients,'' Maurice Levy, chairman and chief executive of Publicis in Paris, said in a statement.
 After the deal closes, Mr. Levy said, Publicis will derive about a quarter of its revenue from interactive and digital advertising. The company had expressed the desire to achieve that goal in 2010, so Mr. Levy will be able to check that box a bit early.
 The acquisition is being made for 1.4 to 1.5 times the annual revenue of Razorfish, which was estimated for last year at $400 million. That level is about typical for deals in the current subdued economic climate.
 A big part of the deal is what is being called a strategic alliance agreement between Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., and Publicis, which also owns agencies like Saatchi & Saatchi, Leo Burnett, the MediaVest Group and ZenithOptimedia.
 The agreement, which is to run for five years, calls for Publicis to buy display and search advertising on Microsoft properties like MSN.com and Bing, the new search engine. 
 The agreement also calls for Microsoft to spend a certain amount with Razorfish.
 Razorfish, formerly known as Avenue A/Razorfish, works for marketers like Best Buy, Ford Motor, McDonald's, MillerCoors, Levi Strauss & Company, and Starwood Hotels and Resorts. The agency has about 2,000 employees. Bob Lord will continue as chief executive after the deal is completed.
 The mix of cash and stock that Microsoft will receive is to include about 6.5 million shares of Publicis, valued on Friday at about $230 million. 
 Publicis was recently identified in news reports as being the most likely winner of the auction for Razorfish, apparently because it was the most willing to spend the specified amount on ad space on the Microsoft digital properties after a deal closed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); SEARCH ENGINES (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (96%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (63%); AVENUE A/RAZORFISH INC (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (53%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (53%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (52%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (96%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); HOT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (63%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

PERSON: MAURICE LEVY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) FRANCE (88%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



278 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CHINA EVACUATES MILLION 
 As Typhoon Hits
 Typhoon Morakot slammed into the east coast of China, packing winds up to 111 miles an hour, destroying hundreds of homes and forcing a million people to flee. 
 PUSHING REFORM IN ANGOLA
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton gave a gentle nudge to Angola, urging the nation, a major oil producer that has drawn close to China, to push harder to democratize. PAGE A6
 TENSIONS OVER IMMIGRATION 
 The immigration of Mexicans into Canada, which the Canadian government says is overwhelming its system, is expected to be a central theme at a summit meeting between leaders from the United States, Mexico and Canada. PAGE A6
 RUSSIA'S TROUBLED POLICE
 For many Russians, including top officials, a recent shooting rampage by a police major has come to symbolize a systemic crisis in Russian law enforcement, making the issue of police criminality -- already a fact of life in the country, if a largely unaddressed one -- almost impossible to ignore. PAGE A6
 Mexican Lawyer Is Killed A6
 National
 RAUCOUS ENVIRONMENT MAKES HEALTH DEAL UNLIKELY
 The rowdy start of the August Congressional recess has galvanized activists on both ends of the ideological spectrum, making it tougher for health care negotiators to stake out a middle ground, especially in conservative locales that Democratic centrists call home. John Harwood, the Caucus. PAGE A6
 HEALTH CARE FOR BEGINNERS
 Each side in the health care debate hopes to win ground by boiling down one of the most complex policy discussions in history into nuggets. PAGE A8
 250 INJURED IN PRISON RIOT
 Rioting inmates smashed and burned the California Institution for Men in Chino, one of the nation's largest prison facilities, for 11 hours, injuring 250 prisoners and hospitalizing 55 inmates. PAGE A9
 New York
 BRUISING FIGHT IN ALBANY
 Over Sexual-Abuse Bill
 A bill that would allow people to sue their alleged sexual molesters was yanked from the legislative calendar in Albany, which raised questions about its future viability. The bill's collapse was a victory for the Roman Catholic Church, which led a shrewd and relentless campaign against it. PAGE A11
 Crash Leaves Families Shattered A13
 Business
 WITH CABLE, A WAY TO HELP
 Bolster Growth in Africa
 The opening of a fiber-optic cable providing broadband Internet service to millions of people in southern and eastern Africa is part of an ambitious plan to expand Web access and help spur the continent's economy and technology industry. PAGE B6
 MURDOCH AND THE PAY WALL
 It is difficult to tell how serious Rupert Murdoch is about putting all of his news Web sites behind pay walls, given his history of grand statements that were only that. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 CHECK DEPOSITS BY PHONE
 USAA, a privately held bank and insurance company, plans to update its iPhone application this week to introduce the check deposit feature, which requires a customer to photograph both sides of the check with the phone's camera.
 CHINA'S INTERNET DARLING
 Across China, millions of people are using Taobao.com to sell just about anything they can find at neighborhood stores and wholesale markets or even smuggle out of factories. Internet analysts say this booming marketplace has turned Taobao into China's newest Internet darling. PAGE B1
 A MURKY FUTURE FOR '24'
 An executive at Fox Broadcasting surprised the producers of ''24'' when, in response to a reporter's question, he said that the network had not decided whether the expensive hit show would return after its eighth season. PAGE B3
 Sports
 CONSIDERING NEW SPORTS
 For Inclusion at 2016 Games
 Golf and rugby appear to be the favorites to be the sports added to the 2016 Summer Olympics, with softball or baseball perhaps in the running, according to Olympic and international sports officials. PAGE D1
 UNITED FRONT BEHIND SLUGGER
 When the Red Sox's David Ortiz explained how he might have tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs, it was part of an unusual concert among a player, his team, the players union and the commissioner's office in response to doping allegations. PAGE D1
 SANTANA CARRIES METS
 Johan Santana provided a well-needed lift to the Mets' psyches with his arm and his bat, helping deliver a 5-1 victory against the Padresin avoiding a four-game sweep. PAGE D2
 Arts
 A NOVELIST WITH AN EYE
 For the Unusual
 The Mexican novelist Mario Bellatin has emerged in recent years as one of the leading voices in experimental Spanish-language fiction, but he is little known in the English-speaking world. PAGE C1
 A CASE OF POLITICAL SURVIVAL
 ''The Nine Lives of Marion Barry,'' a documentary that will be broadcast on HBO, looks at the controversial former mayor of Washington, and his penchant for both fearlessness and durability. PAGE C1
 SUNSHINE AND EARNESTNESS
 The pop singer Jason Mraz performed Friday night at the Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, and he was his normal, unflappably sincere self. Review by Jon Caramanica. Page C5 
 FLASHING BACK TO THE '60S
 Ginia Bellafante writes that ''Lords of the Revolution,'' a series of five documentaries on VH1 profiling nonconformists of the '60s and '70s is in many respects too good for what the network has become. Page C4 
 Obituaries
 MIKE SEEGER, 75
 A singer and multi-instrumentalist , he played an important role in the folk revival of the 1950s and '60s, inspiring Bob Dylan and many others to explore the roots of American song. PAGE A16
 EVELYN COKE, 74
 A home care aide and a single mother of five, she filed a lawsuit that reached the Supreme Court in 2007 to reverse federal labor regulations that exempt home care agencies from having to pay overtime. PAGE A16
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A15
 JUDITH WARNER PAGE A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TYPHOONS (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); PRISONS (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); RIOTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CAUCUSES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); CONTUSIONS (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); BROADBAND (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); RELIGION (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); ANGOLA (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (86%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



279 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Praises Angola, But Urges More Reform

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: LUANDA, Angola 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton gave a gentle nudge to Angola on Sunday, urging this up-and-coming nation, a major oil producer that has drawn close to China, to push harder to democratize.
 Mrs. Clinton said she was ''encouraged by the steps the Angolan government has taken,'' like the peaceful parliamentary election last year. But she said the country needs to go further, holding presidential elections and investigating human rights abuses, sooner than later.
 ''We know opportunity and prosperity for the Angolan people depend on good governance and democracy,'' Mrs. Clinton said, emphasizing what has become the dominant theme of her seven-nation Africa tour. 
 For years Angola was a no-go zone, the scene of one of the fiercest battles of the cold war, in which American-backed rebels squared off against tens of thousands of Cuban troops in a jungle war that dragged on for more than two decades and killed hundreds of thousands of people.
 The guns are quiet now, and a beat of life is returning to the streets of Luanda, the capital, a city with graceful architecture sprawled along the sea. 
 But once again Angola is a crucial battleground. This time, it is the contest for influence in Africa, largely fought between the United States and an increasingly powerful, resource-hungry China.
 As if to underscore that, a Chinese forklift crew whizzed past Mrs. Clinton's motorcade just as she pulled up to the hilltop presidential palace Sunday afternoon to meet Angolan officials. Roads, bridges, schools, railways, phone lines -- the Chinese are working on them all, lifting this country out of the ruins of war and hoping in return to secure the inside track on Angola's crude oil reserves, which now have it tied with Nigeria for the title of Africa's biggest oil producer.
 But Mrs. Clinton did not bite when asked to comment on American efforts to check the rising Chinese influence. ''I'm not looking at what anyone else does in Angola,'' she said at a news conference. ''I'm looking at what the United States can do.''
 The United States has had a sad history with Angola, the third stop on Mrs. Clinton's Africa trip. In the 18th century, Angola was a major slave market, with countless Angolans shipped to the United States in chains. After Angola won independence from Portugal in 1975, the United States bankrolled what turned out to be a brutal rebel movement. 
 The rebels lost, the Communist, Cuban-backed movement won and though the Angolan government today says that it has outgrown Marxism, the nation's flag still looks much like the Soviet hammer and sickle. 
 ''This is a history of missed encounters,'' said Angela Braganca, an Angolan lawmaker.
 American diplomats here said Mrs. Clinton will be the first secretary of state to spend the night in the country.
 With the nation recovering, the American government does not want to miss out on Angola's oil bonanza. ExxonMobil and Chevron are already here, competing against Chinese firms for new deals. Last year imports from Angola to the United States surged by more than 50 percent.
 But the oil money has cleaved Angolan society into the haves and the have-nots, a situation true in many African countries. Mrs. Clinton saw this firsthand. As she sat down for a luncheon buffet at the hilltop palace, the tables heaped with lobster and cakes, the rusty roofs of the teeming slums shimmered below.
 Though Angola's per capita gross domestic product is more than $4,000, a huge sum by African standards, the country remains at the bottom of United Nations development indexes measuring quality of life. The average life span for an Angolan man is 37 years.
 Part of the reason millions of Angolans remain so poor is corruption. According to Human Rights Watch, billions of dollars of oil money have simply disappeared. Opposition politicians told Mrs. Clinton that the Angolan government needed to be investigated and that there was no free press in the country.
 Mrs. Clinton seemed quite aware of many of these issues, but again, her tone toward Angolan officials seemed more friendly than pushy.
 ''Corruption is a problem everywhere,'' Mrs. Clinton said at the news conference, with the country's foreign minister standing beside her. ''It's only fair to add that Angola has begun taking steps to increase transparency.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Angolan foreign minister, Assuncao dos Anjos, in Luanda, the capital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALADINO JASSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); COLD WAR (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (56%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (94%); CHINA (93%); NIGERIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



280 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: As Bombast Escalates, a Primer on the Details of the Health Care Overhaul

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the debate over the future of health care now shifted from Capitol Hill to town halls, supporters and critics of the Democrats' legislative proposals are polishing their sound bites and sharpening their attack lines.
 Increasingly, the battle looks like a presidential contest, with expensive advertising campaigns and Internet-driven efforts to mobilize local support. It can be difficult to sort fact from fiction, as angry protesters denounce the legislation at raucous public forums.
President Obama and his Democratic allies in Congress have made the health care overhaul their top priority, putting their political futures on the line. Democrats had hoped to spend the month whipping up support for the legislation, but instead find themselves on the defensive, responding to what Mr. Obama describes as ''outlandish rumors'' spread by critics.
 Many Republicans view fighting the president as a smart political strategy, turning a potentially wonkish debate over Medicare reimbursement rates and subsidies for the uninsured into an ideological battle over the government's role in health care. 
 Each side hopes to win ground by boiling down one of the most complex policy discussions in history into digestible nuggets. For beachside viewers who might be more interested in iced-tea service than fee-for-service, here is a guide to the main fight points.
 KEEP IT OR LOSE IT?
 Mr. Obama has said repeatedly, as he told the American Medical Association in June: ''If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor, period. If you like your health care plan, you'll be able to keep your health care plan, period. No one will take it away, no matter what.''
 These assurances reflect an aspiration, but may not be literally true or enforceable.
 The legislation does not require insurers or employers to continue offering the health benefits they now provide. The House bill sets detailed standards for ''acceptable health care coverage,'' which would define ''essential benefits'' and permissible co-payments. Employers that already offer insurance would have five years to bring their plans into compliance with the new federal standards.
 The Senate health committee bill goes somewhat further by offering an ''option to retain current insurance coverage.''
 The legislation could have significant implications for individuals who have bought coverage on their own. Their policies might be exempted from the new standards, but the coverage might not be viable for long because insurers could not add benefits or enroll additional people in noncompliant policies. 
 Dallas L. Salisbury, president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a private nonpartisan group, said: ''The president and Democrats in Congress are saying what they would like. Their promises may not be literally true because your health plan may change, and your doctor may no longer accept your insurance.''
 SOCIALIZED MEDICINE 
 Or Uniquely American?
 Republicans harshly criticize Democratic proposals to create a government-run insurance plan, or public option, to compete with private insurers. Republicans say the public plan would drive insurers out of business and lead to ''socialized medicine'' or a government takeover of health care. Democrats say they want a ''uniquely American'' system with public and private elements. 
 For now, the Republican criticism seems overblown. Major versions of the legislation all rely heavily on a continuation of private health plans, offered by employers and by insurance companies, subject to sweeping new federal regulations. 
 Whether a public plan would crowd out private insurers depends on details yet to be decided, including its premiums and its payment rates for health care providers. 
 The public plan is not even a certainty. To win bipartisan support for the overhaul, some Democrats have proposed private nonprofit health care cooperatives, instead of a public plan, to compete with private insurers. 
 The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that, under the House bill, the number of people with employer-sponsored insurance would climb to 162 million in 2016, which is 3 million more than expected under current law. Further, it said, enrollment in the proposed public plan might total 11 million, far lower than estimates cited by Republicans. 
 An additional 10 million people, most of them now uninsured, would enroll in Medicaid, the budget office said. 
 At any rate, the federal government already holds sway over the health care system through Medicare, Medicaid and various insurance programs for children, veterans, military personnel and other federal employees. The federal government will account for 35 percent of the expected $2.5 trillion in health spending this year, and that does not include subsidies built into the tax code.
 BLAMING INSURERS 
 Or Ensuring Blame?
 Democrats have unleashed a blistering attack on private health insurers as they try to convince the vast majority of Americans who already have coverage that the current system is tilted in favor of corporate profits, not patients, and that insurers are a main obstacle to passing legislation.
 Insurers say they support some of the most important Democratic proposals, including a ban on denying coverage or charging higher premiums based on pre-existing medical conditions.
 The insurance industry does oppose a government-run insurance plan and could eventually mobilize against the overhaul. But insurers appear to be less of an obstacle than public apprehension over such sweeping change and skittishness among lawmakers, including centrist Democrats from Republican-leaning districts.
 Most Americans do not know the full cost of their employer-sponsored insurance. And it is easier for Democrats to paint insurers as greedy than to explain the complex math that shows current health care spending is unsustainable.
 DEFICIT-NEUTRAL 
 Or Budget-Buster?
 Mr. Obama has avoided dictating specific provisions of health care legislation. But he has insisted that the bill not add to the federal debt, leading Democrats to say that the overhaul will be ''deficit neutral,'' with the roughly $1 trillion, 10-year cost to be offset by reduced spending or new taxes. 
 The Congressional Budget Office has yet to issue cost estimates for the latest versions of the bill approved by three House committees. But it has warned that the legislation ''would probably generate substantial increases in federal budget deficits'' beyond 2019, in part because health costs are rising faster than the rate of inflation and proposed new taxes would not keep up. 
 Republicans use those warnings to cast doubt on the claim by Mr. Obama that the legislation will ''bend the cost curve'' by slowing the growth of health spending in the long term. Democrats say the overhaul will lead to savings that cannot be calculated under budgeting rules. At this point, it is difficult to know who is right. 
 Over the next 10 years, the budget office said, the House bill would ''result in a net increase in the federal budget deficit of $239 billion,'' partly because of an increase in Medicare spending to avert sharp cuts in payments to doctors scheduled to occur under existing law. 
 House Democrats say the higher doctor payments should not count in the cost because they fix a problem that predates the Obama administration and Democratic control of Congress. 
 EUTHANASIA
 And Abortion
 Conservative critics say the legislation could limit end-of-life care and even encourage euthanasia. Moreover, some assert, it would require people to draw up plans saying how they want to die.
 These concerns appear to be unfounded. AARP, the lobby for older Americans, says, ''The rumors out there are flat-out lies.'' 
 The House bill would provide Medicare coverage for optional consultations with doctors who advise patients on life-sustaining treatment and ''end-of-life services,'' including hospice care. 
 The legislation instructs Medicare officials to propose ways to measure the quality of end-of-life care. Doctors would have financial incentives to report data on such care to the government. 
 On abortion, the situation is more complex. Opponents of abortion, like the National Right to Life Committee, say the legislation would use tax dollars to subsidize insurance that could cover abortion.
 Under a bill approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, health plans, including the new government insurance plan, could choose to cover abortion. But they generally could not use federal money to pay for the procedure and instead would have to use money from the premiums paid by beneficiaries.
 Douglas D. Johnson, legislative director of the National Right to Life Committee, said, ''Under either the Senate bill or the House bill, the federal government would run a huge system of subsidizing elective abortion.''
 Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado, said the bill would keep current restrictions on the use of federal money for abortion, but ''would not expand the prohibitions, as many Republicans want to do.''
 CUTTING MEDICARE
 Or Preserving It?
 To help finance coverage for the uninsured, Congress would squeeze huge savings out of Medicare, the program for older Americans and the disabled. These savings would pay nearly 40 percent of the bills' cost.
 The legislation would trim Medicare payments for most services, as an incentive for hospitals and other health care providers to become more efficient. The providers make a plausible case that the cutbacks could inadvertently reduce beneficiaries' access to some types of care.
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Democrats would make ''massive cuts to Medicare to pay for more government-run health care.'' 
 Mr. Obama told AARP last month, ''Nobody is talking about reducing Medicare benefits.'' All the savings, he said, would come from measures to ''eliminate waste and inefficiency in Medicare.'' As an example, he cited duplicative tests ordered by different doctors for the same patient. 
 But some proposals could affect beneficiaries. The major bills in Congress would cut more than $150 billion over 10 years from federal payments to private health plans that care for more than 10 million Medicare beneficiaries. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A10) CHARTS: THE STATE OF PLAY: What remains to be done with legislation to overhaul the nation's health care system, now that Congress has recessed until after Labor Day. This is what Democrats hope will happen.
 Finding Common Ground on Legislation: While many areas of consensus have emerged in the different measures making their way through Congress, lawmakers will tackle some major differences when they return in September.(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (87%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MEDICARE (73%); INSURANCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009



281 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Collision Revives Debate Over Whether Copter Tours Are Worth the Cost

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The fatal collision between a small plane and a helicopter filled with tourists over the Hudson River has revived questions about just how much the city gains from the sightseeing tours, and whether those benefits outweigh concerns about safety and noise.
 The Bloomberg administration has dismissed calls for a ban on helicopter excursions in New York City, suggesting that they contribute significantly to the local economy. After the crash on Saturday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg reiterated that the city has ''commercial interests'' in keeping the tourist flights going. 
 But city officials struggled on Monday to come up with the numbers to strongly support that position. The city's Economic Development Corporation estimated about 300,000 tourists took helicopter trips last year. They could not say what economic impact those tours had, but estimated that the revenue for all unscheduled air transportation, including corporate charters, was about $290 million.
 That would amount to a tiny fraction of the city's overall economic output, which is estimated to exceed $400 billion annually. And the sightseeing helicopter business is expected to shrink over the next few years, as it is gradually pushed out of the heliport at West 30th Street.
 The heliport, which was the takeoff point for the helicopter involved in the crash, is phasing out sightseeing flights as part of a lawsuit settlement. The number of excursions, which had exceeded 20,000 a year, will be limited to 12,500 during the 10-month period that ends March 31, 2010. After that, the heliport will be used only for corporate charters and emergency flights. 
 The Economic Development Corporation has cleared the way for the excursion operators to move from West 30th Street to the Downtown Manhattan Heliport. 
 It is managed by a small company called FirstFlight, which plans to install fuel pumps so that sightseeing flights can operate throughout the day. One of the directors of FirstFlight, Alvin S. Trenk, is an owner of Liberty Helicopters, which operated the flight involved in the collision.
 Mr. Trenk did not respond to requests for comment. His representatives at Rubenstein Communications declined to comment.
 Jeffery Smith, the chairman of the Eastern Region Helicopter Council, said helicopter tour operators ''support the No. 2 industry in New York City, and that is tourism.'' Mr. Smith said he could not provide any statistics on total revenue or taxes paid by the industry, but he said they were impressive.
 Critics of the helicopter services disputed that claim. Albert K. Butzel was president of the Friends of Hudson River Park when that group sued the operator of the West Side heliport. Last year, the suit was settled with an agreement by the operator, Air Pegasus, to limit the number of flights this year and end them next spring. Mr. Trenk also controls Air Pegasus.
 ''I think the mayor's way off base,'' Mr. Butzel said. ''If there were no helicopter tourist flights, almost certainly that tourist would spend their money on something else.''
 Ten years ago, the Giuliani administration estimated that the annual economic activity generated by the city's sightseeing helicopter business was about $60 million. But that was not enough to dissuade Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani from his plan to shut them down.
 In 1997, the city banned sightseeing flights from the city-owned heliport at the east end of 34th Street. Two years later, it urged that the West Side heliport be closed and that excursion companies be prevented from moving to the Downtown Manhattan Heliport. The objective was to reduce noise more than to prevent accidents.
 Joy Held, the president of the Helicopter Noise Coalition, has been calling for a ban on ''frivolous'' flights over the city for more than a decade. She and other critics helped persuade Mr. Giuliani that the costs of the excursions to residents -- the annoyance, broken concentration and lost sleep -- outweighed the benefits.
 Even then, Ms. Held said, she believed that city officials had inflated the industry's contribution to the economy. The numbers were ''bogus,'' she said.
 Mr. Bloomberg reversed the course Mr. Giuliani had charted, Ms. Held said, because he favored business and had flown helicopters himself. ''He is pushing economic development,'' she said, ''at the price of the ability of people to live and work in peace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Liberty Helicopters' office on the West Side Highway at 30th Street. The copter on Saturday took off from the heliport there.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (86%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LITIGATION (65%)

COMPANY: SAKER AVIATION SERVICES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488190 OTHER SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



282 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Strong Sales in Europe Helped McDonald's in July

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: OAK BROOK, Ill. 

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation said Monday that sales at stores open at least a year climbed 4.3 percent in July as the nation's biggest hamburger chain benefited from budget-conscious consumers. 
 The company, based in Oak Brook, said that sales at American stores open at least a year climbed 2.6 percent because of new products, including McCafe espresso-based coffee.
 European sales surged 7.2 percent, helped by growth in France and Britain. Sales for Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa rose 2.1 percent, as strength in Australia helped offset weakness in China. Longer operating hours also increased sales.
 McDonald's sales at restaurants open at a year, also called same-store sales, are a key indicator of performance because they measure growth at existing restaurants rather than newly opened ones.
 Total sales declined 0.3 percent because of currency translation.
 Many companies that sell their products abroad convert sales from foreign currencies back to dollars when reporting financial results. When the dollar is stronger than those currencies, it results in fewer dollars in revenue.
 McDonald's results have benefited from consumers trading down to cheaper meal options in the recession, but its second-quarter profit declined 8 percent because of the stronger dollar and a year-ago gain. Results a year ago benefited from a better economy and stimulus checks, the company said.
 McDonald's, which has at least 32,000 restaurants worldwide, plans to release August sales on Sept. 9.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A McDonald's in Beijing. Weak sales in China were offset by strength in Europe and elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); RESTAURANTS (91%); FAST FOOD (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (70%); ASIA (56%); AUSTRALIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



283 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 455 words

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
HELICOPTER FLIGHTS
 And Sotomayor
 Sonia Sotomayor's swearing-in as a justice on the Supreme Court was the top headline on Saturday for less than an hour before it was overshadowed by the collision of a small plane and a helicopter over the Hudson River. 
 The crash, which killed nine people, revived calls for restrictions on sightseeing flights in New York City -- an issue that was at the center of a lawsuit a dozen years ago.
 The ruling in that case was made by none other than Justice Sotomayor. 
 In 1996, in the midst of community concerns about noise, the city's Economic Development Corporation sought to restrict the operations of sightseeing flights from the heliport at the east end of 34th Street in Manhattan. 
 Among other conditions it wanted to impose, the development corporation wanted to reduce flights by banning them on weekends and allowing them to fly only over the East River and Hudson River, not over Second Avenue.
 National Helicopter Corporation of America, which had operated the East 34th Street Heliport for more than 20 years, sued to stop the city from enforcing those restrictions.
 In January 1997, Judge Sotomayor ruled that just two of the seven restrictions -- banning weekend flights and limiting the hours of flights on weekdays -- were enforceable.
 The city appealed Judge Sotomayor's ruling, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit decided that it was generally correct, although it reversed two of her findings. 
 The appeals court affirmed Judge Sotomayor's ruling that the airspace over the city was controlled by the federal government, not the city.
 But the clamor over sightseeing flights from the East Side heliport has long since died down.
 The city evicted National Helicopter from the heliport in 1997 and banned excursions from there that same year.
 Now, most of the traffic at that heliport is ferrying business executives and government officials -- apparently not including Justice Sotomayor.
 When she broke her ankle on a trip to Washington, she was rushing to catch a plane at La Guardia Airport. PATRICK McGEEHAN ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 New Rock Climbing Haven: Between the walls of the climbing world echoes a common phrase that could also be construed as philosophy: Rock climbers are always looking for something new. The next unclimbed peak, the next boulder problem.
 Now, after months of rumors, a new option has opened for New York's indoor climbers. 
 The space, Brooklyn Boulders, which opened in the Gowanus neighborhood in Brooklyn, has 30-foot ceilings above an 18,000-square-foot former warehouse. 
 Brightly colored urethane and nylon grips line most of the walls, which are tilted from just under vertical to totally horizontal. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Justice Sonia Sotomayor (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Rock-climbing, indoors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX LOWTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); CLIMBING (84%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LITIGATION (73%); BONE FRACTURES (61%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



284 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: More Fliers Skipping the Cab

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Getting to the airport on the outskirts of town used to be a simple proposition -- catch a taxi, even if it meant sitting in traffic.
 But in recent years, the number of options has grown, especially at some of the biggest airports, with direct trains and shared-ride services. The additional options are cheaper and also more reliable, in many cases, if there is a lot of traffic on the highways. 
 Shared-ride transfers offered by companies like SuperShuttle in the United States and Go Airport Shuttle, which operates in North America and Britain, can be more time-consuming than a taxi or limousine ride, but are significantly less expensive. And fast trains -- like the Heathrow and Gatwick Express trains in London and AirTrain JFK and AirTrain Newark in the New York area -- are less expensive than a taxi and often faster. 
 The express trains and shared-ride transfers are becoming more attractive to business travelers, said Dave Kilduff, managing director of ground transportation consulting for the CWT Solutions Group, because in ''this type of economic environment, corporations are turning over every rock to save money. They're looking at alternative forms of transportation.''
 And services like the Heathrow Express ''are not only faster, they're keeping people off the road, they're environmentally friendly,'' he added.
 In the first six months of this year, the number of travelers whose flights ended at Heathrow Airport was down 8.9 percent from the period a year earlier. But Heathrow Express's share of those passengers rose 1.6 percent in that period.
 Similarly, passenger traffic at La Guardia, Kennedy International and Newark Liberty International airports, all operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, declined 9.4 percent in the first five months of this year compared with the same period in 2008. But passenger traffic on the Kennedy and Newark AirTrains, also operated by the Port Authority, was 1.4 percent higher in the first five months of this year than the same period last year. 
 William R. DeCota, the Port Authority's director of aviation, estimates that on weekday peak travel times, one-third to one-half of passengers on the Kennedy and Newark trains are business travelers.
 Perhaps the biggest attraction is the cost savings. The AirTrain JFK, which picks up travelers at the Howard Beach and Jamaica train and subway stations, is $5 one way. Travelers flying out of Newark can take a New Jersey Transit train from Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan to Newark Liberty International Airport station, where they pick up AirTrain Newark; the one-way fare for the entire trip is $15. By contrast, a one-way cab ride from Midtown Manhattan to Kennedy Airport is $45, plus tolls and tip, while a one-way cab ride from Midtown to Newark can go as high as $90, plus tolls and tip. Depending on traffic, an AirTrain transfer can also be quicker than a taxi. 
 Kenneth Lin, a senior planning manager in New York for Parsons Brinckerhoff, a consulting company that advised the Port Authority on construction of the AirTrain JFK, says he is a devotee of public transit, including AirTrain JFK.
 ''It's cheaper than a taxi and more reliable during rush hour,'' he said. ''It reduces stress, as it is less idiosyncratic than taxis, and it usually arrives on time. In a car or taxi, it could be a very fast or very slow trip, depending upon traffic.'' 
 The Heathrow and Gatwick Express trains -- both of which have economy and first-class cars -- offer significant time savings: the Gatwick Express travels to Victoria Station in 30 minutes, while the Heathrow Express takes only 15 minutes to get to Paddington Station. During rush hour, those trips can take triple the time in a taxi. 
 A round-trip economy-class fare on Gatwick Expressis $:28.80 (about $48) and a round-trip first-class fare is $:48. On Heathrow Express, the economy fare is $:32 round trip, and the first-class round-trip fare is $:50.
 Money saved by using these trains is also significant: During rush hour, a cab ride from Heathrow to Paddington can cost as much as $:80 ($134), without tip, while a cab ride from Gatwick to Victoria Station can cost as much as $:90 without tip.
 To lure business travelers, Heathrow Express has installed Wi-Fi and cellphone service; Gatwick Express offers cellphone service and refreshments. There is a charge for the Wi-Fi service and refreshments. 
 The two top providers of shared-ride service are SuperShuttle, which is owned by Veolia Transportation and serves 33 airports in 26 markets in the United States, and Go Airport Shuttle, a group of franchised operators that serve 80 airports in 36 cities in the United States and in Toronto and London.
 Both companies set a 15- to 20-minute window of time for passenger pickups, at their home, office or hotel. Passengers travel to the airport in a van with others picked up along the way. 
 A taxi ride may be faster, but will certainly be more expensive. A one-way SuperShuttle ride to La Guardia from the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in Midtown Manhattan is $14.15, and slightly higher from a Manhattan home or office. SuperShuttle typically requires a pickup three hours before a flight departure 
 ShuttleFare.com, a Web site that lets travelers book many types of airport transfers, including those offered by SuperShuttle and Go, recently introduced a corporate discount program that waives its normal $4 service fee per booking, and discounts fares by 7 percent.
 Matthew Holdrege, director of international sales for Strix Systems, a wireless broadband manufacturer in Newbury Parks, Calif., said he found train transfers particularly attractive ''as long as you travel light.'' But, he added, ''If I'm traveling with my wife, who can have a lot of luggage, she may prefer the princess treatment. So forget about public transportation.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Itineraries page on Aug. 11 about airline passengers who choose shuttle vans and trains over taxicabs for transportation to the airport misstated part of the name of the city in which one such passenger, Matthew Holdrege, works. It is Newbury Park, Calif., not Newbury Parks. A reader recently pointed out the error in an e-mail message.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The AirTrain JFK provides a link from subway and train stations to New York's Kennedy International Airport.
 In budget-conscious times, trains and shared-ride vans are becoming more popular as a way to get to and from the airport. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



285 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A Diving Powerhouse Grows From a Farmer's Toil

BYLINE: By DREW JUBERA

DATELINE: MOULTRIE, Ga. 

 BODY:
Past cotton fields and peanut farms, tall pines and wiregrass, small churches and roadside produce stands is a town square loaded with regional touchstones -- historic courthouse, Confederate memorial, tanning salon. All that soon gives way to a leafy neighborhood street ending with a simple declarative sign: Dive With Champions.
 Beyond it, a 10-meter platform tower rises from the sandy soil of this Deep South farm town like some diving-inspired Stonehenge.
 The unlikely sight, about 200 miles southwest of Atlanta, is home to the Moss Farms Diving Tigers -- perhaps the country's most improbable diving powerhouse. 
 Started in the 1960s by Robert Moss, a local farmer known as Moose who dug a pool on his own 2,000 acres so his children could dive, this out-of-the-way program is often compared to the build-it-and-they-will-come theme from ''Field of Dreams.''
 ''This is our cement pond,'' said a smiling Bobby Blank, a past Moss Farms president and a commercial airline pilot whose son, a team alumnus, dives at the University of Georgia. ''It ain't easy to get to, but when folks get here, they love it.''
 Divers from this land-locked agricultural hub of 15,000, situated well below the state's Gnat Line, have piled up an extraordinary list of accomplishments.
 Moss Farms has produced two world age-group champions, at least 24 junior and senior national champions, and 39 Georgia high school state champions.
 Its divers, both men and women, have been named N.C.A.A. all-Americans 38 times; two were named the N.C.A.A. diver of the year, including Moose's grandson, Clayton Moss, in 2003 at Kentucky. Virtually every Moss Farms product has been offered a Division I scholarship. Recent graduates dive at Georgia, Auburn and Tennessee, where Ryan Helms was the 2009 Southeastern Conference male freshman of the year.
 The program's coaches are often as sought as the divers. The former Chinese national team coach Wenbo Chen came to Moultrie in 1994 and left seven years later for Purdue. He then became the coach for USA Diving's National Training Center in Indianapolis and recently moved on to the University of Minnesota. Ron Piemonte, who replaced Chen, left in 2006 for Virginia Tech.
 ''To have a program that started in a backyard pool that's developed that many top divers, I'm willing to say it's second to none,'' said Dan Laak, the head diving coach at Georgia, where a Moss Farms diver has been on the roster for nearly all of his 22 seasons in Athens.
 ''There are a lot of great athletes down there,'' he added. ''In Moultrie, chances are you either play football or you dive.'' 
 The man who created this diving dynasty in the middle of football-mad South Georgia, is still talked about as a kind of indigenous force of nature -- almost 16 years after his death.
 Moss was raised in a log cabin on the plantation he farmed. The first football game he played in was the first game he ever saw. He was a combat pilot with the celebrated Flying Tigers, who fought the Japanese in China during World War II.
 Back on the farm, he and his wife, Janie, raised cotton, tobacco, peanuts and four children. When his kids wanted to dive, he built a pool in 1965 with two Olympic-quality boards. He read everything on the subject and befriended elite coaches, including Dick Smith, a two-time United States Olympic team coach. 
 ''He'd never been a diver, but he knew physics,'' said the former Moss Farms coach Jay Lerew, who now heads Team Orlando Diving, in Florida. ''Moose was a genius when it came to knowing how to maneuver kids in the air.''
 Children across Colquitt County soon showed up at Moss's remote pool -- the scent of hogs often wafting above the 3-meter board -- and he coached them all at no charge.
 The only price: his unsparing demands. Often compared to taskmasters like Bob Knight and Bear Bryant, Moss was feared and beloved. He barked like a drill sergeant. He poked erring divers with his cane fishing pole. If a diver balked at a difficult jump, he would stand by for hours, until the diver relented.
 ''If you weren't serious, you didn't last long,'' said Camila Knowles, 30, who went on to dive at Harvard and is now the chief counsel for Senator Saxby Chambliss, a longtime Moultrie resident.
 ''He was tough, but he loved the kids. He was teaching life lessons: hard work, discipline, how to overcome your fears.''
 In 1970, Moss's daughter Peggy won a National Junior Olympic gold medal. More championships followed. Divers from everywhere competed at the annual Moose Moss Invitational, camping out in cotton fields while feasting on barbecue and the local watermelons.
 But Moss had grander visions. He spent five years gathering design ideas from other diving wells, then made a proposal to the city: the team would raise the roughly $1 million needed to build the pool, including donated materials and services, if Moultrie supplied the property and maintained the facility. He framed it as economic development.
 ''I thought to myself, Moose, you've kind of lost it,'' the longtime mayor Bill McIntosh recalled. ''But you had to know him. He was an inveterate dreamer who wouldn't take no for an answer.''
 The diving-only Moose Moss Aquatic Center -- five platforms, eight springboards, a 6,000-square-feet dry-land practice area -- is now considered one of the country's top outdoor facilities.
 Moultrie has hosted national and international meets, including this month's USA Diving junior and age group championships. Athletes from five foreign countries trained at the facility before the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. Over the years, nearly a dozen youths, from as far away as Connecticut and Illinois, have moved to Moultrie to dive.
 Moss died in 1993, from heart failure, at 75 -- only months after the Aquatic Center opened. But he set up the club to flourish long after his death, and it has.
 Moss Farms is registered as a nonprofit corporation run by volunteer parents. Its $115,000 budget is financed by fees, donations and an annual dove shoot. The coaches' salaries are competitive with many colleges -- the city and school board kick in stipends, because coaches also work for the recreation department and the high school.
 ''Moose envisioned the best way to carry forward what he wanted,'' said Rick Moss, 57, Moose's son and a member of the club's board of directors.
 Rick Moss farms and lives on the family land. After driving the 12 miles there from town one afternoon, he parked his white pickup in front of the original diving well. 
 About the size of a typical suburban deck pool, it is still filled with fresh water: Moss, who dived at North Carolina State, swims laps in it almost every morning.
 He then drove a mile north to Poplar Arbor, a tiny settlement (population: 4) where his father was born and is now buried in the church cemetery. The only reminders of Moose Moss's diving legacy dangle from a decorative urn atop his gravestone: bass lures left by coaches who still fish the farm's irrigation ponds when they pass through Moultrie for a meet.
 ''He wanted to use diving to open doors for his children, and then to open doors for hundreds of kids since,'' said Moss, standing beside the grave. ''His principles and ideals were more important than diving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A plaque at the Moose Moss Aquatic Center pays homage to its founder, who began what is now a world-class facility so his four children could excel. (B9)
 Divers from the Moose Moss Aquatic Center have been named N.C.A.A. all-Americans 38 times, and its coaches are highly sought by Division I programs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EZRA MILLSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); DIVING (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PEANUT FARMING (78%); CHILDREN (75%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); TANNING SALONS (72%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); AIRLINES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ATHENS, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



286 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Assets Still on Books Could Pose Risk, Panel Says

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department's $700 billion bailout program has stabilized the banking system, but it has done little to prod banks to fully deal with the troubled loans on their books, a Congressional oversight panel said in a report to be released Tuesday. 
 The Troubled Asset Relief Program was originally conceived as a program for the government to buy troubled and unsalable mortgages and mortgage-backed securities.
 But the Treasury has never actually used the program to buy assets, in part because it was faster to invest money directly into the nation's banks and in part because banks have not wanted to sell their problem loans and book the loss in their value.
 ''The nation's banks continue to hold on their books billions of dollars in assets about whose proper valuation there is a dispute and that are very difficult to sell,'' the panel said in its latest monthly report. 
 As a result, it warned, many banks could find themselves short of capital if the economy suffered another downturn and their losses on troubled loans soared.
 In an encouraging note, the panel said 18 of the 19 biggest bank holding companies would probably have enough capital even if economic and financial conditions deteriorated more than they have already. That conclusion essentially backed up the results of the Federal Reserve's stress tests in April. 
 But it warned that thousands of small and medium-size banks, which it defined as those with assets of $600 million to $100 billion, might find themselves short a total of $21 billion if the conditions matched its worst-case assumptions.
 The panel noted that other institutions had already estimated the amount of troubled assets on bank balance sheets that had yet to be written down. The Federal Reserve estimated in May that American banks still had about $599 billion in assets to write down. Goldman Sachs and the International Monetary Fund estimated the total at about $1 trillion. And RGE Economics, headed by Nouriel Roubini, has estimated the total at $1.27 trillion.
 The panel urged the Treasury to either expand its current program to soak up troubled assets, the Public-Private Investment Program, ''or consider a different strategy.''
 The five-member oversight panel is headed by Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School. But one member, Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, dissented from the report. 
 The recommendations seem to advocate another bailout of a failed federal program with involuntary taxpayer capital, Mr. Hensarling said in a statement.
 The Treasury, in a statement, said its efforts had already helped stabilize the banking system and that programs to buy problem assets could be expanded quickly if necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%); JEB HENSARLING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



287 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Officials Demand Tighter Control, or Even a Ban, of Hudson Air Traffic

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and AL BAKER

 BODY:
A half-dozen elected officials lined up along the Hudson River on Monday and called for changes in how the airspace above the river is controlled in the aftermath of Saturday's fatal collision of a plane and helicopter.
 One called for banning all air traffic along the corridor if the federal authorities did not have the technology or manpower to monitor and manage it; another called for requiring all aircraft to have crash avoidance technology. Even Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a pilot and the man in charge of safeguarding the city's residents and its economy, said at a later news briefing that he would welcome responsible changes in the oversight of the air corridor.
 ''Amateur hour in the sky is over,'' said the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer.
 Hours later, Deborah A. P. Hersman, the chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating Saturday's crash, said the safety board had made dozens of recommendations to the Federal Aviation Administration and the touring helicopter industry about improving safety in unrestricted airspace and in the air tour industry, many of which were not acted on. 
 She cited no specific recommendations, and did not say whether any of them might have had relevance to the crash on Saturday, the cause of which is far from determined. But she did seem to express some frustration.
 ''We believe that if those recommendations were to be implemented, aviation safety would be improved,'' she said at a news briefing in Hoboken, N.J. ''I think the fact that we are here today shows that there is still a lot of work that needs to be done.''
 But interviews with aviation experts raised questions about the relevance and practicality of many of the initial suggestions made by the local elected officials.
 The F.A.A. has neither the equipment nor personnel to manage the traffic that flies in the unrestricted space up to 1,100 feet above the Hudson in a way that would meaningfully limit accidents, said Barrett Byrnes, who retired last year as a controller at the Kennedy International Airport tower.
 ''The problem is the tall buildings,'' Mr. Byrnes said, saying the structures block radar signals so air traffic controllers cannot see the aircraft to keep them separated. ''These airplanes are at 400 or 500 feet, and the buildings are getting in the way.'' 
 In addition, he and others said, there are nowhere near enough controllers to handle the ''weekend warriors,'' private pilots who turn up on weekends all year long for a jaunt or a sightseeing trip. 
 Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, a Democrat who represents the West Side of Manhattan, dismissed those assertions.
 Another idea floated again over the last two days would be to slice the airspace horizontally and reserve the lower altitudes for helicopters. That might help, experts said, but sometimes helicopters have to climb to higher altitudes to reach their destinations. 
 The planes and helicopters, others have suggested, might be forced to fly during designated times of day and separate from each other. But Peter Goelz, a former managing director at the transportation safety board, said each change could create unintended consequences. 
 ''Let's say you limit the hours that fixed-wing planes can utilize the space,'' Mr. Goelz said. ''Does that mean that the remaining open hours become more crowded because you have cut off four or five hours a day of usage? Does that mean you will have, instead of six planes per hour, 18 planes per hour?''
 Some experts say it is not yet clear that there is any particular problem with the Hudson corridor, despite the crash that left nine dead on Saturday. In most years, there are a handful of midair collisions nationwide among general aviation aircraft; at the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, a group that lobbies for the rights of plane owners, Chris Dancy, a spokesman, said the most recent such collision in the group's records for the Hudson was in 1963. 
 In the waters of the Hudson River on Monday, poor visibility and treacherous currents hampered efforts to recover the two remaining bodies and the plane from the crash. Divers located a man's body in the wreckage of the airplane, but were unable to dislodge it, said Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman. The plane, in the middle of the river, about 60 feet below the surface, was secured and marked with buoys.
 The bodies of seven victims have been recovered, and autopsies on those victims showed that they died of blunt impact injuries of the head, torso and extremities, a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner's office said.
 Part of the debate about future management of the air involves emerging technology that could provide pilots with a ''moving map'' that showed the location over the ground of their aircraft and all others in the area. But most private planes are flown by a single person, who may have trouble switching rapidly from looking at a screen to looking out the window. Workload, in fact, may be an issue in this crash; the fixed-wing plane completed a turn and was told to check in by radio with the tower at Newark Liberty International Airport, but failed to do so. It is not uncommon for busy pilots to have misheard or forgotten the proper frequency or incorrectly tuned the radio.
 A former air traffic control official from the F.A.A., who asked to remain anonymous because his current employer, in the aerospace field, forbids him to be quoted by name, said that a wiser course would be to wait for the safety board to make its findings and ''see if the facts relate to procedures or airspace rules.''
 That official added that while pilots in the Hudson corridor, as in similar corridors in major cities around the country, were responsible for separating themselves, that did not mean there were no rules. Generally in the Hudson, fixed-wing planes stay higher and helicopters lower, and everyone keeps to the right, like on a street, even if there is no line down the middle. 
 ''Density doesn't necessarily drive risk,'' he said. 
 At the F.A.A., Laura J. Brown, a spokeswoman, said that while the space was not controlled, it was ''organized,'' with pilots announcing their location and their intentions on a common radio frequency. But the use of that radio frequency is voluntary.
 Katharina Rolke, a helicopter pilot and chief of operations for Zip Aviation, which operates on Manhattan's West Side, said the voluntary system was often ignored by plane pilots.
 ''It's very rare they announce themselves,'' she said.
 If the corridor were closed to general aviation traffic, Ms. Brown and others said that such planes would have to make wide detours. To go from, say, Hartford to the Jersey Shore would require either flying far out over the water, which is not considered prudent in a single-engine, piston-driven airplane, or swinging around to the west, toward Pennsylvania. 
 Some elected officials said that pilots should be required to file a flight plan. But for small planes, the main function of a flight plan, according to aviation officials, is to let searchers know where to look for wreckage if the plane does not reach its destination.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A news conference, near West 30th Street, was interrupted by a copter. One official suggested requiring all aircraft to have crash avoidance technology.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14)
 Poor visibility and treacherous currents on the river hampered efforts by the Police Department's scuba team to recover the two remaining bodies and the plane.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) MAP: Patchwork Control: The air over the Hudson River is a patchwork of regulated and unregulated airspace through which private planes and helicopters often fly without direct supervision from air traffic controllers. The diagram shows these zones.(Source: Federal Aviation Administration)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HELICOPTERS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); MAYORS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); RADAR SYSTEMS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (56%)

PERSON: JERROLD NADLER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



288 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Appealing for Safer Skies Above New York City

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''9 Die in Plane and Copter Crash Over Hudson'' (front page, Aug. 9):
 How we all would have wished to hear about a repeat miracle on the Hudson after the miraculous Jan. 15 landing of USAirways Flight 1549 this year. 
 The midair collision of a small plane and a helicopter over the Hudson River on Saturday, claiming nine lives, exposes deep fissures in the safety of our air traffic in overcrowded and loosely regulated New York City skies.
 While our deepest condolences go to the grieving families of the victims, it is time to seriously review the proliferation of New York flights by private aircraft, airlines and helicopters. People on the ground and in buildings also face a grave risk from aircraft accidents. 
 I hope that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and New York's senators, Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand, jointly urge the National Transportation Safety Board and Federal Aviation Administration to establish more stringent safety standards for private flights in and around New York City.
 Atul M. Karnik Woodside, Queens, Aug. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In 1977, the heliport atop the former Pan Am Building was closed after a tourist helicopter threw a blade, killing five people and injuring several others.
 The West 30th Street heliport, from which the tourists who were killed took off, is a blight upon the rapidly improving Hudson River Greenway. To stroll or pedal by it while helicopters operate a mere 10 yards away across a chain-link fence makes for a frightening and unsettling interruption in an otherwise peaceful journey.
 The West 30th Street heliport should be closed for good. There are plenty of other ways for tourists to get a good view of Manhattan.
 Michael P. Goldring New York, Aug. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The coverage of this tragic accident does not deal with a critical question: Why is it necessary to allow tourist and recreational flights over New York City? The Hudson River is not simply a transportation route; it also abuts densely settled residential areas. The helicopters and planes fly very close to occupied buildings, creating a serious danger to their occupants.
 Several of the people quoted in the various articles seek to reassure the public that this is a rare accident, and either defend these flights directly (as necessary to commerce) or tacitly. Where are those raising their voices against these flights because of the danger, the noise and the truly minimal impact they have on the city's economy?
 It is long overdue for our public officials to deal with this menace.
 Harriet Frank New York, Aug. 9, 2009
 The writer has done work for HeliFreeNYC, an organization that advocates the banning of tourist helicopters from New York City airspace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRLINES (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (55%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (55%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



289 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: New Graduates Finding Jobs In China (Mandarin Optional)

BYLINE: By HANNAH SELIGSON

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Shanghai and Beijing are becoming new lands of opportunity for recent American college graduates who face unemployment nearing double digits at home. 
 Even those with limited or no knowledge of Chinese are heeding the call. They are lured by China's surging economy, the lower cost of living and a chance to bypass some of the dues-paying that is common to first jobs in the United States. 
 ''I've seen a surge of young people coming to work in China over the last few years,'' said Jack Perkowski, founder of Asimco Technologies, one of the largest automotive parts companies in China. 
 ''When I came over to China in 1994, that was the first wave of Americans coming to China,'' he said. ''These young people are part of this big second wave.'' 
 One of those in the latest wave is Joshua Arjuna Stephens, who graduated from Wesleyan University in 2007 with a bachelor's degree in American studies. Two years ago, he decided to take a temporary summer position in Shanghai with China Prep, an educational travel company.
 ''I didn't know anything about China,'' said Mr. Stephens, who worked on market research and program development. ''People thought I was nuts to go not speaking the language, but I wanted to do something off the beaten track.''
 Two years later, after stints in the nonprofit sector and at a large public relations firm in Beijing, he is highly proficient in Mandarin and works as a manager for XPD Media, a social media company based in Beijing that makes online games.
 Jonathan Woetzel, a partner with McKinsey & Company in Shanghai who has lived in China since the mid-1980s, says that compared with just a few years ago, he was seeing more young Americans arriving in China to be part of an entrepreneurial boom. ''There's a lot of experimentation going on in China right now, particularly in the energy sphere, and when people are young they are willing to come and try something new,'' he said. 
 And the Chinese economy is more hospitable for both entrepreneurs and job seekers, with a gross domestic product that rose 7.9 percent in the most recent quarter compared with the period a year earlier. Unemployment in urban areas is 4.3 percent, according to government data. 
 Grace Hsieh, president of the Yale Club in Beijing and a 2007 graduate, says she has seen a rise in the number of Yale graduates who have come to work in Beijing since she arrived in China two years ago. She is working as an account executive in Beijing for Hill & Knowlton, the public relations company. 
 Sarabeth Berman, a 2006 graduate of Barnard College with a major in urban studies, initially arrived in Beijing at the age of 23 to take a job that would have been difficult for a person her age to land in the United States: program director at BeijingDance/LDTX, the first modern dance company in China to be founded independently of the government. 
 Ms. Berman said she was hired for her familiarity with Western modern dance rather than a knowledge of China. ''Despite my lack of language skills and the fact that I had no experience working in China, I was given the opportunity to manage the touring, international projects, and produce and program our annual Beijing Dance Festival.'' 
 After two years of living and working in China, Ms. Berman is proficient in Mandarin. She travels throughout China, Europe and the United States with the dance company.
 Willy Tsao, the artistic director of BeijingDance/LDTX, said he had hired Ms. Berman because of her ability to make connections beyond China. ''I needed someone who was capable of communicating with the Western world.''
 Another dynamic in the hiring process, Mr. Tsao says, is that Westerners can often bring skills that are harder to find among the Chinese. 
 ''Sarabeth is always taking initiative and thinking what we can do,'' he said, ''while I think the more standard Chinese approach is to take orders.'' He says the difference is rooted in the educational system. ''In Chinese schools students are encouraged to be quiet and less outspoken; it fosters a culture of listening more than initiating.''
 Mr. Perkowski, who spent almost 20 years on Wall Street before heading to China, says many Chinese companies are looking to hire native English speakers to help them navigate the American market. 
 ''I'm working with a company right now that wants me to help them find young American professionals who can be their liaisons to the U.S.,'' he said. ''They want people who understand the social and cultural nuances of the West.''
 Mr. Perkowski's latest venture, JFP Holdings, a merchant bank based in Beijing, has not posted any job openings, but has received more than 60 resumes; a third are from young people in the United States who want to come work in China, he said. 
 Mick Zomnir, 20, a soon-to-be junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is working as a summer intern for JFP. ''As things have gotten more difficult in the U.S., I started to think about opportunities elsewhere,'' he said. He does not speak Chinese but says he will begin studying Mandarin when he returns to M.I.T. in the fall. 
 A big draw of working in China, many young people say, is that they feel it allows them to skip a rung or two on the career ladder. 
 Ms. Berman said: ''There is no doubt that China is an awesome place to jump-start your career. Back in the U.S., I would be intern No. 3 at some company or selling tickets at Lincoln Center.'' 
 For others, like Jason Misium, 23, China has solved the cash flow problem of starting a business. After graduating with a degree in biology from Harvard in 2008, Mr. Misium came to China to study the language. Then he started Sophos Academic Group, an academic consulting firm that works with Chinese students who want to study in the United States. 
 ''It's China's fault that I'm still here,'' he said. ''It's just so cheap to start a business.'' It cost him the equivalent of $12,000, which he had in savings, he said.
 Among many young Americans, the China exit strategy is a common topic of conversation. Mr. Stephens, Ms. Berman and Mr. Misium all said they were planning to return to the United States eventually.
 Mr. Woetzel of McKinsey said work experience in China was not an automatic ticket to a great job back home. He said it was not a marker in the same way an Ivy League education: ''The mere fact of just showing up and working in China and speaking Chinese is not enough.''
 That said, Mr. Woetzel added, someone who has been able to make a mark in China is a valuable hire. 
 ''At McKinsey, we are looking for people who have demonstrated leadership,'' he said, ''and working in a context like China builds character, requires you to be a lot more entrepreneurial and forces you to innovate.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about young American college graduates who are finding job opportunities in China referred imprecisely to the founding of Sophos Academic Group, a consulting firm started by American expatriates that helps Chinese students who wish to study in the United States. While Jason Misium started the firm, he did not do it alone; Matthew Young is a co-founder.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mick Zomnir, 20, landed a summer internship at JFP Holdings in Beijing. (pg.B1)
 Joshua Arjuna Stephens, a 2007 graduate of Wesleyan University, works in Beijing for XPD Media, which makes online games. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (52%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (65%); ASIMCO TECHNOLOGIES LTD (57%); ZYNGA INC (54%)

TICKER: ZNGA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



290 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Gwathmey's Death Further Diminishes 'New York Five'

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
More than 40 years ago, a group of young Manhattan architects with a shared interest in the aesthetics of old-fashioned Modernism began getting together to talk about their work, their lives and the state of the field. And in the decades that followed, even as their styles grew apart -- and as they became celebrities in and beyond the world of architecture -- they continued talking. 
 But now the group, long known as the New York Five, is shrinking: After losing its first member, John Hejduk, in 2000, a second, Charles Gwathmey, died last week. 
 Following the news of Mr. Gwathmey's death, at 71, friends and colleagues from within and outside the group spoke about his weekend houses on the East End of Long Island -- especially one he designed for his parents, completed in 1966 -- and his additions to public buildings, like the Guggenheim Museum by Frank Lloyd Wright and the Art & Architecture Building at Yale, by Paul Rudolph. 
 But they also remembered his beginnings as one of the New York Five, or the Whites, as the group was also known because of its proclivity for white buildings inspired by the purist forms of Le Corbusier. Along with Mr. Gwathmey and Mr. Hejduk, the group included Michael Graves, Peter Eisenman and Richard Meier.
 The five men, who knew one another through the architecture schools they attended and taught in, were living in New York in the mid-1960s, just starting out as practicing architects and teachers. 
 ''We were all involved in teaching and in practice and we respected each other's work,'' Mr. Meier recalled. ''We decided to have a sort of Saturday morning discussion of what we were doing at the time. Each person brought one work.'' 
 Mr. Graves said the meetings were also a way to continue the educations they had begun in architecture school. ''We were all recent graduates,'' he said, ''used to juries and conversations with colleagues. And suddenly you're out on the street and you're not talking to anybody.''
 ''What united us was a need to convene with each other, to be self-critical, to talk about each other's work,'' he added. 
 Members of the Five also participated in a larger architectural group organized by Philip Johnson around 1970 that included the architect and historian Kenneth Frampton, then teaching at Princeton; Colin Rowe, another influential architectural historian and theoretician, from Cornell; and Arthur Drexler, then the curator and director of the department of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art. 
 Somewhere along the way, the five architects started taping the sessions and decided to turn the transcripts into ''a little pamphlet,'' Mr. Meier said, that would feature two houses by each of them. They couldn't come up with a title (though the book came to be known as ''Five Architects''), so they just put their last names on the white square cover in alphabetical order.
 ''We didn't think anybody would read it,'' Mr. Graves said. 
 The book, published by George Wittenborn in 1973, became a sensation. ''It was a cause celebre,'' said the architect Robert A. M. Stern, dean of Yale's architecture school. It was not so much that the five architects shared an aesthetic, Mr. Stern said; they had ''a shared camaraderie and belief that the Modern movement of the 1920s and 1930s was worth revisiting.''
 All of the five were surprised by the book's impact, particularly ''among students of architecture -- in America and Europe as well,'' Mr. Meier said. (Young architects in Italy knew them as ''I Five di New York.'') 
 Mr. Graves said: ''I think people were probably hungry for something other than commercial Modernism. We cared about urbanism and we cared what was said about architecture.''
 Mr. Eisenman thought that architects with different sensibilities should review the book, and suggested the idea to Mr. Stern, who assembled a group that included Jaquelin T. Robertson and Charles Moore to do just that. Their responses to the book, a series of essays called ''Five on Five,'' were published in the magazine Architectural Forum; this second group came to be known as the Grays. 
 After the five Whites, along with some of the Grays, rose to various versions of architectural stardom in the 1980s, some critics argued that they were too concerned with the formal aspects of architecture. 
 ''What was all the fuss about?'' Paul Goldberger wrote of the White-Gray debate in The New York Times in 1993, on the occasion of an exhibition and lecture series called ''Five Architects: Twenty Years Later'' at the University of Maryland. ''It was apparent to only a few people then that all these architects, Whites and Grays alike, had more in common than they had dividing them: at the end of the day they were all profoundly elitist, concerned mainly with the aesthetics of the single-family house, and determined to make architecture in a fairly traditional way.''
 The architects had reunions of their own. ''We continued our friendship, and that's all it was, was a friendship,'' said Mr. Graves, who recalled that Mr. Gwathmey called him ''Gravesy.''
 Mr. Gwathmey had an office three floors below Mr. Meier's on 10th Avenue at 37th Street, in Manhattan. The two collaborated -- along with Mr. Eisenman and Steven Holl -- on a proposal in the 2002 competition to redesign the World Trade Center site. Their scheme featured five glass towers joined by interconnecting horizontal floors. 
 ''This is the one people are going to be fighting about,'' Herbert Muschamp wrote in The New York Times in 2002. ''Superficially, the design ignores the lessons that postmodernism was supposed to have taught us about context, scale, accommodation and reassurance. It may strike some as a throwback to the megastructural superblocks of the 1960s. So what? The project makes its own kind of statement. Continuity with the epic ethos of the Modern era is part of what it has to say.''
 When the architects were collaborating on the proposal, Mr. Gwathmey was always the first to arrive. ''He was really into it,'' Mr. Meier recalled. ''It was the only thing we did as a team, and everyone really took part in an equal way -- it wasn't: 'This was my idea.' '' 
 Mr. Meier, who said he had known Mr. Gwathmey for 50 years, has particularly fond memories from the time when Mr. Gwathmey was first courting his second wife, Bette-Ann Damson, and they all picked corn for dinner in a field adjacent to a barn Mr. Meier was renting on the East End of Long Island. 
 ''Charlie was a sweetheart,'' Mr. Meier said. 
 Indeed, Mr. Gwathmey's fellows say the architect's occasionally gruff manner -- he was known for firing off angry missives to critics and colleagues -- was only on the surface. ''He had a real rough exterior and told it like it was but was a real marshmallow inside,'' Mr. Eisenman said. 
 Of the letters and e-mail messages, Mr. Eisenman said that Mr. Gwathmey's friends often counseled him, ''Write 'em, but don't send 'em.'' But sometimes Mr. Gwathmey couldn't help himself. And when one of his buildings was panned by critics, he took it hard -- particularly the recent harsh reviews of his Yale addition and of his glass residential tower at Astor Place in Manhattan. ''They say architects have thick skins,'' Mr. Graves said. ''We don't. It affects not just your well-being but it affects your practice.''
 The last time Mr. Graves saw Mr. Gwathmey was at a meeting of the Philip Johnson group just a few months ago, at the Four Seasons restaurant. (Their usual location, the Century club, was under renovation.) The two sat next to each other. 
 The talk was mostly about the economy and how it was forcing them to let go of employees for the first time in memory. ''We were all shocked that we were laying off 10 percent or more,'' Mr. Graves said. 
 With Mr. Hejduk gone and now Mr. Gwathmey, Mr. Graves said he realized that ''the New York Five'' was bound to diminish over time. ''It's going to happen,'' he said. ''As we get older, the group will get smaller.''
 ''It was a great group,'' he added. ''Still is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Architects at a gathering, 1996: From left, Harry Cobb, Bernard Tschumi, Stanley Tigerman, David Childs, Michael Graves, Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey, Richard Meier and Ralph Lerner attending a meeting at the University of Cincinnati.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Charles Gwathmey remained true to his Modernist views throughout his 40-year career. Clockwise from right, Mr. Gwathmey's house for his parents on Long Island (1966), the project that gained him his first fame and was a sensation at the time
a house in Belevedere, Calif. (2003)
a 2002 proposal for the World Trade Center site, a collaboration of Mr. Gwathmey, Richard Meier, Peter Eisenman and Steven Holl
Mr. Gwathmey's Astor Place condominiums in the East Village (2005)
and a model of his addition to Paul Rudolph's Art & Architecture Building at Yale, completed last year.(PHOTOGRAPHS, FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARK SCHWARTZ
EDUARD HUEBER AND DBOXSTUDIO
NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HISTORY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



291 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Yemen's Instability Grows as One of 3 Insurgencies Flares Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
An intermittent rebellion in northwestern Yemen has flared up again in the past 10 days, leaving dozens dead and wounded and adding a new element of instability to a country that is already facing a violent separatist movement in the south and an increasingly bold insurgency by Al Qaeda. 
 After a series of armed clashes with the military, Shiite rebels led by Abdul-Malik al-Houthi appeared to be in control of several areas of Saada Province, the remote, mountainous area in the north where an insurgency has raged on and off since 2004, witnesses and local officials said. Efforts toward a cease-fire were under way on Sunday and Monday, with no clear result. 
 Yemen, a poor, arid country in the southern corner of the Arabian peninsula, has gained new attention in recent months from American military officials, who are concerned about Al Qaeda's efforts to set up a regional base there. Late last month, Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top United States commander in the Middle East, visited Yemen and pledged to support its counterterrorism efforts. 
 Al Qaeda's growing presence in Yemen -- where it took credit for a deadly attack on the American Embassy last year -- is especially troubling because the country's fractious tribes and rugged geography make it notoriously difficult to control. 
 In recent months, President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who has expertly played Yemen's various tribes and factions against one another for decades, has faced more serious threats to his authority. 
 In the south, a simmering protest movement has burst into open rebellion, with armed rebels raising the flag of the formerly independent South Yemen. In late July, at least 20 people were killed after demonstrators in southern Abyan Province threatened to break open a local prison where detainees were being held. A series of ambushes by rebel forces has left a number of police officers dead; details are difficult to ascertain because the government has clamped down on news coverage. 
 As important as the violence has been the defection of some leading political figures. In April, Tareq al-Fadhli, an important ally of Mr. Saleh, joined the southern secessionist movement. Mr. Fadhli is an influential tribal figure who fought with Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan and helped organize former jihadists to fight against a southern secession movement on Mr. Saleh's behalf in 1994. 
 North and south Yemen were unified in 1990 after years of turmoil, but many southerners, including former military officers, say they are treated as second-class citizens. Rising unemployment has fueled the discontent. 
 Last week, in an interview on Al Jazeera, the Arabic news network, a member of one of Yemen's most powerful families surprised the country's political establishment by calling for Mr. Saleh to step down. The man, Hamid al-Ahmar, whose father was one of Mr. Saleh's most important allies, brazenly said he could speak out against the president -- something scarcely anyone dares to do -- because his tribal confederation would protect him. 
 Yemen has long been a haven for jihadists, and the turmoil of recent years -- along with a severe crackdown on terrorism in neighboring Saudi Arabia -- has led some Qaeda figures to resettle there. Several former Guantanamo detainees fled this year to Yemen from Saudi Arabia and pledged to mount attacks on Saudi Arabia and other countries from their Yemeni redoubt. The Yemeni branch of Al Qaeda has an active propaganda arm and appears to have built relationships with tribes in the Marib region that have helped protect it, analysts say. 
 Despite the Yemeni government's periodic claims that all three insurgencies -- in the south, the north and by Al Qaeda -- are united against it, there is no evidence that they are working together. Still, the convergence is troubling. 
 ''All of these problems are coalescing and exacerbating each other in ways that are not completely knowable at this time,'' said Gregory D. Johnsen, a Yemen expert who is currently in the country. ''The three crises have combined, along with the economy, to make things look bleaker here than they have in a long time.'' 
 Although Yemen has had some notable successes in fighting jihadists and has built a crack counterterrorism strike force, the government has been hampered by a lack of money and by widespread corruption. The country's small oil supplies are rapidly disappearing, a water crisis is growing worse and the population of 22 million is swelling. 
 Yemen has also long suffered from violent tribal feuds, banditry and kidnapping, much of it beyond the control of the central government. In June, nine foreigners were kidnapped while on a picnic in Saada Province, and three soon turned up dead. Six remain unaccounted for: three toddlers and their parents, who are German, and a British engineer.
 In that context, the renewed violence in the north -- where a truce last summer seemed to have ended the war -- bodes ill for Yemen's stability. The conflict has already left thousands dead in the past five years and produced tens of thousands of refugees. It also has troubling sectarian overtones: the rebels are Zaydis, an offshoot of Shiite Islam, and the government has sometimes used hard-line Sunni tribesmen as proxy warriors. 
 The media office for Mr. Houthi, the Shiite rebel leader, issued a statement on Friday saying government helicopters were dropping leaflets calling on the people to take up arms against his supporters. The statement called on the government to stop its attacks and to release Houthi supporters being held in prison. 
 The rebels and the Yemeni military appear to be building up their forces in the area, and some military officials have predicted that if another round of conflict breaks out in Saada, it will be bloodier than any of those in the past. 

GRAPHIC: MAP: The military has clashed with rebels in Saada Province. Map details the Saada Province of Yemen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); PRISONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); DAVID PETRAEUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) YEMEN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



292 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Nigerian Amnesty Plan Faces Difficulties

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Senan Murray contributed reporting from Port Harcourt, Nigeria.

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal 

 BODY:
A new peace effort in one of Africa's most strategic yet troubled regions, Nigeria's Niger Delta, is being greeted with weary skepticism by experts and citizens who have been caught up in years of violence and other failed attempts to end the conflict.
 The Nigerian government, beleaguered by unrest in both the north and south, is trying to quell the southern violence with an amnesty program for militants. For years, fighters demanding a greater share of the region's wealth have been sabotaging the country's oil industry, one of the United States' biggest suppliers, with brazen attacks on pipelines, oil depots and kidnappings of industry workers. 
 The government began its 60-day amnesty offer last Thursday for any fighter willing to come out of the region's million-square-mile network of oil-laden creeks and swamps, turn in his weapon and accept a $13 daily stipend in exchange. Around 8,000 to 10,000 fighters could take up the offer, officials say. 
 The government insists the program is already ''right on track,'' in the words of a spokesperson, but difficulties emerged immediately. 
 One main militant group, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, or MEND, has continued attacks. There is a visible lack of activity at government arms-collection centers. And perhaps most important, there is a broad sentiment that the Niger Delta's deep-seated problems of poverty, corruption and pollution are going unaddressed. 
 At several would-be arms depots over the weekend in Bayelsa and Delta States, no militants were stepping forward to turn in their guns, leaving the security agents to sit around waiting. 
 Notwithstanding a ceremonious meeting between President Umaru Yar'Adua and 32 militant leaders Friday in the Nigerian capital, Abuja -- they lined up to shake his hand -- experts predicted that the new peace program was unlikely to have much impact on the sabotage campaign that helped cut Nigerian oil production over 40 percent between 2006 and March of this year. 
 ''I don't think the amnesty as proposed will have the capacity to end violence in the Niger Delta,'' said Dr. Sam Amadi, who was a member of the special government committee set up to study the region's problems. 
 ''It's credible to think that after a normal lull there will be a resurgence,'' he said. ''The fundamental issues of equity and democratization that are driving the activity, there are no serious or effective proposals under way to deal with this.'' 
 Even Henry Okah, who has long been considered a MEND leader and was released from prison last month in what seemed a test run of the amnesty deal, denied that the effort would work. ''How many weapons have been recovered?'' Mr. Okah said in a telephone interview. ''What makes it a success? Where are the weapons? I think it's all just a joke.''
 The outcome is of far more than academic interest to the United States. West Africa was supplying about 15 percent of daily oil imports by the middle of this decade, and Nigeria, as the world's 11th largest producer, was by far the biggest regional source, according to a 2007 paper in International Policy Report by three American experts. 
 Little of that wealth has made it down to the Delta, however. The same experts cited figures showing that 80 percent of oil money goes to 1 percent of the Nigerian population. 
 Meanwhile the Delta remains destitute even by Nigerian standards, with one doctor for every 150,000 inhabitants in Bayelsa and Delta, and pervasive ''social deprivation, abject poverty, filth and squalor,'' according to the United Nations Development Program. 
 ''The situation is terribly deplorable in terms of infrastructure, poverty, wants, and environmental pollution,'' said Dr. Youpele Banigo, who was also a member of the government study committee. 
 ''The Niger Delta fighters are not fighting for an amnesty,'' said Mr. Okah. ''They're fighting to address the conditions to which the people of the Niger Delta have been subjected to for 50 years.''
 The combination of wealthy foreign oil companies, entrenched poverty and ideal terrain for guerrilla warfare has produced a state of semi-conflict for much of the decade, with routine confrontations between armed groups -- some with political agendas, others simply out for personal gain -- and government troops. 
 There were 92 attacks on the oil industry in 2008, up a third from the previous year; 1,000 people killed in the first nine months of last year; and over 128 people kidnapped between January 2008 and April 2009, according to the International Crisis Group. 
 In May, the Nigerian military sought to crush the militants with firepower, as it has in the past, at one point using helicopters with machine guns on a village where a festival was taking place, according to Amnesty International; hundreds were believed to have been killed and wounded in the assaults, including women and children, Amnesty said.
 But as in the past, the military campaign appeared to have little effect. In July, militants managed to strike outside the Niger Delta as well, setting fire to an oil depot and tankers in the country's economic center, Lagos. 
 The attack took place after the announcement of the amnesty program, underscoring the low esteem in which militants' appeared to hold the government efforts. 
 A government spokesperson, Timiebi Koripamo-Agary, insisted that the amnesty was a move in the right direction. ''We know that amnesty alone can't solve the problem,'' said Ms. Koripamo-Agary.
 Outside the government, though, there is skepticism. 
 ''The money realized will be used to rearm,'' said Anyakwee Nsirimovu, chairman of the Niger Delta Civil Society Coalition. ''Criminals who claim to be militants will come forward and take the amnesty, and that will be delaying doomsday. As long as the equity situation is not solved, you will continue to have people who will blow up pipelines.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); AMNESTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (58%) NIGERIA (98%); NIGER (94%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



293 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: White House Adapts to New Playbook in Debate on Health Care Overhaul

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JACKIE CALMES; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House on Monday started a new Web site to fight questionable but potentially damaging charges that President Obama's proposed overhaul of the nation's health care system would inevitably lead to ''socialized medicine,'' ''rationed care'' and even forced euthanasia for the elderly.
 But in introducing the Web site, White House officials were tacitly acknowledging a difficult reality: they are suddenly at risk of losing control of the public debate over a signature issue for Mr. Obama and are now playing defense in a way they have not since last year's campaign.
 Speaking at a summit of North American leaders in Mexico on Monday, Mr. Obama sounded an optimistic note, predicting that ''the American people are going to be glad that we acted to change an unsustainable system so that more people have coverage.'' 
 But aides to Mr. Obama said the rapidly escalating threat to his health care plans had led him to order them to come up with a crisper message. 
 And Democratic Party officials enlisted in the fight by the White House acknowledged in interviews that the growing intensity of the opposition to the president's health care plans -- within the last week likened on talk radio to something out of Hitler's Germany, lampooned by protesters at Congressional town-hall-style meetings and vilified in television commercials -- had caught them off guard and forced them to begin an August counteroffensive. 
 In the process, the administration has had a harder time getting across the themes it wanted to strike in this period: that the current system is unsustainable and that Mr. Obama's plan holds concrete benefits for people who already have health insurance as well as for those who do not.
 ''We all had a good sense that some of this was going to take place,'' said Brad Woodhouse, the communications director for the Democratic National Committee. ''To be fair, I think we were probably a little surprised -- just a little -- at the use of swastikas and the comparisons to Adolf Hitler and the Third Reich that even Rush Limbaugh has fanned the flames on. And we were a little surprised at the mob mentality.'' (Mr. Woodhouse's use of the phrase ''mob mentality'' was itself part of the Democratic effort to paint opponents speaking out against the plan as part of an unruly but organized effort.)
 For some of Mr. Obama's supporters, the newly galvanized opposition to his proposed policies provided a troubling flashback to the successful effort to stop President Bill Clinton's similarly ambitious plans 16 years ago -- a fight Mr. Obama's aides had studied carefully to avoid making the same fatal mistakes. 
 White House officials say such fears are unwarranted, arguing that the conservative protests are getting outsize coverage on cable news. ''Don't associate loud with effective,'' Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said in an interview, adding that he detected no anxiety from supportive lawmakers in politically vulnerable districts. ''What is coming across is a lot of noise and a lot of heat without a lot of light.''
 And White House officials say their August counteroffensive is a break from the Clinton approach, which is now viewed as having failed to adequately address critics. 
 Mr. Obama will take the lead this week as he continues a series of public meetings to counter the opposition, events White House officials hope will offer a high-profile opportunity to confront and rebut critics. 
 As part of the effort, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the House majority leader, wrote an opinion article in USA Today on Monday calling conservative protests at Congressional town-hall-style meetings ''un-American'' for ''drowning out opposing views.'' (That prompted a swift rebuke from the House minority leader, Representative John A. Boehner, among other Republicans.) 
 New television commercials disputing the conservative attacks are in the works, Mr. Woodhouse said, and allied members of Congress have been sent home for the August break with a set of poll-tested talking points intended to shift the focus to the administration's advertised benefits of the plan from the scary situations opponents have laid out.
 ''There's a whole set of rumors that the old playbook would tell you not to do anything about because you draw attention,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House deputy communications director. ''The lesson we've learned is you ignore these rumors at your peril, and the right answer is to take them head on in as big a way as possible.''
 It was only weeks ago that Mr. Obama was pressing both the House and the Senate to complete work on their versions of health legislation before recessing for the summer, a goal that went unmet as divisions erupted among Democrats as well as between the two parties. 
 After getting much of what he wanted on high-risk initiatives like the economic stimulus package and bailouts of banks and auto companies, Mr. Obama had yet to face the full force of conservative opposition to his policies. Some supporters now wonder whether his earlier glide path left him unprepared for the sudden surge of opposition from conservative groups, which have found a rallying point on health care.
 ''The expectation was that things have gotten so bad in the last 16 years that there would be consensus on the need to act this time,'' said Howard Paster, who was Mr. Clinton's chief lobbyist in 1993. ''That was a mistake, that assumption.''
 Mr. Obama's team won early, high marks for diverging from the Clinton approach, specifically by emphasizing the need to control costs and improve coverage for those who are already insured instead of making the same moral-duty argument Mr. Clinton had about the need to cover the uninsured.
 Yet once Congress started filling in the details this summer and its analysts began pricing the House and Senate packages, the estimates of the government's cost caused sticker shock again. 
 And once again that drew taxpayers' attention to the main reason for those costs: covering the uninsured, through more Medicaid spending and subsidies for people to buy insurance and small businesses to provide it.
 That helped conservatives who had been struggling to gain traction on health care to speak to a constituency that has managed to gain significant anti-Obama attention this year, the fiscally hawkish ''tea party'' activists opposed to the president's spending. They have dismissed Mr. Obama's promises that his plan will be fully paid for through offsetting spending cuts or increased taxes, and have cast the plan as a costly takeover of health care by the government.
 ''I think the combination of spending a trillion dollars that we don't have and another rushed process really triggered this,'' said Matt Kibbe, the president of the conservative group FreedomWorks. ''People started paying attention.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The White House, pushed into playing defense, has started a Web site, left, as part of its effort to counter information distributed by conservative groups on sites like FreedomWorks, right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WEB SITES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMWORKS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



294 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Comic Strips on N.F.L. and Race: Fair Game or Out of Bounds?

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The creators of ''Tank McNamara,'' a comic strip about a local TV sports anchor, are spending this week analyzing ''the making of the Mike Vick decision'' and skewering the National Football League. 
 The six strips -- which The Washington Post deemed ''inappropriate'' and has chosen not to run -- portray N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell as torn about how to handle Vick and two other African-American players in legal trouble, receiver Donte' Stallworth of the Cleveland Browns and Plaxico Burress, the former Giant. 
 Goodell, as rendered by Jeff Millar and Bill Hinds, is seen receiving advice by telephone. 
 In Monday's strip, former Vice President Dick Cheney suggests: ''Kill him.'' 
 During Wednesday's strip, the cartoon Goodell is told by a caller that the owners ''have to prove they aren't racists by hiring Mike.'' But he says that they have ''made it clear'' to him that his job is to be a racist for them.
 In Thursday's strip, ''Goodell'' says, ''If all I punish are black guys, then yeah, people might think I'm a racist. But I'm not a racist. That hurts my heart. Look, I'm an autocrat, that's all. I'll punish anyone and like it.'' 
 And on Saturday, ''Goodell'' thinks: ''These decisions could be so much easier if I could suspend a marquee white player too,'' like Tom Brady and Eli or Peyton Manning. To a picture of Peyton Manning, ''Goodell'' asks, ''Why can't you walk into a club with a concealed weapon and shoot yourself under your Dockers?''
 These panels of ''Tank'' will be incendiary to some and provocative satire to others, arriving in a medium that does not have a lot to do with sports. This week of ''Tank'' comes soon after another major story about race, the arrest of the Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr., who is black, by a white Cambridge, Mass., policeman, in Gates's home. To Millar, the league and the Vick-Stallworth-Burress stories are fair game.
 ''By the end of the week, having completed the arc, I think it's fair criticism,'' he said. ''If The Post is balancing their decision on the Cheney gag, I could say, there's another one tomorrow and another one tomorrow.'' 
 A spokeswoman for The Post chose not to elaborate on the paper's decision. The N.F.L. offered a restrained reaction. Joe Browne, the league's executive vice president of communications and public affairs, said in a statement: ''By nature, cartoonists, like newspaper columnists, present -- and are entitled to -- their opinion even if it is not a balanced one.''
 The strips, handed in about 10 days ago, are a little late on Goodell's action on Vick, who was conditionally reinstated last month. Stallworth, who killed a man while driving drunk, and served 24 days in jail, awaits the human Goodell's judgment (while under indefinite suspension). Burress, who has been indicted on weapons charges for shooting himself in the thigh in a Manhattan club, also awaits Goodell's ruling.
 Greg Melvin, Millar and Hinds's editor at the Universal Press Syndicate, said The Post was the only one of 100 papers that he knew of to have substituted this week's ''Tank'' with reruns of the strip. He did not anticipate trouble from clients when he read the sextet.
 ''I was the editor of 'The Boondocks,' so I've seen controversial things in our strips,'' he said of the defunct, satiric comic strip about two African-American children who leave their Chicago ghetto for the suburbs to live with their grandfather that generated regular cancellations. 
 TAKING OVER FOR BUICK Buick's departure as a PGA Tour sponsor, announced last week, looked like another sign of weakness in the sports economy. But the Buick Open's former slot on the schedule was filled quickly by Jim Justice, who wants to use the tournament, now the Greenbrier Classic, to help revive the venerable Greenbrier Resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., which he acquired in May. 
 ''We had to lift the cloud and inject some energy,'' he said on Monday. ''The PGA Tour was a natural for us; the Greenbrier has a phenomenal golf history, and it will be really appealing to the players and their kids.'' He added: ''Without the economy stumbling, I probably wouldn't have had this chance.''
 He said his goal was to retain 1,600 jobs at the Greenbrier, in an economically depressed area, and expects the tournament to help. But he said he did not study the effects of PGA Tour sponsorship on other corporate sponsors before making the deal. 
 ''There's just no model like the Greenbrier,'' he said. ''To bring a PGA event to Greenbrier, with this community dying, you can't compare it. I'm convinced the tournament will be attended by tens of thousands of people and have a profound impact on West Virginia.''

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: Some of the strips that The Washington Post chose not to run. (CARTOON BY JEFF MILLAR AND BILL HINDS/UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



295 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Judge Attacks Merrill Pre-Merger Bonuses

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Reigniting a major controversy over Wall Street pay, a federal judge on Monday sharply criticized the bonuses that Merrill Lynch hurriedly paid out before it was acquired by Bank of America last year and pointedly questioned a federal settlement that had seemed to put the issue to rest. 
 A week after the Securities and Exchange Commission announced that it had settled the matter, Judge Jed S. Rakoff questioned whether the $33 million agreement with Bank of America was adequate. He refused to approve the deal, saying too many questions remained unanswered, including who knew what and when about the controversial payouts. 
 His ruling prolongs what has become a major embarrassment for Bank of America and its chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, and also deals a stinging blow to the S.E.C., which needs Judge Rakoff's approval of its deal with the bank.
 Judge Rakoff ordered the bank and the commission to submit more information to him within two weeks. 
 During a hearing in New York that was heated at times, the judge was scathing about the settlement, in which the S.E.C. accused Bank of America of misleading its shareholders. Bank of America neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. 
 Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, Judge Rakoff said, ''effectively lied to their shareholders.'' The $3.6 billion in bonuses paid by Merrill as the ailing brokerage giant was taken over by the bank was effectively ''from Uncle Sam.''
 The Merrill bonuses, which were the subject of a state investigation and prompted an outcry in Congress, were paid even though Merrill Lynch lost $27 billion last year. Its deepening red ink later forced Bank of America to seek a second taxpayer-financed bailout 
 ''Do Wall Street people expect to be paid large bonuses in years when their company lost $27 billion?'' the judge asked. 
 Judge Rakoff, who took an active role in the S.E.C.'s case against WorldCom, is yet another voice in a growing chorus of critics of the Bank of America-Merrill deal, which was forged in the heat of the financial crisis last fall. Both the S.E.C. and Bank of America defended the settlement. The bank's fine, however, represented a small fraction of the bonuses paid out by Merrill Lynch, a fact the judge and other critics seized on. In fact, at least one individual at Merrill Lynch collected a bonus totaling more than that amount. 
 The judge characterized the $33 million fine as ''strangely askew'' given the accusations made, the magnitude of Merrill's losses and the subsequent bailout for Bank of America. The judge questioned the role of top executives at the companies, in particular Mr. Lewis and John A. Thain, the former chief executive of Merrill Lynch, both of whom signed off on a proxy statement to investors. 
 ''Was there some sort of ghost that performed those actions?'' Judge Rakoff said.
 The S.E.C.'s complaint focused on a document that detailed the bonuses, but which was not included in the merger agreement or proxy statement that was sent to the companies' shareholders, who voted to approve the merger on Dec. 5.
 The S.E.C.'s lawyer, David Rosenfeld, said repeatedly during the hearing Monday that the agency had chosen not to make allegations against individuals in the case. 
 Mr. Rosenfeld spoke softly and was called up to the microphone after Judge Rakoff criticized the S.E.C. for the evidence it had presented -- or failed to. The judge said the commission was remiss for not determining who at the companies decided not to disclose the bonus agreement. And he suggested that they should have interviewed the external lawyers for both companies.
 ''You filed a rather uninformative, bare-bones complaint,'' Judge Rakoff said.
 Lewis J. Liman, a lawyer representing Bank of America, told the judge, when prodded, that the bank believed it had not wronged its shareholders. Mr. Liman, son of Arthur L. Liman, the lawyer who led the Iran-contra investigation in the Senate, seemed at times dismissive, saying at one point: ''My God! Bonuses on Wall Street? It is not a matter of surprise.''
 Merrill had little choice but to pay many of the bonuses, Mr. Liman said. Of the $3.6 billion, Merrill had committed $850 million in the form of guaranteed bonuses. Mr. Liman said the rest of the money was shared among 39,000 workers who received average payments of $91,000 -- though he did not mention that there were 696 people at Merrill who made more than $1 million in bonuses.
 ''I'm glad you think that $91,000 is not a lot of money,'' the judge said. ''I wish the average American was making $91,000.''
 Mr. Liman agreed that $91,000 was quite a lot. 
 Judge Rakoff said he might hold another hearing to consider evidence of whether the bonuses were needed. He said he might want to know if Merrill's management studied how many of the roughly 39,000 bonus recipients would have left had they not received their payouts. 
 Mr. Liman said the bank could prove in litigation that there were a number of companies that might have hired Merrill's employees.
 Mr. Rosenfeld of the S.E.C. said he had based the fine in part on a case the agency filed against Wachovia over disclosure issues in 2001. That case involved disclosure of a stock buyback program that cost $500 million. 
 The lawyer for Bank of America periodically whispered what appeared to be suggestions to Mr. Rosenfeld. One point that Mr. Liman emphasized was that the $3.6 billion was paid with funds other than the federal bailout money, and he said that if the bonuses were a problem simply because of the bank received aid, other banks that had received bailouts might face similar allegations. 
 The judge was unmoved. ''Money is money, the last time I checked,'' Judge Rakoff responded.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judge Jed Rakoff withheld approval of the S.E.C.-Bank of America deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Kenneth Lewis, chief of Bank of America, foreground, and John Thain, former head of Merrill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (79%); JOHN THAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



296 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Immigration Changes Remain on His Agenda, but for 2010 Enactment

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and MARC LACEY

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico 

 BODY:
Flanked by his counterparts from Mexico and Canada, President Obama on Monday reiterated his commitment to pursuing comprehensive immigration reform, despite his packed political agenda and the staunch opposition such an initiative is likely to face. 
 Mr. Obama predicted that he would be successful but acknowledged the challenges, saying, ''I've got a lot on my plate.'' He added that there would almost certainly be ''demagogues out there who try to suggest that any form or pathway for legalization for those who are already in the United States is unacceptable.'' 
 But in the most detailed outline yet of his timetable, the president said that he expected Congress, after completing work on health care, energy and financial regulation, to draft immigration bills this year. He said he would begin work on getting the measures passed in 2010. 
 ''Now, am I going to be able to snap my fingers and get this done? No,'' the president said. ''But ultimately, I think the American people want fairness. And we can create a system in which you have strong border security and an orderly process for people to come in. But we're also giving an opportunity for those who are already in the United States to be able to achieve a pathway to citizenship so they don't have to live in the shadows.''
 The president's comments came during a news conference at the end of a summit meeting of North American leaders aimed at increasing cooperation in the region and resolving some of the issues that have long strained trilateral relations among the countries, whose people and economies depend heavily on one another. 
 During the meetings, which began Sunday afternoon, Mr. Obama, President Felipe Calderon of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada discussed climate change and clean energy, swine flu, immigration, trade and organized crime. While it was clear at the news conference that the three leaders had not reached any significant new agreements, they expressed understanding for one another's positions and vowed to keep working to resolve outstanding disputes.
 Mr. Harper, for example, stood by a decision a month ago to require Mexicans to apply for visas but said that the problems were Canada's, not Mexico's. ''It is simply far too easy to make a bogus refugee claim as a way of entering the country,'' he said. ''And we have to change that.''
 A ''Buy American'' provision attached to the United States stimulus package has ignited a political storm in Canada. But on Monday, Mr. Obama played down the scope of the program, saying it was something he had grudgingly accepted to achieve the greater purpose of pumping money into America's flailing economy. 
 ''I think it's important to keep this in perspective,'' Mr. Obama said. ''This in no way has endangered the billions of dollars in trade taking place between our two countries.''
 Mr. Obama offered a spirited defense of Mr. Calderon's efforts to rein in the drug cartels, a fight that has left nearly 4,200 people dead this year. Recently, Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, raised concerns about human rights abuses in the drug war, and Democratic legislators have threatened to withhold some financial support. 
 At the news conference, Mr. Obama said unequivocally that he would push for continuing America's support for the Mexican effort, adding, ''The biggest, by far, violators of human rights right now are the cartels themselves that are kidnapping people, extorting people and encouraging corruption.'' 
 Mr. Calderon issued his own passionate defense, saying, ''The struggle, the battle, the fight against organized crime is precisely to preserve the human rights of Mexican people.'' 
 The Mexican Supreme Court supported the army on Monday by declining to take up a case pushed by human rights advocates that challenged the use of military prosecutors, instead of civilian ones, in pursuing charges against rogue soldiers.
 If there were divisions on other issues, all three leaders seemed united in their support for Manuel Zelaya, the Honduran president who was ousted June 28 in what countries around the world have condemned as a coup. 
 ''Let me be very clear in our belief that President Zelaya was removed from office illegally, that it was a coup and that he should return,'' Mr. Obama said. He dismissed as ''hypocrisy'' the criticism from some in Latin America who say the United States has done too little to pressure Honduras's de facto government to return Mr. Zelaya to power -- among them Mr. Zelaya himself.
 ''The critics who say that the United States has not intervened enough in Honduras,'' he said, ''are the same people who say that we're always intervening, and that the Yankees need to get out of Latin America.''
 Because of Mr. Zelaya's ouster, the United States has supported suspending Honduras from the Organization of American States and has cut $16.5 million in military assistance. The United States, which is Honduras's largest trading partner, has been reluctant, however, to call for tougher economic sanctions. 
 Critics of Washington's approach, led by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, accuse the United States of placating the small group of Honduran elite who are among those who support Mr. Zelaya's removal. Senior administration officials have said they were concerned about destabilizing the third-poorest country in the hemisphere. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (69%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); STEPHEN HARPER (58%); FELIPE CALDERON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



297 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: More Than Missiles

 BODY:
With the apparent killing of the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud by an American drone, President Obama seems to be having some success with his military policy for Pakistan. He is having less luck in Washington. 
 Congress left town for its summer recess without passing a long-promised bill to triple American economic and development assistance to Pakistan -- the centerpiece of Mr. Obama's plan to win the hearts and minds of the Pakistani people. 
 The drone strike came after months of improved cooperation between American and Pakistani intelligence officials. Mr. Mehsud and his network have orchestrated a bloody reign of terror across Pakistan and are blamed for the 2007 assassination of Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister, and last year's bombing of the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, which left more than 50 people dead. Permanently removing him from the picture would be an obvious victory. 
 However, force alone will not be enough to defeat the extremists. During the 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama rightly criticized the Bush administration for overinvesting in Pakistan's army while doing far too little to help build up its civil society -- the schools, courts, hospitals and roads that are essential to stability. Mr. Obama pledged to support legislation -- which was initially sponsored by then-Senator Joseph Biden and Senator Richard Lugar -- that would provide Pakistan with $7.5 billion in development assistance over five years.
 The aid -- and particularly its pledge of five years of uninterrupted help -- is intended to demonstrate that this time Washington is in for the long haul. Many Pakistanis still accuse the Americans of using and then abandoning them after the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan. We fear that any more delay on the promised assistance would only reinforce that suspicion and bitterness.
 The House and Senate did manage to pass bills authorizing the aid, but with significant differences. 
 Both versions contained sound conditions and benchmarks to try to measure the effectiveness of the help. But the House added a variety of other provisions, including earmarks for military projects that favored American contractors and bullying language on Pakistan's nuclear program that would inevitably increase tensions with Islamabad and alienate the Pakistani public. We, too, are very concerned about Pakistan's history of nuclear proliferation. But this aid bill is clearly not the vehicle. 
 Inexplicably, the White House, which insists that bringing stability to Afghanistan and Pakistan is a top national security priority, did not press the leadership to finish the legislation. By the time negotiators managed to find a compromise, it was too late for a vote.
 When Congress returns in September, lawmakers and the White House must make passing the aid bill a top priority. Congress must also pass long-stalled legislation to establish special trade preference zones in parts of Pakistan to help create jobs.
 As President Obama said when he endorsed the aid bill, ''Al Qaeda offers the people of Pakistan nothing but destruction. We stand for something different.'' It is time to show the Pakistani people that the United States has more to offer than missile strikes and empty promises. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BAITULLAH MEHSUD (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



298 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: A Scary Reality

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
Last week was a pretty good one for President Obama. Bill Clinton helped out big time when he returned from North Korea with the American journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee. Sonia Sotomayor was elevated to the Supreme Court. And Friday's unemployment report registered a tiny downward tick in the jobless rate.
 But for American workers peering anxiously through their family portholes, the economic ship is still sinking. You can put whatever kind of gloss you want on last week's jobs numbers, but the truth is that while they may have been a bit better than most economists were expecting, they were still bad, bad, bad. 
 Some 247,000 jobs were lost in July, a number that under ordinary circumstances would send a shudder through the country. It was the smallest monthly loss of jobs since last summer. And for that reason, it was seen as a hopeful sign. The official monthly unemployment rate ticked down from 9.5 percent to 9.4 percent.
 But behind the official numbers is a scary story that illustrates the single biggest challenge facing the United States today. The American economy does not seem able to provide enough jobs -- and nowhere near enough good jobs -- to maintain the standard of living that most Americans have come to expect. 
 The country has lost a crippling 6.7 million jobs since the Great Recession began in December 2007. No one is predicting a recovery in the foreseeable future powerful enough to replace the millions of jobs that have vanished in this historic downturn.
 Analysts at the Economic Policy Institute noted that the economy has fewer jobs now than it had in 2000, ''even though the labor force has grown by around 12 million workers since then.''
 Two issues that absolutely undermine any rosy assessment of last week's employment report are the swelling ranks of the long-term unemployed and the crushing levels of joblessness among young Americans. More than five million workers -- about a third of the unemployed -- have been jobless for more than six months. That's the highest number recorded since accurate records have been kept.
 For those concerned with the economic viability of the American family going forward, the plight of young workers, especially young men, is particularly frightening. The percentage of young American men who are actually working is the lowest it has been in the 61 years of record-keeping, according to the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston.
 Only 65 of every 100 men aged 20 through 24 years old were working on any given day in the first six months of this year. In the age group 25 through 34 years old, traditionally a prime age range for getting married and starting a family, just 81 of 100 men were employed.
 For male teenagers, the numbers were disastrous: only 28 of every 100 males were employed in the 16- through 19-year-old age group. For minority teenagers, forget about it. The numbers are beyond scary; they're catastrophic.
 This should be the biggest story in the United States. When joblessness reaches these kinds of extremes, it doesn't just damage individual families; it corrodes entire communities, fosters a sense of hopelessness and leads to disorder.
 The unemployment that has wrought such devastation in black communities for decades is now being experienced by a much wider swath of the population. We've been in deep denial about this. Way back in March 2007, when the official unemployment rate was a wildly deceptive 4.5 percent and the Bush crowd was crowing about the alleged strength of the economy, I wrote:
 ''People can howl all they want about how well the economy is doing. The simple truth is that millions of ordinary American workers are in an employment bind. Steady jobs with good benefits are going the way of Ozzie and Harriet. Young workers, especially, are hurting, which diminishes the prospects for the American family. And blacks, particularly black males, are in a deep danger zone.''
 The official jobless rate is now more than twice as high -- 9.4 percent -- and even more wildly deceptive. It ticked down by 0.1 percent last month not because more people found jobs, but because 450,000 people withdrew from the labor market. They stopped looking, so they weren't counted as unemployed.
 A truer picture of the employment crisis emerges when you combine the number of people who are officially counted as jobless with those who are working part time because they can't find full-time work and those in the so-called labor market reserve -- people who are not actively looking for work (because they have become discouraged, for example) but would take a job if one became available. 
 The tally from those three categories is a mind-boggling 30 million Americans -- 19 percent of the overall work force.
 This is, by far, the nation's biggest problem and should be its No. 1 priority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MEN (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



299 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Horse Race, The 2008 Version

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE BATTLE FOR AMERICA 2008 
 The Story of an Extraordinary Election
 By Dan Balz and Haynes Johnson 
 415 pages. Viking. $29.95. 
 Nine months after the presidential election of 2008, is there anything new or revealing to say about that momentous event? Can a post-mortem on the marathon campaign preceding that vote shed any new light on the participants or the process?
 Given the voluminous coverage of that race, it might seem as if the obvious answer to these questions were no. But ''The Battle for America 2008,'' a new book by Dan Balz, the lead political reporter for The Washington Post, and his former Post colleague Haynes Johnson, actually makes for engaging reading -- for both politics addicts interested in small new details and the more casual reader interested in a broad, savvy overview of the run-up to a historic election. 
 Yes, many of the authors' observations -- about subjects as diverse as voters' disillusion with George W. Bush and the politics of the primary calendar -- have been made many times before. Yes, many of their accounts of the ups and downs of the campaign -- Barack Obama's surge in Iowa; Hillary Rodham Clinton's comeback in New Hampshire; the long, hard slog through states like South Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania -- are very, very familiar. And yes, their discussions of the issues at stake in campaign 2008, including racial politics, the Iraq war and a dangerously faltering economy, retrace well-trodden ground.
 But if the authors fail to reframe the election in any significant new way, their retrospective does prove useful in reminding us -- 200-plus days into the Obama presidency, as reporters point to declining approval numbers and stubborn obstacles to overhauling health care -- of the daunting odds that Mr. Obama overcame to win the White House in the first place.
 The authors quote Mr. Obama, then the junior senator from Illinois, as saying that he started out in 2006 giving himself ''25 percent odds, you know, maybe 30'' of winning it all, and the first glimpse they give us of the candidate is a snapshot of an underdog, still very much in the shadow of the front-runner, Mrs. Clinton. He is sitting aboard his modest six-seat chartered airplane on March 4, 2007, waiting to take off from Selma, Ala., after participating in ceremonies commemorating the 42nd anniversary of the voting rights march there. 
 As Mr. Obama's plane waits, Mr. Balz and Mr. Johnson write, ''two motorcades of black S.U.V.'s roll onto the tarmac'' and stop by ''two large, sleek Gulfstream jets.'' Bill Clinton, accompanied by his Secret Service detail and his aides, gets into one and promptly takes off, while Mrs. Clinton and her entourage pile into the second jet. 
 Mr. Obama's plane is scheduled to depart next, but the engine won't start: ''The battery is dead. Don't worry, the pilot tells Obama, airport crews are searching for a long extension cord. They'll plug it into a generator in the lobby and run it from the terminal back to the plane to jump-start the engine. Still, the plane won't start. While Obama and his aides are cramped inside the plane, sweltering in a cabin without air-conditioning, they watch as Hillary's Gulfstream takes off. Bemused, Obama tells his young aides, 'I guess this really is a grass-roots campaign.' '' 
 The authors of ''The Battle for America'' remind us that ''for much of 2007, it looked as if Hillary Clinton would win it all,'' that her advisers tried to promote an image of strength and inevitability because they ''paid lip service to the fact that voters wanted change'' but were ''more concerned about voter resistance to electing the first woman president.'' 
 Promoting Mrs. Clinton as a candidate of experience in a change election was only one of her advisers' many miscalculations, along with the early squandering of money, the failure to get an efficient Iowa operation up and running early in the game and an inability or unwillingness to mount a credible fight for the caucus states in February. 
 As Mr. Balz and Mr. Johnson see it, Bill Clinton also played a substantial role in derailing Mrs. Clinton's campaign. They argue that his vociferous attacks on Mr. Obama in South Carolina ignited talk of racial politics, ''damaged his wife's candidacy'' and not only cost her heavily in that state but also ''redrew the landscape heading into Super Tuesday.'' 
 ''It seemed for a time,'' the authors write, ''that his once certain political touch and instincts eluded him and the rest of the Clinton campaign.'' In addition, they detail a series of phone calls between Mr. Clinton and Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts in which, they say, the former president tried to win an endorsement for his wife but seemed to further alienate Mr. Kennedy -- who, they report, was concerned that ''the campaign was sliding into divisiveness, and held the Clintons principally responsible.'' 
 The vicious infighting and bureaucratic gridlock of the Clinton campaign have already been chronicled at length by other reporters -- most notably, in articles by Joshua Green in The Atlantic and Gail Sheehy in Vanity Fair -- but Mr. Johnson and Mr. Balz do a nimble job here of contrasting its often spectacular dysfunction with the agility and enthusiastic innovation of the Obama campaign. 
 Senator John McCain's campaign also emerges in these pages as being ''under severe stress internally,'' suffering from early fund-raising problems and a bitter culture clash between McCain 2000 and Bush 2004 staff members. 
 In the course of this book the authors reveal that David Plouffe, who oversaw the blueprint for Mr. Obama's winning Iowa strategy and who helped construct a game plan based around the building of a new electorate, told Mr. Obama in April 2008 that ''he wanted to step down after the primaries'': he was, the authors say, ''worn out, having managed the campaign from the first day and on through the most rigorous nomination battle ever,'' and his wife was ''due to deliver their second child days before the election.'' 
 Mr. Balz and Mr. Johnson report that Mr. Obama ''implored him to stay'' and that Mr. Plouffe eventually decided he couldn't leave because the campaign, after the long primary battle, was behind schedule in both the vice-presidential selection process and convention planning. 
 Given the outcome of the Democratic nomination battle and the general election, this book's descriptions of each campaign's initial strategies are illuminating. Perhaps fatefully, Mr. McCain -- who had been savaged by the Bush machine in 2000 and who would suffer in 2008 from being linked to the unpopular president -- would end up authorizing ''a campaign apparatus patterned after Bush's 2004 re-election committee, a huge operation that was in sharp contrast to the lean campaign he ran in 2000'' and that was ill suited to his temperament and strengths as a candidate.
 Whereas some of Mrs. Clinton's advisers, the authors say, wanted to reintroduce her and refute some voters' impression of her as chilly and distant, the strategist Mark Penn -- who comes across in this volume as a pugnacious and highly divisive figure -- argued that ''former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher should be Hillary's role model.'' An 11-page memorandum he sent her shortly before Christmas 2006 played down the threat posed by Mr. Obama, while indulging in what the authors call ''pure flattery'' of his client. 
 ''We have incredible image strengths,'' the memo boasted, adding that ''people don't just like Hillary Clinton, they love her.'' 
 In contrast, Mr. Balz and Mr. Johnson observe, a November 2006 memo sent to Mr. Obama by his chief adviser, David Axelrod, ''was notable for its unsparing critique of his client.'' 
 Mr. Axelrod warned Mr. Obama that if he decided to run for president, he would have to address his own ''willingness and ability to put up with something'' he had ''never experienced on a sustained basis: criticism.'' The memo went on: ''I don't know if you are Muhammad Ali or Floyd Patterson when it comes to taking a punch. You care far too much what is written and said about you. You don't relish combat when it becomes personal and nasty.'' 
 The Axelrod memo also pointed out that an outgoing president nearly always defines the next election, that people rarely seek someone in the mold of the outgoing executive (certainly not after the presidency of George W. Bush) and that in 2008 voters were going to be looking for an alternative to the qualities of stubbornness, hyper-partisanship and ideological certainty that Democrats, independents and disaffected Republicans associated with Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. Axelrod went on to argue, presciently it turned out, that Mr. Obama's profile -- his embodiment of change, along with his eagerness to challenge old dogmas of right and left -- fit this historical moment better than Mrs. Clinton's and that if he were right, Mr. Obama could catalyze a political movement and prevail against substantial odds. 
 ''You will never be hotter than you are right now,'' the memo concluded, adding that ''there are many reasons to believe that if you are ever to run for the presidency, this is the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
Dan Balz (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL O'LEARY)
 Haynes Johnson (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEVERLY REZNECK)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Battle for America 2008, The (Book); Battle for America 2008, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



300 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Earth Is Warming? Adjust the Thermostat

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
President Obama and the rest of the Group of 8 leaders decreed last month that the planet's average temperature shall not rise more than 2 degrees Fahrenheit above today's level. But what if Mother Earth didn't get the memo? How do we stay cool in the future? Two options: 
 Plan A. Keep talking about the weather. This has been the preferred approach for the past two decades in Western Europe, where leaders like to promise one another that they will keep the globe cool by drastically reducing carbon emissions. Then, when their countries' emissions keep rising anyway, they convene to make new promises and swear that they really, really mean it this time. 
 Plan B. Do something about the weather. Originally called geoengineering, this approach used to be dismissed as science fiction fantasies: cooling the planet with sun-blocking particles or shades; tinkering with clouds to make them more reflective; removing vast quantities of carbon from the atmosphere.
 Today this approach goes by the slightly less grandiose name of climate engineering, and it is looking more practical. Several recent reviews of these ideas conclude that cooling the planet would be technically feasible and economically affordable.
 There are still plenty of skeptics, but even they have started calling for more research into climate engineering. The skeptics understandably fear the unintended consequences of tampering with the planet's thermostat, but they also fear the possibility -- which I'd call a near certainty -- that political leaders will not seriously reduce carbon emissions anytime soon. 
 The National Academy of Sciences and Britain's Royal Society are preparing reports on climate engineering, and the Obama administration has promised to consider it. But so far there has been virtually no government support for research and development -- certainly nothing like the tens of billions of dollars allotted to green energy and other programs whose effects on the climate would not be felt for decades. 
 For perhaps $100 million, climate engineers could begin field tests within five years, says Ken Caldeira of the Carnegie Institution for Science. Dr. Caldeira is a member of a climate-engineering study group that met last year at the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics under the leadership of Steven E. Koonin, who has since become the under secretary for science at the United States Department of Energy. The group has just issued a report, published by the Novim research organization, analyzing the use of aerosol particles to reflect shortwave solar radiation back into space. 
 These particles could be lofted into the stratosphere to reproduce the effects of sulfate aerosols from volcanic eruptions like that of Mount Pinatubo in 1991, which was followed by a global cooling of nearly 1 degree Fahrenheit. Just as occurred after that eruption, the effects would wane as the particles fell back to Earth. Keeping the planet cooled steadily (at least until carbon emissions declined) might cost $30 billion per year if the particles were fired from military artillery, or $8 billion annually if delivered by aircraft, according to the Novim report.
 The idea of even testing such a system scares many people, and some scientists argue that climate-engineering research should remain theoretical. But Dr. Caldeira says that small-scale testing -- perhaps an experiment intended to slightly cool the Arctic -- could be safer than the alternative.
 ''The worst-case scenario,'' he says, ''is one in which you have an untested system that you need to deploy quickly at large scale in a desperate attempt to ward off some sort of climate crisis. It could be much better to start testing soon at small scale and to observe what happens as the system is deployed.'' The sooner we start, he reasons, the more delicately we can proceed. 
 ''Because of natural variability in weather and climate, the smaller the experiment, the longer it needs to be observed for the signal to rise out of the noise,'' Dr. Caldeira says. ''With short testing periods, you would need to hit the system with a hammer.''
 Another way to cool the globe would be to spray seawater mist from ships up toward low-lying clouds, which would become brighter and reflect more sunlight away from Earth. (For details, see nytimes.com/tierneylab.) 
 This cloud-brightening technology might counteract a century's worth of global warming for $9 billion, according to J. Eric Bickel and Lee Lane. They identified it as the most promising form of climate engineering in a report published Friday by the Copenhagen Consensus Center, which is sponsoring cost-benefit analyses of strategies for dealing with climate change. 
 Other researchers say that it is impossible to do a cost-benefit analysis of these engineering proposals because the potential downside is so uncertain -- and large. Injecting aerosols into the stratosphere or brightening clouds would do more than just cool the planet. In a paper in the current Science, Gabriele C. Hegerl and Susan Solomon point to a drop in global precipitation after the eruption of Mount Pinatubo, and warn that climate engineering could lead to dangerous droughts.
 A less risky form of climate engineering would be to gradually remove enough carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to keep the planet cool. Some experts argue that the technology already exists to make this ''air-capture'' method reasonably economical, and that its political advantages make it the most realistic long-term strategy. What politician wants to tamper directly with the climate and risk getting blamed for the next hurricane or drought?
 But if the climate does become dangerously warm, there could be enormous political pressure to do something quickly. And while it wouldn't be easy reaching international agreement on how to reset the planet's thermostat, in some ways it is less daunting than trying to negotiate a global carbon treaty. 
 If rich European countries with strong green constituencies cannot live up to their own promises to cut carbon, how much hope is there of permanently enforcing tough restrictions in the United States, much less in poor countries like India and China? If even a few nations demur or cheat, the whole system can break down. 
 By contrast, climate engineering does not require unanimous agreement or steadfast enforcement throughout the world. Instead of relying on politicians' promises, we might find it simpler to deal directly with Mother Earth's hot air. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); THERMAL SENSORS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); PHYSICS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (65%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (62%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%) EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



301 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IRAN'S RIGHT DEMANDS A SAY
 In Cabinet Appointments
 About 200 conservative Iranian lawmakers signed a letter calling on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to consult them about cabinet appointments, the latest sign of a struggle among hard-liners that may limit the president's political clout as he moves to form a new government in the coming week. PAGE A4
 DEFENDING BRITISH AGENCY 
 John Scarlett, the head of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service, has joined other senior British government officials in the defense of Britain's counterterrorism policies, rejecting accusations that his agency has colluded in the torture of terrorism suspects being interrogated abroad. PAGE A4
 FATAH'S BALANCING ACT
 Hoping to satisfy as wide a constituency as possible, the Palestinian delegates to the Fatah conference in the West Bank have tried to broadcast a message both peaceful and militant. PAGE A6
 National
 SHIFTING DEMOGRAPHICS
 For Country's Nuns
 A new study of Roman Catholic nuns and priests in the United States shows that an aging, predominantly white generation is dying out. It is being replaced by a smaller group of more racially diverse recruits who are attracted to the religious orders that practice traditional prayer rituals and wear habits. PAGE A12
 SPANKING IN SCHOOLS
 More than 200,000 schoolchildren are paddled, spanked or subjected to other physical punishment each year, and disabled students receive a disproportionate share of the harsh treatment, according to a new study. PAGE A10
 New York
 DEMOCRATS WORRY GOVERNOR
 Could Be a Drag on Ballot
 Incumbent New York Democrats are concerned that their election chances will be undermined if their names appear on the same ballot as Gov. David A. Paterson, who has been hobbled by plunging job-approval ratings and missteps that have raised questions about whether he should even run next year. PAGE A14
 Business
 A SUIT MAKER ADAPTS
 To the Financial Crisis
 Brioni, the maker of high-end Italian suits, is wading into more casual offerings like T-shirts this fall. It is a sign of how both the financial crisis and changing consumer habits are forcing even the most conservative, family-owned luxury goods makers to adapt to a new world. PAGE B1
 CREDIT CARDS AND LIMIT FEES
 The noxious penalty levied on American Express and Discover consumers who exceeded their spending limit has died, quashed by legislation signed by President Obama. But other card companies say they have not followed suit. So is the obituary of the spending limit fee premature? PAGE B1
 CHINA, LAND OF OPPORTUNITY
 American college graduates who face unemployment nearing double digits at home are heading to Shanghai and Beijing, which they see as new lands of opportunity. PAGE B1
 BLOGS AND ADVERTISERS
 The National Advertising Review Council plans to announce its recommendations for clear disclosure when a company is sponsoring a site or paying for product reviews -- part of a sharper focus on the relationships between bloggers and advertisers. Stephanie Clifford, Advertising. PAGE B3
 Lego Nixes 'Spinal Tap' Video B3 Tough Times for Photojournalists B3
 Sports
 DIVING POWERHOUSE SPRINGS
 From Georgia's Sandy Soil
 The Moss Farms Diving Tigers of Moultrie, Ga., are perhaps the country's most improbable diving powerhouse. Virtually every Moss Farms product has been offered a Division I scholarship, and the program's coaches are often as sought-after as the divers. PAGE B9
 A PIONEER ON THE COURT
 In the 1940s, Wat Misaka became the first draft choice of the Knicks for their very first season. And though he lasted just three games, he is remembered as the first non-Caucasian player in modern pro basketball. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE B9
 Nadal's Returns Is Big Draw B11
 Arts
 REVISITING THE HORSE RACE
 For the White House
 ''The Battle for America 2008,'' a new book that is a postmortem on the marathon presidential election last year, retraces a lot of familiar territory, but the retrospective does prove useful in reminding readers of the daunting odds that Barack Obama overcame to win the White House in the first place. Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1 
 KNOTTED FAMILY BONDS
 Rachel Saltz writes that ''After Luke'' and ''When I Was God,'' two one-acts showing at the Irish Repertory Theater, are a pitch-perfect look at the relationships between fathers and sons. PAGE C3
 Obituaries
 MARCEY JACOBSON, 97
 A self-taught photographer from New York City, she spent decades in the southern Mexican highlands documenting the lives of the indigenous Indian peoples. PAGE A19
 Science Times
 ADJUSTING THE THERMOSTAT 
 To Halt Climate Change
 Once mainly dismissed as science fiction fantasies , climate engineering -- cooling the planet with sun-blocking particles or shades or tinkering with clouds to make them more reflective or removing vast quantities of carbon from the atmosphere -- is looking more practical. John Tierney, Findings. PAGE D1
 THE SMELL'S IN HER HEAD
 Phantosmia, or an illusory sense of smell, can mean being constantly on guard against odors that will linger long after the smeller is away from the source. Jane Andrews, Cases. PAGE D5
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); AL FATAH (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORISM (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CHILDREN (70%); CORPORAL PUNISHMENT IN SCHOOLS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (68%); LUXURY GOODS (67%); APPAREL MFG (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); GOVERNORS (54%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (65%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (65%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (51%); EAST CHINA (51%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



302 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Fear That Paterson, Deeply Unpopular, Is Liability

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
As he prepares to run for re-election, Representative Michael E. McMahon, a Democrat from Staten Island, is burdened with having to campaign in a district where Republicans have a strong presence and where the impact of job losses on Wall Street has been particularly severe. 
 But, increasingly, he has another worry: Gov. David A. Paterson. 
 Mr. McMahon and other leading Democrats are concerned that the election prospects of the party's candidates will be undermined with Mr. Paterson prominently on the ticket, as he is hobbled by plunging job-approval ratings and missteps that have raised questions about whether he should even run next year. 
 ''I'm cautious because there is uncertainty at the top of the ticket,'' said Mr. McMahon, who is running for a second term. ''It's inherently a difficult district for Democrats.''
 Representative Dan Maffei, who won a Republican-held seat in the Syracuse area in 2008, shares Mr. McMahon's apprehension. ''Already we have a situation that is challenging,'' he said. ''We can't afford to get stuck in the mire of state politics.''
 For the most part, Mr. Paterson's troubles have played out as a statehouse drama in Albany. But the concerns raised by Mr. McMahon and Mr. Maffei underscore the far-reaching impact that Mr. Paterson's problems are starting to have on other Democrats, especially Congressional candidates, from New York City to the upstate region.
 Democratic Party leaders in Washington are already concerned about the fate of at least a half-dozen members of Congress who must run in highly competitive districts where Republicans have long enjoyed a strong presence.
 Scott Levenson, a Democratic political strategist who supports Mr. Paterson, said the fear that Democratic candidates have about Mr. Paterson dragging them down is understandable.
 ''Any Democrat running in 2010 has to be concerned about the governor's current poll numbers,'' he said. ''For those candidates running in competitive districts, to not be concerned would violate their own self-interest.''
 For his part, Mr. Paterson has remained steadfast in his intention to run next year. A spokeswoman responded testily to suggestions that he could hurt the Democratic cause. 
 ''These concerted attempts to undermine the governor, in the form of rumor-mongering, potshots and freelancing, do not serve the people of the state well and certainly do not reflect well on those who are participating in it,'' said the spokeswoman, Tracy Sefl. ''No political sideshow will sway him from continuing to make decisions, however difficult, in the best interests of the people of New York.''
 The biggest fear is that Mr. Paterson presents such an enticing target that he will encourage a challenge from a prominent Republican, like former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who could galvanize the party and give Republican voters a reason to be enthusiastic about the race. 
 Republicans, who have lost six Congressional seats in New York over the last two elections, believe that their chances to make gains in the state's House races are greater with Mr. Paterson on the ticket.
 Ken Spain, a senior strategist with the National Republican Congressional Committee, said Mr. Paterson's presence on the ticket would probably intensify the problems that Democrats running next year are likely to face, chief among them the anxiety among voters about the state of the economy.
 ''We believe there could potentially be an even greater opportunity in swing districts across the state,'' he said. 
 But Shripal Shah, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said Democratic incumbents were working to make their campaigns as strong as possible regardless of who runs for governor. 
 ''Our members are focused on serving their constituents and representing their districts,'' he said. ''And we're confident their focus will lead to successful re-election campaigns next year.''
 Mr. Patterson's presence on the ticket could have ramifications beyond House races in New York. Republican leaders have been trying to persuade former Gov. George E. Pataki to challenge Kirsten E. Gillibrand for senator next year; they believe he would be swayed if the state's Democratic Party was weakened by having Mr. Paterson as its leader. 
 ''Paterson at the top of the ticket would open up opportunities for Republicans at a variety of levels,'' said one Republican strategist, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified because he was not authorized to discuss internal party strategy. ''That is sort of what we are banking on.''
 At the same time, the National Republican Senatorial Committee has already sought to exploit the ties between Mr. Paterson and Ms. Gillibrand, the Congresswoman he appointed to fill the Senate seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 The committee, in its news releases and other campaign literature, routinely uses the tongue-in-cheek honorific ''Paterson-Appointee'' when referring to Ms. Gillibrand. 
 All of this helps explain why many New York Democrats, including a growing number of powerful labor leaders, are eager for Mr. Paterson to step aside and make way for Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, whose job-approval rating far surpasses the governor's. 
 Mr. Paterson's dismal standing has led prominent New York Democrats to informally approach White House officials behind the scenes about possibly finding a political appointment for the governor if his poll numbers do not improve.
 ''At this point, people are brainstorming about how to give the governor a dignified exit,'' said one Democratic leader directly involved in the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the subject.
 A possible sign that the administration is taking a serious interest in the situation is that Patrick Gaspard, President Obama's political director and a former prominent labor leader in New York, is directly monitoring what's happening in the state, according to leading New York Democrats. Mr. Gaspard regularly speaks with Democrats in New York, party leaders say. 
 Beyond Mr. Paterson's plight, Democratic candidates also have to contend with historical trends: the party of a sitting president typically loses House seats in the midterm election.
 ''In order to be comfortable,'' said Mr. Maffei, the congressman from the Syracuse area, ''we need to see the governor to politically rehabilitate himself or step aside and let another come in. But that is up to him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson, at a bill-signing at Starrett City in Brooklyn last month, is expected to seek a full term in 2010.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); DAVID PATERSON (91%); DAN MAFFEI (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (70%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



303 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Recovery in Asia Begins to Gather Steam

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Has Asia's economic recovery reached a turning point?
 Recent economic data, some unexpectedly good results from companies around the region, early signs of some new hiring, and a stock market rally that has defied most analysts' expectations would seem to indicate that perhaps it has.
 On Tuesday, economic reports from Singapore, the Philippines, Australia and China provided the latest fuel for hopes that Asia was on track for a recovery that would outpace that of Europe and the United States and give the region more economic and political clout. 
 Even in Japan, which is mired in its deepest recession in decades, the central bank's governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, struck an upbeat note after a rate-setting meeting on Tuesday. 
 ''Asian economies seem to be growing at a faster pace,'' he said, according to Reuters. ''Since the spring, the financial system has also been improving. The overall direction is heading toward improvement.''
 Still, Asia has depended heavily on government stimulus projects. Exports remain weak, and a renewed downturn in the West -- the primary market for Asian goods -- or a turnaround in the rise in Asian stocks, could pose major risks. 
 But these days, economists see an improved economy. ''Things certainly look better than they did three months ago,'' said Simon Wong, regional economist at Standard Chartered in Hong Kong.
 All through the crisis that engulfed the world financial system and tipped much of the world into recession last year, Asia has had a major advantage: Its banks steered clear of the complex financial instruments that caused some Western banks to collapse. Asian governments and companies were in relatively sound financial health, having repaired their finances only recently after the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98.
 Asia's export-dependent economies suffered badly when consumers and companies in the United States and Europe curtailed purchases, leading to a collapse in Asian exports late last year. But over all, Asia has recovered more rapidly than most analysts had dared to hope, as governments spent heavily to lift their economies.
 In recent weeks, companies like Sony, Panasonic and Samsung have reported better -- or at least less bad -- results for the quarter from April through June. Hyundai Motor even reported a record quarterly profit.
 Although many companies are continuing to cut jobs, job recruiters in Asia say they see evidence that some companies are adding staff again. ''It's been a very tough 10 months, but over the past six or seven weeks, we've seen a modest upturn in jobs activity in banking -- albeit from a very, very low position,'' said Nigel Heap, managing director for the recruitment firm Hays in Sydney. ''We're cautiously optimistic that the worst is over in Hong Kong and Singapore.''
 China in particular has stood out in Asia. After years of double-digit growth, the Chinese economy stumbled this year. A giant spending package, deep interest-rate cuts and much greater lending by state-controlled banks have pulled the economy back to a healthy level of growth in recent months.
 Data for July, released by the statistics office on Tuesday, illustrated the point: Industrial output, an indicator of broader growth, rose 10.8 percent from a year earlier, while retail sales gained 15.2 percent.
 Although the rise in output was less than expected, and exports took a further hit, economists at Goldman Sachs say they believe that China could return to growth of more than 10 percent as soon as next year. This week, Goldman raised its forecast for full-year growth for China to 9.4 percent. That was up from the 8.3 percent previously projected and higher than the government's 8 percent target. For 2010, the economists say they expect China to expand by 11.9 percent.
 Not all economists agree that the picture is quite as rosy. For one thing, China's policy makers now face a delicate balancing act. A spike in property and equities markets --the Shanghai stock index is up about 80 percent this year-- has led many to worry that another bubble is in the making. Analysts say the authorities now have to scale back bank lending to deflate price spikes without choking growth.
 Data on Tuesday showed that bank lending dropped off sharply in July, but so far most economists remained relaxed. 
 ''We believe that investment in the coming months will continue to be well supported by lending that has already taken place,'' Tao Wang, a economist at UBS in Shanghai, said in a note. 
 Exports, which account for about a third of China's economy, remain depressed, sinking 23 percent in July from a year earlier. The decline was smaller than economists had expected, and indicated that external demand was steadily recovering, Qing Wang, China economist at Morgan Stanley, said in a note. But it nevertheless showed that overseas demand for Asian-made goods remained well below the level of a year ago.
 At the same time, the pace of recovery is uneven across Asia.
 In Australia, business confidence is at the highest level in almost two years, and the central bank has indicated that it could raise interest rates.
 By contrast, Japan remains in a deep recession. ''The global economy has suffered a great shock,'' said Mr. Shirakawa, the central bank governor. ''We can't expect to see an impressive recovery.''
 The key question now is what happens ''beyond the near-term,'' said Mr. Wong, the Standard Chartered economist.
 ''We've seen a short-term rebound,'' he said. ''The question is what happens longer term -- how will countries like China and Indonesia switch from export-dependent to something else? There are still lots of uncertainties about that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at a construction site in downtown Shanghai. China's economy could return to double-digit growth as soon as next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); NEW ISSUES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (64%); LAYOFFS (60%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (51%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (51%); 005380 (KSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) ASIA (99%); CHINA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); HONG KONG (93%); EUROPE (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



304 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: After Power Shift in Albany, Senate Republicans Lose Fund-Raising Edge

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Losing the majority in the State Senate last year cost Republicans the choice office space they long occupied in the Capitol, their committee chairmanships and dozens of staff members.
 But it is also costing them something even more important: millions of dollars in campaign contributions, the lifeblood of politics.
 Senate Republicans, who once had perhaps the most formidable fund-raising operation in Albany, were heavily outraised by Senate Democrats during the first six months of 2009, as donors moved to ingratiate themselves with the new majority party, according to an analysis of donation records by the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonpartisan watchdog organization. 
 While Senate Democrats raised $6.9 million, Republicans raised just $2.5 million. That $4.4 million gap is the second-largest between the two parties since 1999, when the State Board of Elections introduced electronic filing.
 The Democrats' haul was more than twice what they raised during the first half of 2007, the last year without statewide elections. The Republicans' total was just half of what they raised during the same period in 2007.
 The big difference between the parties could hamper Republicans' plans for retaking control of the Senate next year and underscores how much power is wielded by the dominant party in Albany, even though the Senate Democrats hold a majority of just two votes. 
 ''Special interests give money based on power, not ideology,'' said Bill Mahoney, the research coordinator at the research group who wrote the analysis. ''As the Senate has shifted to Democrat control, power players that have traditionally supported Republicans have shifted the lion's share of campaign dollars to the new Democrat majority.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the Republicans declined to comment on the disparities. 
 The original study was published in July. At the request of The New York Times, the research group broke down contributions by sector, revealing a particularly big shift among labor unions, which are traditionally close to Democrats but forged close ties with Republicans over the years when that party controlled the flow of legislation through the Senate. 
 In the first half of 2007, labor unions gave about $1 million to Senate Republicans. In the same period in 2009, they gave less than half that, about $422,608.
 One of the most telling shifts involves the powerful state health care union, 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East. Despite its downstate base and largely black membership, the union was for years a staunch and important ally of Senate Republicans, who guarded the union's legislative interests. In the first half of 2007, the union donated $436,200 to Senate Republicans. In the first six months of 2009, it gave nothing.
 George Gresham, the union's president, denied that the change in the majority affected the union's donations. ''We have not made any deliberate decision to support one party over the other,'' he said. ''We have historically made contributions to both parties.''
 A Democratic spokesman, Shams M. Tarek, said in a statement that much of the shift merely reflected the natural affinity between the Democratic Party and particular constituencies.
 ''For many groups, like the labor community and its membership of working men and women, by supporting Senate Democrats they're supporting officials who best represent their membership on issues like the minimum wage, which we fought Republicans over for years, or job creation or unemployment benefits,'' Mr. Tarek said. 
 But even the business community -- a natural ally of Republican lawmakers -- has decided to woo Democrats. Trade associations and corporate political action committees gave $4,522,214 to Senate Republicans in the first half of 2007, but only $1,290,351 so far this year.
 Senate Republicans also appear to have lost a major patron in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who in past years funneled hundreds of thousands of dollars to their central campaign committee. While Mr. Bloomberg has given money to individual Republican senators in the first half of 2009, he did not send a check to the central committee.
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, declined to comment.
 There are some rays of hope for Senate Republicans, however. Despite a weak fund-raising season, Republicans ended the first half of the year with more than $10 million on hand, substantially more than the Democrats.
 Moreover, most of the Democrats' fund-raising took place before the political crisis that erupted June 8 when two Senate Democrats briefly joined with Republicans in a new majority coalition. Though the two ultimately returned to their party and kept the Senate in the Democrats' hands, the Democratic leadership remains fractured, which may hamper fund-raising. 
 Republicans were also able to extract substantial power-sharing concessions during this summer's standoff that will make them a far more influential minority party than the Democrats were. As a result, unions and trade associations will have incentive to give to Senate Republicans. 
 One prominent lobbyist, who asked for anonymity because he did not want to offend Senate Democrats, said he would continue giving to Republicans.
 ''The rules changes fundamentally empower these guys,'' he said. ''And you've seen how the Democrats work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); HEALTH CARE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



305 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Casts Ukraine Leader as Adversary

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
The Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, assailed his Ukrainian counterpart on Tuesday, blaming him for anti-Russian policies that he said had brought relations between the countries to ''unprecedented lows.'' 
 In a letter to Ukraine's president, Viktor A. Yushchenko, posted on the Kremlin Web site on Tuesday, Mr. Medvedev announced that Russia would not send its new ambassador to Ukraine as planned, ''given the anti-Russian course of the Ukrainian leadership.'' 
 Ukraine's acting foreign minister, Volodymyr Khandogiy, said at a news conference in Kiev that the Foreign Ministry was disappointed by Mr. Medvedev's decision to put off the arrival of Russia's ambassador, the Interfax news agency reported. 
 Relations between Russia and Ukraine have ranged from turbulent to openly antagonistic since Mr. Yushchenko took power in 2005 after a bloodless uprising known as the Orange Revolution, ousting a political clan backed by Moscow and largely seen as corrupt.
 In his letter, Mr. Medvedev said relations between Russia and Ukraine had reached their lowest levels since the Soviet Union collapsed. He lashed out at Mr. Yushchenko's pro-Western policies, especially his efforts to seek NATO membership, which Russia views as a national security threat. 
 On a visit to Ukraine last month, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said the United States would continue to support Ukraine's NATO bid, once again highlighting the issue, which is unpopular with many Ukrainians. 
 Mr. Medvedev expressed anger at Mr. Yushchenko's suggestion that Russia's Black Sea Fleet would be evicted from the Ukrainian port city of Sevastopol when its lease expired in 2017. He also dismissed as a ''nationalistic interpretation'' Mr. Yushchenko's insistence that a famine that ravaged Ukraine and other parts of the Soviet Union in the early 1930s was genocide against the Ukrainian people by Soviet authorities. 
 Mr. Medvedev's most pointed criticism on Tuesday was in response to Mr. Yushchenko's unequivocal support for the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, during Georgia's brief war with Russia last August over South Ossetia, a separatist Georgian region. 
 ''Kiev has adopted an openly anti-Russian position regarding the Saakashvili regime's military attack on South Ossetia,'' Mr. Medvedev wrote in his Web posting. ''Ukrainian weapons killed peaceful citizens and Russian peacekeepers.'' 
 Ukraine has never denied selling weapons to Georgia, claiming such sales complied with international law. The United States and Israel, among other countries, also have incensed Russian authorities by selling weapons to Georgia, and last month Mr. Medvedev said Russia would impose sanctions on any company still doing so. 
 Mr. Yushchenko has complained that the Kremlin has sought to limit Ukrainian sovereignty, in part by imposing costly economic blockades in response to perceived slights. In recent years, Moscow has placed embargoes on Ukrainian products like milk and meat. Moscow has also occasionally shut off the flow of natural gas through Ukraine, restricting energy supplies to Western Europe, which receives about 80 percent of its Russian gas through Ukraine. 
 Mr. Medvedev's remarks seemed to indicate that the Kremlin would no longer be willing to work with Mr. Yushchenko, who is seeking re-election in a presidential vote in January. ''Russia hopes that a new political leadership in Ukraine will be prepared to establish relations between our countries that in practice will address the real aspirations of our people and the interests of strengthening European security,'' Mr. Medvedev said. 
 In Ukraine's last presidential elections, which touched off the Orange Revolution, Moscow was criticized for its open support of Mr. Yushchenko's main challenger, Viktor F. Yanukovich. 
 At that time, Mr. Yushchenko was a political hero in Ukraine, his face scarred by an unsolved poisoning attempt, for which he blamed Russia. Now his ratings are in the single digits, and Mr. Yanukovich is favored to win the election. 
 In a statement posted on his party's Web site on Tuesday, Mr. Yanukovich said normal relations between the current administration in Ukraine and Russia were impossible. ''The first thing we will do upon taking power will be to revive normal, neighborly, equal and mutually beneficial relations with our strategic partner, Russia,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, in Sochi on Tuesday. He accuses his Ukrainian counterpart of being anti-Russian.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY ASTAKHOV/RIA NOVOSTI, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS TRADE (84%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); FAMINE (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); GENOCIDE (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (78%); JOE BIDEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (98%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



306 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Britain and Liechtenstein Sign Tax Pact

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Britain on Tuesday signed a tax cooperation agreement with Liechtenstein that would allow British holders of assets in secret accounts to declare their holdings voluntarily in exchange for a reduced penalty fee or face the closure of their accounts. 
 Those who fail to make a full disclosure by the end of the program will have to move their accounts out of Liechtenstein and pay all the taxes evaded as well as a like amount as a penalty, in addition to facing possible legal action, the government said.
 ''Those who have been evading U.K. taxes on assets held in Liechtenstein banks must now settle with us,'' Dave Hartnett, permanent secretary for tax at the British treasury, said in a statement. ''There are no alternatives.''
 Klaus Tschutscher, prime minister of Liechtenstein, called the agreement ''one that ensures legal certainty and helps bridging the individual interests involved.''
 ''We are creating a stable and reliable regulatory framework and for the client the possibility to make use of an attractive option,'' Mr. Tschutscher said in a statement.
 For years, Liechtenstein's secretive banking laws offered individuals a place to store their wealth out of sight and reach of their own tax authorities. The country defended its laws even as Germany opened a tax-evasion inquiry last year aimed at secret Liechtenstein accounts.
 Bowing to pressure from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which maintains a blacklist of uncooperative tax havens, Liechtenstein has increased cooperation and, with Andorra and Monaco, was removed from the blacklist in May.
 The agreement Tuesday follows a deal by Liechtenstein to share information on taxes with Germany last month and a similar agreement with the United States in December. The terms are considered generally more lenient than those agreed with other governments recently, which applied higher penalties.
 Tax experts said the agreement signed Tuesday could become a model for accords with tax haven countries.
 ''The general direction is now towards more such agreements,'' said Barry Murphy, a tax partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London. ''No one would deny a taxpayer privacy, but they want to keep people from using the secrecy laws to evade taxes.''
 The economic crisis has added to the pressure to clamp down on tax havens. Eager to improve their tax receipts, which have dwindled as companies have piled on losses and unemployment rose during the recession, governments have pledged to recoup payments for assets held by their citizens abroad.
 The British government hopes to recoup taxes on an estimated $:2 billion to $:3 billion ($3.3 billion to $5 billion) of assets held by about 5,000 British investors in Liechtenstein accounts. Britain has already signed tax cooperation agreements with other tax havens, including Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man. A previous crackdown in 2007 aimed at offshore accounts offered by British banks brought several million pounds in tax payments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Klaus Tschutscher, prime minister of Liechtenstein. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAN DERUNGS/ A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); LIECHTENSTEIN (94%); GERMANY (90%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (79%); GUERNSEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISLE OF MAN (79%); JERSEY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); MONACO (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



307 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: A Nascent Debate in Germany: Research or Manufacturing?

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: DRESDEN, Germany 

 BODY:
In recent months, two big computer chip makers slipped through Dresden's fingers, challenging the notion that an area that likes to think of itself as ''Silicon Saxony'' can continue to churn out high-technology devices by the millions. But not every inhabitant of this picturesque city considers that a bad thing.
 The loss has fired a debate over whether the future of Dresden, in what was once East Germany, should lie more in research and design, rather than manufacturing, and few are more passionate about the intellectual side of the chip-making business than the young entrepreneurs at Blue Wonder Communications. Barely four months old, the company is angling for a piece of the lucrative business in designing chips for the next generation of wireless technology. 
 Not one of its employees, almost all of them engineers, will actually make anything.
 ''We need to put money in places that create knowledge, not things,'' said Wolfram Drescher, one of two co-chief executives at the company. ''If all we had were production and not knowledge, I'd be standing on the street, unemployed.''
 The thought that traditional manufacturing should not necessarily be the indispensable foundation of the economy is heresy in Germany. But as China moves to supplant Germany as the world's largest exporter of goods, the questions here over where to invest for the future go to the heart of an issue that Americans have faced for decades but that Germans are just beginning to confront.
 The best examples of this tension come from Dresden. This year, the region's largest private-sector employer -- the chip maker Qimonda -- went bankrupt, while another, Global Foundries, broke ground in upstate New York on a new plant that Dresden had sought for itself.
 Qimonda, a venture part-owned by Infineon that made memory chips, turned to Thomas Jurk, Saxony's economy minister, for help earlier this year. But when he traveled to Berlin to discuss the company's situation with political leaders, he found the government focused on rescuing Opel, the main European subsidiary of the bankrupt General Motors.
 ''I heard first that they cared about Opel,'' Mr. Jurk said, ''and second that they cared about -- Opel.''
 Qimonda's request for help ultimately proved too large for the state to save the company, and its insolvency cost, directly or indirectly, up to 6,000 jobs in the Dresden region.
 Dresden started to become a center for high technology in 1999, when Advanced Micro Devices built a chip fabrication plant here to make microprocessors for personal computers. Suppliers of things like clean-room technology and masks sprang up around the region, and from 2002 to 2007, the number of people employed in the semiconductor industry more than doubled, to 43,000 from 21,000.
 This year, A.M.D. split off its manufacturing business into Global Foundries, a joint venture with an investor from Abu Dhabi, and it is still a huge piece of the area's economy. But Global Foundries, rather than expanding here, was drawn by roughly $1.2 billion in subsidies to build its newest fabrication plant in Saratoga County, N.Y. 
 Mr. Drescher of Blue Wonder says that Saxony needs to focus on what it can deliver -- smart people -- rather than bid to sway decisions about where chip makers will build plants.
 Blue Wonder will design chips for mobile phones, based on the emerging technical standard known as LTE. The company is in its infancy but most of the staff already know one another from working together on another start-up company that became part of NXP, a spinoff of the Dutch electronics giant Philips, which closed its Dresden research center last year.
 In truth, many were happy to go. Mr. Drescher recalls a smile creeping across a colleague's face when the decision was announced. ''The fun factor is gone when your company is suddenly large,'' Mr. Drescher said.
 Barely six months later they were ensconced in a new office in a small office building that looks down on the Elbe River.
 On a recent morning, Mr. Drescher, 43, clicked through a series of PowerPoint slides for Mr. Jurk, the economy minister. ''Knowledge beats production,'' screamed one slide, while another drove the point home to the man who sometimes steers tax money toward local companies: ''Saxony has to invest in development, less in production.''
 Later, behind closed doors, Mr. Drescher delivered a pitch to Mr. Jurk, one his ministry is still mulling over. Blue Wonder needs test chips -- products that incorporate its designs as prototypes -- and is asking the state of Saxony to help finance them. Blue Wonder, aware of the advantage of working with a German producer, wants to rely on the Global Foundries plant in Dresden, which is eager to diversify its roster of clients.
 The idea reflects the political realities in Saxony, and indeed, Germany.
 ''I would say that the preference for manufacturing is at least as strong here as it is anywhere in Germany,'' said Heinz Martin Esser, a managing director of Silicon Saxony, the industry's local trade association. It is, he added, ''in the blood of the Saxons.''
 The state worked hard early this decade to attract Porsche and BMW factories to Leipzig, its other major city after Dresden. And Chemnitz, once known as Karl-Marx-Stadt, has become a center for machine-tool makers.
 Mr. Jurk, a 20-year veteran of Saxon politics, responded earlier this year to Qimonda's request for help because he was sensitive to the fact that production facilities tended to employ more people than research labs.
 Moreover, Qimonda supported a range of capital-intensive research efforts around Dresden.
 No one knew that better than Jurgen Rustig, the scientific director of Namlab, a research center that was a partnership between Qimonda and a local university, which took over the insolvent company's share of the venture. Namlab's research into nanotechnology will eventually help create more compact chip designs, and Mr. Rustig had planned on sounding out what might interest the market through its partnership with Qimonda.
 ''Producers are your connection to the customer,'' Mr. Rustig said.
 That's a powerful argument, but Mr. Drescher counters that making things yourself is not as critical as it once was.
 Qualcomm, one of the world's largest makers of communications chips, owns nary a factory. And the place where the industry all began just lost its last semiconductor plant, Mr. Drescher notes.
 ''Silicon Valley isn't a factory anymore,'' he said. ''It's a think-tank.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Namlab, a research center in Dresden. Germany is beginning to question its historic emphasis on producing goods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MEYER FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) CHART: GERMAN MANUFACTURING: In recent years, Germany was one of the few advanced industrial nations where manufacturing accounted for a rising share of the economy. But the sector has been hard hit in the downturn. (Source: UniCredit Research) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); CLEANROOMS (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: QIMONDA AG (84%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) SACHSEN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



308 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Investors Sell Bank Shares Ahead of the Fed's Statement

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Major stock indexes fell 1 percent, the most in five weeks, on Tuesday as investors worried that the market's steep gains in the last month would unravel if the economy failed to show more signs of strengthening. 
 Warnings about the health of banks and uneasiness ahead of the Federal Reserve's economic statement Wednesday led investors to dump financial stocks and wade into defensive areas like consumer staples and government debt.
 Meanwhile, a record 10th consecutive monthly drop in wholesale inventories brought a fresh reminder that a recovery in the economy was likely to be gradual.
 But many analysts said investors were not panicking but taking a much-needed pause after a rally that seemed to be going at breakneck speed. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had reached its highest level since last fall, rising 15 percent in just four weeks and 49 percent from a 12-year low in early March.
 ''This sort of give-and-take is quite healthy,'' said Erik Davidson, managing director of investments at the Wells Fargo Private Bank in Carmel, Calif. ''You're up 50 percent in five months. That's 10 percent a month. In quote-unquote normal markets that's five years worth of returns.''
 Moreover, traders often become jittery when the Fed policy makers meet to discuss interest rates. 
 ''It's pretty clear that a lot of people are pulling back any bets pending what is going to happen with the Fed,'' said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors in San Francisco.
 There were some troubling developments during the day, however. Downbeat comments from analysts about banks weighed on the market. Richard Bove, an analyst for Rochdale Securities, predicted that bank earnings would not improve for the second half of the year and that many companies would post losses.
 ''It just takes the euphoria feelings off the table,'' said Dave Rovelli, managing director of trading at the brokerage Canaccord Adams in New York, referring to Mr. Bove's comments and recent optimism among investors.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 96.50 points, or 1.03 percent, to 9,241.45. The broader S.& P. 500 index fell 12.75, or 1.27 percent, to 994.35.
 It was the biggest drop for both the Dow and the S.& P. 500 index since July 7.
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 22.51 points, or 1.13 percent, to 1,969.73.
 Bond prices jumped. The gains followed a solid showing at the first of the week's three auctions for a record $75 billion in debt. 
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 27/32, to 95 18/32 and the yield fell to 3.68 percent, from 3.78 percent late Monday.
 Among banks, Citigroup fell 25 cents, or 6.4 percent, to $3.69. Bank of America fell 83 cents, or 5 percent, to $15.85.
 The bond insurer MBIA tumbled 78 cents, or 12.6 percent, to $5.39 after J.P. Morgan Securities cut its rating on the stock over concerns that the company could face steep losses from bad debt.
 Wal-Mart Stores rose 32 cents, to $50.04, as investors looked for safe-haven investments.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auctions of four-week bills and three-year notes:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEBT NOTES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



309 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Star Is Rising Up to His Burden

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
When he faces the United States Wednesday in a crucial World Cup qualifying match, the young forward Giovani dos Santos will again be considered the future of Mexican soccer. Perhaps this time, the pedestal will not be as rickety as it is elevating.
 As Mexico won the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2005, dos Santos was voted the tournament's second-best player. He was the son of a Brazilian father and possessed that familiar Brazilian flair with the ball. The next Ronaldinho, they called him. 
 Of course, it was too much, too soon. Depending on who tells the story, the teenager's chest puffed too broadly with self-satisfaction or his slim shoulders could not bear the weight of expectation. He quickly tumbled from that pedestal of national faith.
 The decline of dos Santos's career could be found on his inverted club resume. He grew up in the Barcelona youth system, then played for the senior club in 2007-8, before moving to Tottenham Hotspur in the English Premier League for 2008-9, where he struggled with fitness on the field and hit bottom off it.
 Last December, dos Santos, then 19, was photographed at Tottenham's Christmas party, appearing to be extremely drunk, seemingly in way over his head, unable to stand on his own two feet.
 In March of this year, he was lent to Ipswich Town, a step below the Premier League, a career depreciation that The Guardian newspaper of Manchester called a ''humiliating descent'' for a player once considered a rising international star.
 Dos Santos has since turned 20, though, and perhaps he has shed his callowness with his teenage years. Last month, he was named the most valuable player of the regional Gold Cup tournament. In a 5-0 rout of the United States in the final at Giants Stadium, he and his fellow forward Carlos Vela, also 20, scored or facilitated Mexico's first four goals.
 For the first time in a decade, Mexico defeated the Americans in the United States. And for one of the rare times since his success at the junior level, dos Santos displayed enormous possibility. The defeat brought little recrimination for the United States, which fielded a team of reserves. For Mexico and dos Santos, though, victory might have brought an awakening.
 His curly hair secured beneath a wide headband, playing with muscle and finesse, dos Santos ran unencumbered into vacant spaces as the American defense stretched and then shredded. He threatened from his preferred spot on the right wing, knifing inside, dribbling securely with his favored left foot, passing ingeniously, drawing a penalty kick for Mexico, scoring a predatory rebound goal.
 ''Giovani grew in the Gold Cup,'' the Mexican defender Rafael Marquez said. ''He achieved a level of responsibility that he didn't before. He proved the quality of player he is, the Giovani we need for the national team. This kind of player, Mexico doesn't have that much.''
 Marquez, who plays for Barcelona, is expected to miss Wednesday's match with a calf injury. Dos Santos is expected to start at forward or as an attacking midfielder. Club teams in Italy, Spain and Turkey have reportedly shown interest (though he has said he plans to return to Tottenham). Again, all of Mexico has raised its hopes and anticipation for him.
 On Monday, dos Santos laughed easily with teammates as he jogged before training, but the Mexican soccer federation is shielding him from reporters. He is young, and there is much pressure on him and the national team.
 ''I wasn't as bad as everybody thought and I'm not as good as everybody thought,'' dos Santos recently told ESPN Deportes, a Spanish-language network. ''I'm going through a great moment, and I hope to capitalize on it.'' 
 A defeat Wednesday could wreck Mexico's chances of qualifying for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. Only three teams from the Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean region will qualify automatically. The fourth-place team will enter a home-and-away playoff against the fifth-place team from South America. Mexico now holds that perilous fourth spot.
 ''A loss would crush them,'' Landon Donovan, the American playmaker, said.
 Losing for the first time at home to the United States would also deal a blow to the national psyche of a country already struggling with a global recession, a swine flu epidemic and murderous drug wars.
 ''I'd get drunk out of pure rage,'' said Rodrigo Maya, a hotel night-shift manager in Mexico City.
 A victory, on the other hand, would give Mexico some long-sought tranquillity in soccer, and a brief respite from other troubles. Some 105,000 fans will be watching at Estadio Azteca, and millions more on television, desperately hoping that dos Santos can conjure his restorative magic.
 Much credit for his seeming maturity has been given to Javier Aguirre, Mexico's coach. Aguirre is a former teammate of dos Santos's father, known as Zizinho, with Club America in the Mexican League. He has known the son since he was a boy and is said to have something deeper than a coach-player relationship with him, a more familial bond.
 ''Aguirre is very keen dealing with these things,'' said Juan Villoro, the Mexican author of a book about soccer and religion, ''God Is Round.'' ''I think he told dos Santos, 'This is your last chance to show you're a great player.' He was a young world champion and thought he achieved everything. He thought he was king of the mambo. To a certain extent he is, but you always have to think of the next game.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); CHRISTMAS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (58%)

PERSON: RONALDINHO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (74%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



310 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: China's Incinerators Loom as a Global Hazard

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: SHENZHEN, China 

 BODY:
In this sprawling metropolis in southeastern China stand two hulking brown buildings erected by a private company, the Longgang trash incinerators. They can be smelled a mile away and pour out so much dark smoke and hazardous chemicals that hundreds of local residents recently staged an all-day sit-in, demanding that the incinerators be cleaner and that a planned third incinerator not be built nearby. 
 After surpassing the United States as the world's largest producer of household garbage, China has embarked on a vast program to build incinerators as landfills run out of space. But these incinerators have become a growing source of toxic emissions, from dioxin to mercury, that can damage the body's nervous system. 
And these pollutants, particularly long-lasting substances like dioxin and mercury, are dangerous not only in China, a growing body of atmospheric research based on satellite observations suggests. They float on air currents across the Pacific to American shores.
 Chinese incinerators can be better. At the other end of Shenzhen from Longgang, no smoke is visible from the towering smokestack of the Baoan incinerator, built by a company owned by the municipal government. Government tests show that it emits virtually no dioxin and other pollutants.
 But the Baoan incinerator cost 10 times as much as the Longgang incinerators, per ton of trash-burning capacity.
 The difference between the Baoan and Longgang incinerators lies at the center of a growing controversy in China. Incinerators are being built to wildly different standards across the country and even across cities like Shenzhen. For years Chinese government regulators have discussed the need to impose tighter limits on emissions. But they have done nothing because of a bureaucratic turf war, a Chinese government official and Chinese incineration experts said.
 The Chinese government is struggling to cope with the rapidly rising mountains of trash generated as the world's most populated country has raced from poverty to rampant consumerism. Beijing officials warned in June that all of the city's landfills would run out of space within five years.
 The governments of several cities with especially affluent, well-educated citizens, including Beijing and Shanghai, are setting pollution standards as strict as Europe's. Despite those standards, protests against planned incinerators broke out this spring in Beijing and Shanghai as well as Shenzhen.
 Increasingly outspoken residents in big cities are deeply distrustful that incinerators will be built and operated to international standards. ''It's hard to say whether this standard will be reached -- maybe the incinerator is designed to reach this benchmark, but how do we know it will be properly operated?'' said Zhao Yong, a computer server engineer who has become a neighborhood activist in Beijing against plans for an incinerator there.
 Yet far dirtier incinerators continue to be built in inland cities where residents have shown little awareness of pollution.
 Studies at the University of Washington and the Argonne National Laboratory in Argonne, Ill., have estimated that a sixth of the mercury now falling on North American lakes comes from Asia, particularly China, mainly from coal-fired plants and smelters but also from incinerators. Pollution from incinerators also tends to be high in toxic metals like cadmium.
 Incinerators play the most important role in emissions of dioxin. Little research has been done on dioxin crossing the Pacific. But analyses of similar chemicals have shown that they can travel very long distances.
 A 2005 report from the World Bank warned that if China built incinerators rapidly and did not limit their emissions, worldwide atmospheric levels of dioxin could double. China has since slowed its construction of incinerators and limited their emissions somewhat, but the World Bank has yet to do a follow-up report.
 Airborne dioxin is not the only problem from incinerators. The ash left over after combustion is laced with dioxin and other pollutants. Zhong Rigang, the chief engineer at the Baoan incinerator here, said that his operation sent its ash to a special landfill designed to cope with toxic waste. But an academic paper last year by Nie Yongfeng, a Tsinghua University professor and government adviser who sees a need for more incinerators, said that most municipal landfills for toxic waste lacked room for the ash, so the ash was dumped. 
 Trash incinerators have two advantages that have prompted Japan and much of Europe to embrace them: they occupy much less real estate than landfills, and the heat from burning trash can be used to generate electricity. The Baoan incinerator generates enough power to light 40,000 households.
 And landfills have their own environmental hazards. Decay in landfills also releases large quantities of methane, a powerful global warming gas, said Robert McIlvaine, president of McIlvaine Company, an energy consulting firm that calculates the relative costs of addressing disparate environmental hazards. Methane from landfills is a far bigger problem in China than toxic pollutants from incinerators, particularly modern incinerators like those in Baoan, he said. 
 China's national regulations still allow incinerators to emit 10 times as much dioxin as incinerators in the European Union; American standards are similar to those in Europe. Tightening of China's national standards has been stuck for three years in a bureaucratic war between the environment ministry and the main economic planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission, said a Beijing official who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the subject publicly.
 The agencies agree that tighter standards on dioxin emissions are needed. They disagree on whether the environment ministry should have the power to stop incinerator projects that do not meet tighter standards, the official said, adding that the planning agency wants to retain the power to decide which projects go ahead.
 Yan Jianhua, the director of the solid waste treatment expert group in Zhejiang province, a center of incinerator equipment manufacturing in China, defended the industry's record on dioxin, saying that households that burn their trash outdoors emit far more dioxin.
 ''Open burning is a bigger problem according to our research,'' Professor Yan said, adding that what China really needs is better trash collection so that garbage can be disposed of more reliably.
 Critics and admirers of incinerators alike call for more recycling and reduced use of packaging as ways to reduce the daily volume of municipal garbage. Even when not recycled, sorted trash is easier for incinerators to burn cleanly, because the temperature in the furnace can be adjusted more precisely to minimize the formation of dioxin.
 Yet the Chinese public has shown little enthusiasm for recycling. As Mr. Zhong, the engineer at the Baoan incinerator, put it, ''No one really cares.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CITIES (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); METEOROLOGY (68%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



311 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Worker Productivity Grows at a Rapid Pace

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The productivity of American workers grew in the second quarter at the fastest rate in almost six years as employers slashed payrolls to bolster profits.
 Productivity, a measure of how much an employee produces for each hour worked, rose at an annual rate of 6.4 percent, more than forecast, after a 0.3 percent gain in the prior three months, the Labor Department said. Labor costs fell by the most in eight years. 
 Lower expenses mean companies may need to lay off fewer workers as sales stabilize, the first step toward ending the worst employment slump in the post-World War II era. Efficiency gains also help curb inflation, giving Federal Reserve policy makers, meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, extra time to remove stimulus.
 ''This is good for the cost structure of companies,'' said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. ''The Fed will be encouraged on the inflation story. They have taken a lot of heat on the exit strategy. Certainly there is no rush to exit.''
 A report from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed inventories at wholesalers fell in June almost twice as much as forecast, as growing sales helped distributors cut excess supply.
 The 1.7 percent decrease in stockpiles followed a revised 1.2 percent decline in May. Wholesale inventories have had the longest series of declines since records began in 1987. Purchases climbed 0.4 percent in June for a second month.
 ''Another month of positive sales is helping to reduce inventories,'' said Kim Whelan, an economist at Wells Fargo Securities in Charlotte, N.C. ''As inventories decline to levels businesses are more comfortable with, production can start to ramp up.''
 The productivity report showed labor costs decreased at a rate of 5.8 percent, the second consecutive fall and the biggest since 2001. Expenses were down 0.6 percent over the last four quarters, the first decline in five years.
 Compared with the second quarter of 2008, productivity was up 1.8 percent, the most in a year.

GRAPHIC: CHART: U.S. PRODUCTIVITY: Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



312 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Inspector General Questions Value of Some Airport Stimulus Projects

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
A $14.7 million stimulus project to replace an airport on a remote island in Alaska was one of several airport stimulus projects that were questioned in an advisory issued last weekby the inspector general of the Transportation Department. The airport averages only 42 flights a month. 
 The advisory found that the Federal Aviation Administration had awarded $38.5 million to low-priority airport projects of questionable economic merit, and that it had awarded $15 million more to four airports whose operators had been cited in the past for trouble managing federal grants. The aviation agency selected the projects as part of a $1.1 billion stimulus program for improving airports around the nation. 
 Two of the airports the inspector general cited were in Alaska. The $14.7 million project calls for replacing the airport in Ouzinkie, a village of around 170 people, mostly of Russian Aleut ancestry, located on an island about 12 miles north of Kodiak. The second calls for spending $13.9 million to replace the airport in Akiachak, a remote Yup'ik Eskimo village in western Alaska with a population of around 660. 
 The advisory said they were among several low-priority airport projects that were selected in part because the F.A.A. wanted to ''ensure widespread geographic distribution of funds,'' even though that was not a requirement of the stimulus law, the advisory found. 
 The agency has a system to assign priority rankings to airport projects. Usually projects must score at least 41 out of 100 to qualify for airport improvement funds. But the administration set a higher goal for its stimulus money, prioritizing projects that scored 62 or higher. The two Alaskan airport projects each scored only 40, the inspector general found. 
 The Department of Transportation defended the choice of projects, saying that the Alaskan airports qualified for the money under safety provisions of the law and that both villages would be extremely isolated without safe air travel. 
 ''These projects provide airstrips that meet minimum safety standards for the citizens of these Alaskan towns,'' Deputy Transportation Secretary John D. Porcari wrote in a response to the department's inspector general, Calvin L. Scovel III. 
 The inspector general's report came a month after ProPublica and CBS Newsreported that more than $100 million of the airport improvement money was being spent on airports with fewer than one flight an hour. The inspector general -- who also questioned awards to four airports in Delaware, Missouri, Ohio and Washington that did not provide commercial passenger service and had limited flight operations -- recommended that the aviation administration should either show that the projects had economic merit or consider withdrawing the grants. 
 The inspector general plans to conduct a full audit of the program. 

GRAPHIC: MAP: Two remote airports in Alaska are receiving over $28 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



313 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, Some Developers Sign Up Retail Tenants Despite the Downturn

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
In a number of cities in New Jersey seeking to revitalize their downtowns or waterfronts, the formula for successful residential development has been fairly basic: put stores on the ground floor and top them off with apartments of various sizes and types.
 In a recession, however, as curtailed consumer spending shrinks store receipts, finding the right retail tenant for a new building can be a difficult challenge. Nevertheless, at a number of prominent projects nearing completion, the developers say they are having more success in attracting such tenants than they had dared hope. 
 ''This was our big concern,'' said Benjamin D. Jogodnik, an executive with Toll Brothers' City Living division, which is opening a second condominium tower at its Maxwell Place complex on the Hoboken waterfront. 
 ''At the time Wall Street was crashing, and the economy really went haywire, we already had commitments for 95 percent of the residences'' in the 367-unit tower, Mr. Jogodnik said. ''But the retail market turned rotten, awful, godforsaken'' just as he began seeking tenants for 35,000 square feet at the base of the building, across the Hudson River from Midtown Manhattan.
 The quality of retail tenants is crucial to a building's identity and its appeal to buyers, Mr. Jogodnik and other builders say. And state planning officials have long emphasized retailing's importance to a city's ''street life.'' 
 But the retail industry itself has fallen on hard times -- ''even in New Jersey, which has the nation's densest population per square mile and tends to experience fewer peaks and valleys in the demand for retail,'' Bill Miller, a New Jersey real estate specialist with the brokerage firm Jones Lang LaSalle, said.
 Perhaps in line with that, developers at Port Imperial in Weehawken and Gull's Cove in Jersey City, and farther inland at 40 Park in Morristown, said that prospective retail tenants had been driving increasingly hard bargains in the last year. They are insisting, for example, that the developer foot the bill for finishing off store interiors, an expense that in better times the tenant might bear. 
 At Port Imperial, the restaurateur Eddie Duran is to open a second Son Cubano eatery featuring Cuban food, live music and mojitos. Seeking to duplicate the success of his original outpost, in the meatpacking district in Manhattan, Mr. Duran committed to leasing a 6,000-square-foot space from the developer, Roseland Property, more than a year ago. But after the economy withered, he renegotiated to get the builder to do more work on the space, he said.
 Debra Tantleff, the vice president for development at Roseland Property, said nonetheless that she found it easier to make deals with regional restaurants and retailers than with national chains, which have become ''very hesitant'' about expanding and which must be educated about the value of a particular location. 
 At Maxwell Place, Mr. Jogodnik said he was still looking for the right restaurant tenant to surface. But three-fourths of the retail space is now committed -- and Mr. Jogodnik pronounced himself ''pleasantly surprised.'' 
 ''We even got a bank branch -- in the middle of a recession!'' he said. (Later this month, PNC Bank will open one of its new line of ''universal'' branches, in which a full array of bank services is offered at any of six ''work stations,'' and A.T.M.'s are also available.) Annual rent is averaging about $45 a square foot, according to the developer. 
 ''I think it's a flight to quality,'' Mr. Jogodnik said. ''Our residential buyers are mature, affluent, and they are moving into the top building on the waterfront at a time when the average person does not have a lot of discretionary income to spend. That's an appealing customer base for retail tenants.'' 
 Matthew K. Harding, the president of the Levin Management Company, which owns and manages retail real estate all over New Jersey and the Northeast, said that residential-based retailing offers the benefit of ''a captive audience,'' although he said most store operators still prefer free-standing space.
 Service businesses, however, often gravitate to an upscale living environment where residents may be more immune to income fluctuations, Mr. Harding said.
 At Maxwell Place, all of the tenants so far are sellers of services, rather than goods. Besides the bank and a dry cleaner, the list includes a child-care center (Bright Horizons Pre-K, which is taking 10,000 square feet), an international hair salon (Toni & Guy), a men's spa called Hoboken Male, a massage service, and a yoga studio. Also, a cosmetic dentistry practice is opening.
 At Gull's Cove, the developer, Dean S. Geibel of Metro Homes, has also signed up a child-care provider (the Early Learning Academy), which will be next to a Sawa Steakhouse & Sushi Bar. He is close to signing four more contracts and has been seeking ''gym, fitness, hair salon, doctors who specialize -- the same tenants everybody is clamoring after,'' Mr. Geibel said.
 Port Imperial, which sprawls over two miles and three towns and has its own light-rail stop and ferry station, is opening an 80,000-square-foot retail promenade in ground-floor space in three apartment buildings. The complex has an A&P Fresh grocery store, a wine store, and Ben & Jerry's ice cream among its existing tenants, and the retail space is about 80 percent leased, according to Ms. Tantleff. A salon and spa will open in the fall, she said, and talks are under way with a wine bar and a ''doggy day care'' business.
 In Morristown, where Roseland is a primary player in redeveloping the entire downtown area in so-called New Urbanist -- or ''smart growth'' -- fashion, Ms. Tantleff said she has been negotiating with four tenants in the last couple of months for space at 40 Park, a condominium building expected to open next year. Two are national chain retailers that would take 2,500 square feet between them, and two are restaurants -- one a national chain, the other a regional operator. 
 ''We are about to sign leases for 16,000 of the 26,000 square feet of space at 40 Park,'' which fronts on the historic Morristown Green, she said. No lease agreements are close for another 26,000 square feet in the Metropolitan, a rental building also being developed by Roseland across an open courtyard from 40 Park. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Port Imperial in Weehawken, N.J., will include a Son Cubano restaurant. Its owner, Eddie Duran, was able to get more improvements from the builder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%)

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (53%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



314 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Study Shows Rise in Average Borrowing by Students

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Although about a third of the students who earned bachelor's degrees in 2007-8 graduated with no debt, nearly the same as four years earlier, the average amount students borrow has increased, according to a policy brief released Tuesday by the College Board. 
 ''People think students are drowning in debt, and there is a small proportion of students that borrow an exorbitant amount, but most students graduate with a manageable debt load,'' said Sandy Baum, an author of the brief. 
 For bachelor's degree recipients who did borrow, the median loan debt was $19,999, up 5 percent from $18,973 four years earlier, adjusted for inflation. The data, the latest available, come from the federal Department of Education's National Postsecondary Student Aid Study, which is conducted every four years. 
 About 6 percent of those who completed a degree or certificate -- and 10 percent of those who received a bachelor's degree -- borrowed more than $40,000, the brief said. 
 But the brief does not include parents' borrowing, credit-card debt, informal loans from relatives or friends, or loans for graduate school. 
 ''We are asking people to bear more and more of the cost of higher education through borrowing, since neither state spending, need-based aid, or family incomes have kept up with the costs,'' said Lauren Asher, president of the Project on Student Debt, a nonprofit research group. Borrowing varied greatly depending on the type of school attended. For example, 98 percent of those who got degrees at for-profit two-year colleges had an education loan, compared to 38 percent of those who attended public two-year colleges. 
 Over all, the median student loan debt of borrowers in 2007-8 was $15,123, up 11 percent from $13,663 in 2003-4. But debt levels rose far more sharply for students at for-profit colleges, and those earning certificates and two-year degrees. 
 For example, students who received certificates in a for-profit program carried a median debt load of $9,744 in 2007-8, a 30 percent increase from 2003-4. And bachelor's degree recipients in for-profit institutions had a median debt load of $32,653, up 23 percent four years earlier. 
 For-profit colleges acquire much of their revenue from federal aid. The authors of the brief say for-profit colleges had about 7 percent of the nation's undergraduates in 2006, but received about 19 percent of the federal Pell grants. 
 Borrowing did not increase much for those earning bachelor's degrees in public or private colleges. At private four-year colleges, the median loan debt for bachelor's degree recipients was $22,375 in 2007-8, up 5 percent from $21,238 four years earlier. 
 ''How much debt is too much depends on circumstances you can't predict when you're planning for college, like the economy, your health, and whether the field you're training for will continue to expand,'' Ms. Asher said. 
 Given the recession, the next debt study may paint a grimmer picture. ''Of course, everybody is struggling much more,'' Ms. Baum said. ''And private student loans are less available, now that a number of banks that were making those loans are no longer making them, or no longer in business.'' 
 Over all, 41 percent of the students who earned a degree or certificate in the 2007-8 academic year -- and 34 percent of those who received bachelor's degrees -- graduated with no debt. 
 According to the brief, 50 percent of all full-time students took out a federal loan in 2007-8, and 19 percent took out private loans, many of them borrowing through both routes. 
 ''It's important for students to remember the difference between federal and private borrowing,'' said Patricia Steele, the other author of the brief. ''Private borrowing gives you no protection, no forbearance, no income-based repayment.'' 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: INCREASE IN STUDENT DEBTS: Median debt levels for college students rose about 11 percent from 2003-4 to 2007-8, but levels varied significantly depending on the type of institution. (Source: U.S. Department of Education, National Postsecondary Student Aid Study) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



315 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CHINA CHARGES WORKERS
 With Bribery
 China formally charged an Australian citizen and three other employees of the British-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto with commercial bribery and trade secrets infringement in a case that has rocked the global steel industry and created a diplomatic uproar. PAGE A9
 CHECHEN AID WORKERS SLAIN 
 The leader of a charity that helped children who had been physically and emotionally scarred by the conflict in Chechnya was abducted and killed along with her husband, officials said, underscoring the worsening human rights situation there. PAGE A4
 ISRAEL IS WARY OF CALM DAYS
 Israel is flourishing this summer, and one might imagine its people and leaders to be breathing a sigh of relief after nearly a decade of violence and unease. But on every front, Israel is worried that it is living a false calm that could explode at any moment. PAGE A4
 National
 HOMELAND SECRETARY URGES
 Strict Enforcement of Laws
 A day after President Obama announced that legislation to overhaul immigration laws would have to wait until next year, Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, played down the need for change in a speech and took a tough stance on enforcing current immigration laws. PAGE A11
 SURVEY OF COLLEGE DEBT
 Although about a third of the students who earned bachelor's degrees in 2007-8 graduated with no debt at all, nearly the same as four years earlier, the average amount students borrow has increased, according to a policy brief released by the College Board. PAGE A13
 Aspirin and Colorectal Cancer A13
 New York
 SENATOR'S SON WAS HIRED 
 To $120,000 Staff Job
 Weeks after Senator Pedro Espada Jr. helped resolve a standoff in the State Senate by ending his alliance with Republicans and rejoining the Democratic caucus, his son was hired to a senior position on the Democrats' central staff, according to Senate aides. Page A17
 Business
 GERMAN CITY DEBATES
 Its Technology Future
 There is a debate among software firms in Dresden over whether the German city's future lies in manufacturing technology or the intellectual side of the chip-making business. PAGE B1
 SPONSORING EVENTS, QUIETLY
 A new subdued approach to corporate events stems from worries that anything too lavish will suggest the companies are out of touch with the painful financial circumstances of many Americans. But it does not mean the parties have stopped. PAGE B1
 ASIA'S RECOVERY PICKS UP
 Economic reports from Singapore, the Philippines, Australia and China provided the latest fuel for hopes that Asia was on track for a recovery that would outpace that of Europe and the United States, and give the region more economic and political clout. PAGE B4
 CELLPHONE RIVALS REACH DEAL
 Microsoft and Nokia, long adversaries in mobile phone technology, have agreed to a partnership to equip Nokia cellphones with Microsoft Office software. PAGE B7
 VOLT'S TRIPLE-DIGIT MILEAGE
 General Motors said that its Chevrolet Volt extended-range electric vehicle, scheduled for release in 2011, would achieve a fuel rating of 230 miles a gallon in city driving. PAGE B5
 Arts
 HOW 'IDOL' AND ABDUL 
 Decided to Part Ways
 Paula Abdul's departure from ''American Idol'' was the product of months of calculation on her part and that of the show's producers and Fox. But her decision not to return has left bitter feelings on both sides. PAGE C1
 A LIFE NOT EXACTLY HER OWN
 ''A Lifetime Burning,'' a play from Primary Stages starring Jennifer Westfeldt, takes on an increasingly common literary type: the poseur memoirist. PAGE C1 
 A CIVIL WAR, IN PANELS
 Unknown Soldier, a comic book published by Vertigo, an imprint of DC Comics, is about Dr. Lwanga Moses, a man who returns to his native Uganda during its civil war. PAGE C1
 Sports
 A RISING STAR
 Gets a Second Chance
 When he faces the United States on Wednesday in a crucial World Cup qualifying match, the young forward Giovani dos Santos will again be considered the future of Mexican soccer, after a few disappointing years in which he failed to live up to expectations. PAGE B9
 OF TENNIS AND TWINHOOD
 The Bryan brothers, the most accomplished identical twins ever to play as doubles partners in professional tennis, have followed with special interest the birth of Roger Federer's identical twin daughters, and offered some advice. Page B9
 Obituaries
 MERLYN MANTLE, 77
 For 43 years she lived through the glory and the tumult of being married to the New York Yankees great Mickey Mantle. PAGE A18
 Dining
 RECONSIDERING THE MERITS
 Of the Green Bell Pepper
 Food lovers are expected to enjoy everything put in front of them, yet an exception is made for the green bell pepper, the sturdy yet forlorn supermarket vegetable that foodies love to hate. Still, the vegetable has its defenders. PAGE D1
 Fusty Winery, on the Vanguard D1 
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); POLITICS (72%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); CAUCUSES (64%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); COLORECTAL CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (54%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (92%); RIO (NYSE) (92%); RIO (LSE) (92%); RIO (ASX) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (52%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



316 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: China's Trash Problem May Also Be the World's

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: SHENZHEN, China 

 BODY:
In this sprawling metropolis in southeastern China stand the Longgang trash incinerators, two hulking brown buildings erected by a private company. They can be smelled a mile away and pour out so much dark smoke and hazardous chemicals that hundreds of local residents recently staged an all-day sit-in, demanding that the incinerators be cleaner and that a planned third incinerator not be built nearby. 
 After surpassing the United States as the world's largest producer of household garbage, China has embarked on a vast program to build incinerators as landfills run out of space. But the incinerators have become a growing source of toxic emissions that can damage the body's nervous system. 
 And these pollutants, particularly long-lasting substances like dioxin and mercury, are dangerous not only in China, a growing body of atmospheric research based on satellite observations suggests. They float on air currents across the Pacific to North American shores.
 Chinese incinerators can be better. At the other end of Shenzhen from Longgang, no smoke is visible from the towering smokestack of the Baoan incinerator, built by a company owned by the municipal government. Government tests show it emits virtually no dioxin or other pollutants.
 But the Baoan incinerator cost 10 times as much as the Longgang incinerators, per ton of trash-burning capacity.
 The difference between the Baoan and Longgang incinerators lies at the center of a growing controversy in China. Incinerators are being built to widely different standards across the country and even across cities like Shenzhen. For years Chinese government regulators have discussed the need to impose tighter limits on emissions. But they have done little because of a bureaucratic turf war, a Chinese government official and Chinese incineration experts said.
 The Chinese government is struggling to cope with the mountains of trash generated as the country races from poverty to rampant consumerism. Beijing officials warned in June that all the city's landfills would run out of space in five years.
 The governments of several cities with especially affluent, well-educated citizens, including Beijing and Shanghai, are setting pollution standards as strict as Europe's. Despite those standards, protests against planned incinerators broke out this spring in Beijing and Shanghai as well as in Shenzhen.
 Increasingly outspoken residents in big cities are deeply distrustful that incinerators will be built and operated to international standards. ''It's hard to say whether this standard will be reached -- maybe the incinerator is designed to reach this benchmark, but how do we know it will be properly operated?'' said Zhao Yong, a computer server engineer and a neighborhood activist against plans for an incinerator in Beijing.
 Far dirtier incinerators continue to be built in inland cities where residents have shown little awareness of pollution.
 Studies at the University of Washington and the Argonne National Laboratory in Argonne, Ill., have estimated that a sixth of the mercury falling on North American lakes comes from Asia, particularly China, mainly from coal-fired plants and smelters but also from incinerators. Pollution from incinerators also tends to be high in toxic metals like cadmium.
 Incinerators play the most important role in dioxin emissions. Little research has been done on dioxin crossing the Pacific. But analyses of similar chemicals have shown that they can travel very long distances.
 A 2005 report from the World Bank warned that if China built incinerators rapidly and did not limit their emissions, worldwide atmospheric levels of dioxin could double. China has since slowed its construction of incinerators and limited their emissions somewhat, but the World Bank has yet to do a follow-up report.
 Airborne dioxin is not the only problem from incinerators. The ash left over after combustion is laced with dioxin and other pollutants. Zhong Rigang, the chief engineer at the Baoan incinerator here, said that his operation sent its ash to a special landfill designed to cope with toxic waste. But an academic paper published last year by Nie Yongfeng, a Tsinghua University professor and government adviser who sees a need for more incinerators, said that most municipal landfills for toxic waste lacked room for the ash, so the ash was dumped in unequipped landfills.
 Trash incinerators have two advantages that have prompted Japan and much of Europe to embrace them: they occupy much less land than landfills, and the heat from burning trash can be used to generate electricity. The Baoan incinerator generates enough power to light 40,000 households.
 And landfills have their own environmental hazards. Decay in landfills releases large quantities of methane, a powerful global warming gas, said Robert McIlvaine, president of the McIlvaine Company, an energy consulting company based in Northfield, Ill., that calculates the relative costs of addressing disparate environmental hazards. Methane from landfills is a far bigger problem in China than toxic pollutants from incinerators, particularly modern incinerators like Baoan's, he said. While landfill methane can be trapped and burned to generate electricity, virtually none of China's landfills have the equipment.
 China's national regulations still allow incinerators to emit 10 times as much dioxin as incinerators in the European Union; American standards are similar to Europe's. Tightening of China's standards has been stuck for three years in a bureaucratic war between the environment ministry and the main economic planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission, said a Beijing official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the subject publicly.
 The agencies agree that tighter standards on dioxin emissions are needed. They disagree on whether the environment ministry should have the power to stop incinerator projects that do not meet tighter standards, the official said, adding that the planning agency wants to retain the power to decide which projects go ahead.
 Yan Jianhua, a professor at the State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization at Zhejiang University and director of the solid waste treatment expert group in Zhejiang Province, a center of incinerator equipment manufacturing, defended the industry's record on dioxin. He said that households that burn their trash outdoors emit far more dioxin.
 ''Open burning is a bigger problem according to our research,'' Professor Yan said, adding that China really needs better trash collection so that garbage can be disposed of more reliably.
 Both critics and admirers of incinerators call for more recycling and reduced use of packaging to reduce the daily volume of garbage. Even when not recycled, sorted trash is easier for incinerators to burn cleanly, because the furnace temperature can be adjusted more precisely to minimize the formation of dioxin.
 Yet the Chinese public has shown little enthusiasm for recycling. As Mr. Zhong, the engineer at the Baoan incinerator, put it, ''No one really cares.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A truck delivering trash to the Baoan incinerator in Shenzhen, China. The incinerator is relatively clean, but is also costly.
 Zhong Rigang, the chief engineer at the Baoan incinerator, saw little enthusiasm among the public for recycling.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CITIES (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); METEOROLOGY (68%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



317 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Bloomingdale's Takes a Cue From Hollywood Glamour

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR decades, Hollywood has featured Bloomingdale's in films like ''Moscow on the Hudson,'' ''Splash'' and ''The Mirror Has Two Faces.'' Now, Bloomingdale's is returning the favor.
 Bloomingdale's, a division of Macy's Inc., is celebrating the movies in the 2009 version of a major promotion staged each fall. The campaign, intended to stimulate demand during an important shopping season, is called ''Lights, Camera, Fashion'' and is being billed as the most elaborate since Bloomingdale's began a series of themed fall promotions several years ago that has included art and music. 
 The campaign includes ''Bflix,'' five shorts that Bloomingdale's commissioned through an organization called Young Indies Films, created by up-and-coming writers and directors. The shorts will be shown in viewing lounges to be set up in Bloomingdale's stores as well as on its Web site (bloomingdales.com).
 Other elements of the promotion, now getting under way, include star turns by actors like Rose McGowan; cinematic window displays; tie-ins with movie studios like Columbia, Fox Searchlight, Pixar, Universal and Warner Brothers; partnerships with film festivals around the country; a sponsorship by the Turner Classic Movies cable channel; events in stores; film-themed catalogs and shopping bags; free movie tickets, DVDs and movie books; and publicity for coming theatrical films like ''Amelia,'' and ''Taking Woodstock.''
 Because the campaign, which is set to run through mid-October, focuses on film during an economic downturn, it brings to mind the love affair that America had with Hollywood in the Great Depression. And one of the shorts, titled ''Recession Special,'' is about the economic struggles of two 20-something female friends. But the timing was a coincidence, executives at Bloomingdale's said.
 ''I can't say we were psychic,'' said Jack Hruska, executive vice president for creative services, ''but it's clear that this type of entertainment is popular during these times.''
 The music-themed promotion, which took place last fall, ''was extremely well received,'' he added, particularly by younger customers. The movie promotion may appeal more broadly because in addition to featuring current films, it will include salutes to vintage films through the Turner Classic Movies sponsorship.
 ''I would consider this TCM's biggest and highest-profile partnership to date,'' said Tricia Melton, senior vice president for three cable channels, Turner Classic Movies, TBS and TNT, at Turner Broadcasting System in Atlanta, which is part of Time Warner.
 ''The art of film has influenced fashion'' and vice versa, Ms. Melton said, so teaming them up makes sense.
 As for the timing of the promotion, there is ''a yearning'' now for escapism, she acknowledged, as Americans ''look for something to take them into a little bit more of an idealized place.''
 Underlining that is the presence of classic cinema in the promotion. For instance, the bill of fare in the viewing lounges will include clips from movies like ''From Here to Eternity,'' ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' ''Notorious'' and ''Roman Holiday.'' And Bloomingdale's will sell five DVD collections from Turner Classic Movies, featuring films like ''Gigi,'' ''Rebel Without a Cause'' and ''Singin' in the Rain.'' 
 On the other end of the age range are the five shorts that Bloomingdale's commissioned. It. provided clothing and styling for the casts of the low-budget films, which were shot in New York City over a 15-day period, and reimbursed Young Indies Films for postproduction expenses.
 The financial commitment from Bloomingdale's was estimated at about the cost of a full-page advertisement in a metropolitan newspaper. 
 The filmmakers were not required to include Bloomingdale's in the shorts, although two did: ''Recession Special,'' with a brief scene that takes place in a store, and ''My Adventure in Ladies' Undergarments, Fourth Floor,'' which tells how a 6-year-old boy shopping with his mother at Bloomingdale's meets his first love, a lingerie mannequin.
 ''We gave the directors complete creative vision and made it clear these were not commercials,'' said Rose Ganguzza, chief executive at Young Indies Films, which she founded in 2005 to help filmmakers ages 18 to 34.
 She praised Bloomingdale's for being ''willing to help emerging filmmakers'' the same way it ''has a history of supporting emerging talent in the design field.''
 Emily Abt, who wrote and directed ''Recession Special,'' said: ''I was extremely, pleasantly surprised at how hands-off Bloomingdale's was during the creative process. They wanted the stories to come from the filmmakers.''
 Those inspired by the aspiring filmmakers to try their hand at going Hollywood may enjoy another aspect of the promotion: Bloomingdale's will offer demonstrations in stores of Yoostar, a new interactive home entertainment system that lets users include themselves in scenes from films like ''The Godfather'' and ''Some Like It Hot.'' The Yoostar Entertainment Group chose Bloomingdale's and Best Buy as the initial stores to sell Yoostar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Turner Classic Movies windows are part of Bloomingdale's film-themed fall campaign, which includes a catalog with Rose McGowan on the cover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (87%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); WRITERS (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); WEB SITES (53%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%); BLOOMINGDALES.COM (69%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (50%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (69%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (69%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



318 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Puts Volt's Mileage in Triple Digits

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: WARREN, Mich. 

 BODY:
General Motors said Tuesday that its Chevrolet Volt extended-range electric vehicle, scheduled for release in 2011, would achieve a fuel rating of 230 miles a gallon in city driving.
 The rating number, based on methodology drafted by the Environmental Protection Agency, is somewhat abstract, one auto specialist said, given that much of the city driving of electric vehicles will rely solely on the battery charge.
 And as eye-popping as the number was, a rival automaker, Nissan, said last week that its all-electric vehicle, the Leaf, which is scheduled to come out in late 2010, would get 367 m.p.g., using the same E.P.A. standards. 
 Figures for highway driving and combined city and highway use have not been completed for the Volt, but G.M.'s chief executive, Fritz Henderson, told reporters and analysts at a briefing on Tuesday that the car was expected to get more than 100 miles a gallon in combined city and highway driving. 
 ''Our Chevrolet Volt extended-range electric vehicle will achieve unprecedented fuel economy,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''I'm confident that we will be in triple digits.''
 The Volt can travel up to 40 miles on a single battery charge, at which point a small gasoline engine kicks in and starts to recharge the battery. The battery can be also charged in eight hours using a regular electrical outlet, Mr. Henderson said.
 Nearly eight in 10 Americans commute fewer than 40 miles a day, the company said in a statement, citing Department of Transportation data. The mileage calculation for the Volt assumes that most drivers will stay within that range and not need the gasoline engine. 
 ''Depending upon how you use the Volt, it can get mileage approaching that or much less,'' Jack Nerad, executive editorial director of Kelley Blue Book, said. ''It almost becomes an abstract number. If you are the Volt target guy who is driving under 40 miles per day, then theoretically your miles per gallon is infinite.''
 The high mileage figure, though not a meaningful number to many consumers, represents ''a great technical achievement'' for G.M., Mr. Nerad said. 
 ''They would like to take back the banner of technology leader,'' he said. ''This is certainly a shot over the bow of Toyota and Honda and others that they are serious about that.''
 The E.P.A., in a statement Tuesday, said it had not tested the Volt and could not vouch for the accuracy of G.M.'s estimate. But the E.P.A. ''does applaud G.M.'s commitment to designing and building the car of the future -- an American-made car that will save families money, significantly reduce our dependence on foreign oil and create good-paying American jobs,'' the agency said.
 Several rivals, including Chrysler and Ford, are planning plug-ins and electric cars; Toyota is developing a plug-in version of its gas-electric hybrid. 
 But whether the Volt can live up to its billing has been a matter of debate. Some industry analysts note that G.M. has a poor track record of introducing green technology to the market. 
 G.M. is trying to persuade consumers to return to its showrooms after filing for bankruptcy on June 1 and emerging as a reorganized company with fewer brands, models and dealers.
 Mr. Henderson and other G.M. executives met with groups of consumers on Monday to hear their thoughts on the company's product lineup.
 ''We need to communicate what we have,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''The only way we're going to make G.M. great again is to win in the market.''
 Determining the cost to operate battery-powered vehicles is more complex than for those with only gasoline engines. Electricity costs can vary widely, depending on location and even the time of day when a vehicle is charged.
 G.M. said the typical Volt driver would pay $2.75 for electricity to drive 100 miles and that a single overnight charge, for a customer whose utility charges less at off-peak times, could cost as little as 40 cents. Nissan estimated the cost of recharging the Leaf, which has a range of up to 100 miles, at $1 to $3.
 G.M. has previously suggested that the Volt would cost about $40,000, but Mr. Henderson said Tuesday that the price had not been set and that the car would price ''as it comes to market.'' He was also quick to highlight a $7,500 tax credit.
 Nissan says the Leaf will be cheaper than the Volt, in the range of $25,000 to $33,000.
 Another issue that G.M. and Nissan are struggling to figure out is how to accommodate people who live in an urban area or an apartment without a garage and cannot easily recharge an electric car, yet could benefit the most from one.
 ''If you're going to park it on the street, I don't know what to do actually,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''I don't know how to address that situation.''
 Larry Dominique, Nissan's vice president for product planning in the United States, told reporters at an automotive conference last week, ''A lot of those people aren't going to be able to get an electric vehicle initially.''
 Mr. Henderson said the Volt would be a critical part of G.M.'s strategy. ''Having a car that gets triple-digit fuel economy will be a game changer for us.''
 The Volt is expected to be both a so-called halo car to draw consumers to the Chevrolet brand and a technological foundation for future electric models.
 The company has built about 30 Volts so far and is testing them in various conditions.
 Interest has been building in the Volt since it was introduced at auto shows in recent years. But with G.M. now 60 percent government-owned, the car has become a symbol of the company's rebirth after its 40-day trip through bankruptcy.
 Mr. Henderson said most of G.M.'s new products would be either passenger cars or fuel-efficient crossover vehicles. While the company will still build trucks and large sport utilities, the bulk of its investments will go toward smaller vehicles.
 ''I think the fundamental premise of planning for higher fuel prices is the right premise,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fritz Henderson, the head of G.M., with a Volt, which the company expects to get a rating of 230 miles a gallon by the E.P.A. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



319 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Clunker of a Program?

BYLINE: By DAVID SANGER

 BODY:
Just off the main road in Springfield, Vt., a long-depressed Connecticut River town best known for winning the competition as the true home of the cartoon character Homer Simpson, stands a temporary monument to Washington's effort to marry economic stimulus and environmental consciousness.
 The Springfield Auto Mart has pitched an aging car, its windows broken out, into a giant dumpster, prompting honks from drivers who cruise by and see the trunk sticking in the air. It is an advertisement for ''Cash for Clunkers,'' the Federal program that got a $2 billion increase last week after it proved far more successful than anyone predicted in helping clear overcrowded car lots. It probably won't be long before an episode of ''The Simpsons'' is built around prospect of grabbing one of those $4,500 discount vouchers for a new car, paid for by American taxpayers. 
 But as a matter of good economics coated with a patina of environmentalism, does the clunker legislation make sense? And what does it tell us about what happens when Washington has to balance two very different objectives, saving Detroit and trying to change the habits of American consumers? 
 ''You have to give Obama credit for trying to nudge everyone into thinking a bit differently about their economic choices,'' Matthew Kahn, a professor at UCLA's Institute of the Environment. ''But there are some tradeoffs and some losers in the clunkers program that no one wanted to talk about.''
 So far the critics of the clunkers program -- and you will not find many of them in the lot at the Springfield Auto Mart -- have three main complaints. 
 The first is that the program is simply not ambitious enough -- in an effort to make sure American carmakers are among the biggest winners, it set the mileage requirements for newly purchased cars too low. The second is that Congress and the White House are essentially rewarding car owners who in years past chose to buy gas-guzzlers -- violating Mr. Obama's own first rule of environmentalism, which is that polluters should pay.
 And the third question is the one that haunts any big government subsidy: Does it make more sense to pay Americans to buy a new, slightly more efficient car than it does to insulate their homes? Or to go to the health club, in hopes of lowering future health care costs?
 The Clunkers program appears to be designed at least as much for economic stimulus as for its environmentalism effects. The car you trade in must get 18 miles per gallon or less -- but the car you drive off the lot can have a fuel efficiency rating as low as 22 miles per gallon. That is not so impressive considering that car makers are required today to have an average fleet efficiency of 25 miles per gallon, and the White House has proposed rules to raise that number to 35.5 mpg by 2016. 
 Even so, the encouraging news is that car-buyers are going for high-efficiency new vehicles -- not only much more efficient, but clean-burning, too, than the older cars that are coming in. The top five models purchased in the week ending Aug. 5 included three Toyotas -- the Corolla, the Prius and the Camry -- along with the Honda Civic and the Hyundai Elantra.
 Just a few months ago Senators Dianne Feinstein of California, Charles Schumer of New York and Susan Collins of Maine -- two Democrats and a rare New England Republican -- introduced an alternative clunkers bill that would have required consumers to buy far more fuel-efficient cars if they wanted the Federal subsidy. But it went nowhere, and all three backed down from that position as the Senate rushed to keep the program going last week. 
 ''What we ended up with,'' said one senior Obama administration official, who would not speak on the record because he was being critical of his own administration's environmental bona fides, ''is a program in which you trade in old clunkers for new clunkers.'' Less discussed is the second critique of the program: It rewards drivers who chose to buy gas guzzlers a few years back, but not those who spent more to buy fuel-sippers (although in recent years those who purchased efficient new hybrids got generous tax credits).
 But the White House argues that there is no contradiction here -- older cars contribute disproportionately to global warming, so any stimulus program that gets them off the road is a win for everyone.
 The third concern about the clunkers program is that it is all about cars -- and nothing else. As the House and Senate proved, this is a politically popular program, but there was little debate about whether the money could be better spent on other environmental incentives.
 Of course, there are other Federal programs to encourage fuel efficiency. Others, like grants for making homes cheaper to heat and cool, have been criticized for inefficiently allocating resources.
 For 2009 and 2010, Congress has approved special tax credits for energy efficient windows and other upgrades to existing homes, up to $1,500. And there are credits for up to 30 percent of the cost of solar energy systems or residential windmills.
 But there are limits: as though to prove that the government is a kill-joy, the solar rules stipulate that ''the credit is not available for expenses for swimming pools or hot tubs.'' 
 So enjoy cruising around Springfield in that new Ford F-150 truck, which qualifies for the Cash-for-Clunkers subsidy under the government's rules. But after a long day on the highway, don't expect the American taxpayers to help ease you into that solar-powered soak on the back deck. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



320 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Insurers' Survey Points to Big Bills as Health Care Problem

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
A patient in Illinois was charged $12,712 for cataract surgery. Medicare pays $675 for the same procedure. In California, a patient was charged $20,120 for a knee operation that Medicare pays $584 for. And a New Jersey patient was charged $72,000 for a spinal fusion procedure that Medicare covers for $1,629.
 The charges came out of a survey sponsored by America's Health Insurance Plans in which insurers were asked for some of the highest bills submitted to them in 2008. 
 The group, which represents 1,300 health insurance companies, said it had no data on the frequency of such high fees, saying that to its knowledge no one had studied that. But it said it did the survey in part to defend against efforts by the Obama administration to portray certain industry practices as a major part of the nation's health care problems. 
 The health insurers, saying they felt unfairly vilified, gave the report to The New York Times before posting it online on Tuesday, explaining that they wanted to show that doctors' fees are part of the health care problem.
 The group said it had used Medicare payments for comparison because Medicare was so familiar and payments are, on average, about 80 percent of what private insurers pay. 
 ''It's the wild, wild West when it comes to prices of anything in the U.S. health care system, whether for a doctor visit or for hospital charges,'' said Jonathan S. Skinner, a health economist at Dartmouth.
 The situation is so irrational, said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton, that it simply cannot go on. ''We will not emerge out of this decade with this lunacy,'' Dr. Reinhardt said, adding, ''You worry about credit card charges, you scream for consumer protection -- why not scream for it here?''
 But Dr. Robert M. Wah, a spokesman for the American Medical Association, said there was another side to the story: insurers' low payments to doctors who enter into contracts with them and the doctors' difficulties, in many cases, in getting paid at all. That is why, he said, doctors may simply abandon insurance plans. Then patients end up with extra fees because they have to go outside their networks.
 Karen M. Ignagni, president and chief executive of America's Health Insurance Plans, had a different view, saying: ''As we think about the health care debate, what's been talked about is, What are the cost-sharing levels? What are the premium levels? How much do health plans pay? No politician has asked how much is being charged.''
 Some of the health care legislation being considered by Congress would require insurers to increase their disclosure to patients of possible out-of-network costs. And President Obama has proposed changing how Medicare sets its payments to doctors and hospitals. But there are no specific proposals to control prices for out-of-network medical services.
 In the survey, patients were insured but saw doctors who were out of their networks of care providers. Those doctors have no obligation to accept the out-of-network fee from insurers as payment in full. Patients may then be accountable for the balance. 
 ''That is what generally happens,'' said Susan Pisano, a spokeswoman for the health insurers' group. ''The consumer is responsible.''
 The survey looked at 10 companies that insure patients in the 30 most populous states; the companies provided some of the highest bills from 2008. Researchers excluded two types of charges that were likely to be erroneous: those that were greater than 10,000 percent of Medicare's fees for a procedure, or more than 2,000 percent of Medicare's fees and also more than 50 percent higher than the next-highest bill for the same procedure. 
 State laws protecting patients from getting stuck with medical bills in excess of their normal deductibles or co-payments vary widely, said Betsy M. Pelovitz, the group's vice president for state policy. And, she said, the laws often offer little or no protection to patients who seek care outside their insurance networks. 
 In New York, patients with managed-care insurers cannot be asked to pay more than the applicable co-payment, deductible or co-insurance for an ambulance regardless of whether the provider is in or out of their network. In New Jersey, hospital emergency rooms treating Medicaid managed-care patients must accept Medicaid payments as payment in full and cannot bill patients extra. In Connecticut, a state law says it is ''unfair trade practice'' for medical providers to ask patients to pay more than a deductible or co-payment for services covered by their insurance.
 But in general, patients hit with high bills from out-of-network doctors and hospitals may have little recourse, said Leslie Moran, senior vice president of the New York Health Plan Association. ''When patients dig in their heels and say, 'No, I'm not going to pay it,' it sometimes goes to collection,'' she said.
 While there is no way of knowing how often doctors submit exorbitant bills, insurers tell America's Health Insurance Plans that they see such bills ''all the time, every day,'' Ms. Pisano said.
 The New York Health Plan Association provided more examples. In testimony at a state hearing in October, it told of a Long Island surgeon who charged $23,500 for an emergency appendectomy. The patient's insurer paid its out-of-network fee of $4,629. The surgeon demanded the balance or said he would force the patient to pay. The insurance company paid the bill.
 Patients who receive unexpected bills may not know what to do. That happened to Charles Bacchi's mother. Mr. Bacchi, executive vice president of the California Association of Health Plans, said his mother was admitted to a hospital that had just dropped its association with her insurer.
 Mr. Bacchi's mother, who spent less than a week in the hospital, received a bill for nearly $90,000 and was told that her plan would pay only a small part of it. Mr. Bacchi said she was terrified and hid the bill. ''She thought the entire family savings would go up in smoke,'' Mr. Bacchi said.
 When his mother finally told him about the bill, Mr. Bacchi intervened, and eventually the matter was settled by the hospital and the insurance company.
 No one intervened for Maria Davis, though, when her son fell and banged his mouth. Ms. Davis, a respiratory therapist in Miller Place on Long Island, took 4-year-old Ryan to an emergency room. ''He was bleeding a lot, and it looked like he had a bad cut on the inside of his mouth,'' she said. 
 After a long wait, she said, a doctor said he would put in stitches but seemed uncomfortable treating the agitated child. When he said he could call a plastic surgeon, Ms. Davis agreed.
 The plastic surgeon, Dr. Gregory J. Diehl of Port Jefferson, ''was very nice, very gentle, very kind,'' Ms. Davis said. He put in three stitches, and Ms. Davis assumed her insurer, UnitedHealthcare, would cover the bill.
 It did not. The bill was $6,000 -- $300 for the emergency room consultation and $5,700 for putting in the stitches. The Davises paid their deductible of $350 and waited.
 After the insurer paid $2,024.80, Dr. Diehl cut his bill by $2,100 and billed the Davises for the balance, $1,525.20. He did not return calls to his office.
 So far, the Davises have not paid. ''I told them I thought it was an unreasonable amount,'' said Jonathan Davis, Ryan's father.
 ''We have gotten several letters, and they have gotten more than a little threatening,'' Mr. Davis said. Had he known the doctor would charge $6,000, he said, ''we may have looked for another doctor.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria Davis with sons Ryan and Jack, left. Ryan fell and got three stitches
 she got a $6,000 bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); CATARACTS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); CONSUMER LAW (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



321 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: SHIITES IN IRAQ SHOW RESTRAINT AS SUNNIS ATTACK

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed reporting from Basra, Karbala, Diyala and Baghdad.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Shiite clerics and politicians have been successfully urging their followers not to retaliate against a fierce campaign of sectarian bombings, in which Shiites have accounted for most of the 566 Iraqis killed since American troops pulled out of Iraq's cities on June 30.
 ''Let them kill us,'' said Sheik Khudair al-Allawi, the imam of a mosque bombed recently. ''It's a waste of their time. The sectarian card is an old card and no one is going to play it anymore. We know what they want, and we'll just be patient. But they will all go to hell.''
 The patience of the Shiites today is in extraordinary contrast to Iraq's recent past. With a demographic majority of 60 percent and control of the government, power is theirs for the first time in a thousand years. Going back to sectarian war is, as both Sunni extremists and Shiite victims know, the one way they could lose all that, especially if they were to drag their Sunni Arab neighbors into a messy regional conflict.
 It is a far cry from 2006, when a bomb set off at the sacred Shiite shrine in Samarra killed no one, but ignited a fury at the sacrilege that set off two years of sectarian warfare. 
 This year the equally important shrine of Kadhimiya in Baghdad, the tomb of two revered Shiite imams, was attacked by suicide bombers twice, in January and April. More than a hundred people were killed, but there was no retaliation.
 Bombing Shiite mosques has become so common that Sunni extremists have been forced to look elsewhere to provoke outrage -- much as they did in 2005, when Shiites similarly showed patience when attacked. They have attacked groups of Shiite refugees waiting for food rations, children gathering for handouts of candy, lines of unemployed men hoping for a day's work, school buses, religious pilgrimages, weddings, marketplaces and hospitals in Shiite areas and even the funerals of their victims from the day before.
 Iraq's Shiites, counseled by their political and religious leaders and habituated to suffering by centuries as the region's underclass, have refused to rise to the bait -- for now. Instead, they have made a virtue of forbearance and have convinced their followers that they win by not responding with violence. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has brought once violent Shiite militiamen into the fold, while the Shiites' spiritual leader, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, has forbidden any sort of violent reprisals.
 ''I wouldn't look for this to become a repeat of 2006,'' said the American ambassador to Iraq, Christopher R. Hill. ''It's very different.''
 No longer are there tit-for-tat bombings of Sunni mosques after Shiite mosques are hit.
 Now, even some of the most violent of Shiite extremists of past years are clamoring to join the political process. Last week, the Maliki government announced that Asa'ib al-Haq, one of the so-called special groups that continued to fight after other Shiites had stopped in 2008, now had renounced violence against Iraqis.
 To some extent, the recent attacks against Shiites were expected, as many Iraqis braced for a general increase in violence after the American military withdrawal from towns and cities on June 30. On Monday, several bombs went off around Baghdad, and two huge truck bombs destroyed an entire village of Shiites from the Shabak minority near Mosul, in the north.
 Ten days earlier, five mosques were bombed during Friday Prayer in poor areas around Baghdad, where followers of the anti-American cleric, Moktada al-Sadr, are numerous. In the bloodiest attack, at the Shoroufi mosque in the Shaab area, a car bomb hit an outdoor prayer area, killing 41 of Mr. Sadr's followers.
 More mosque bombings followed during Friday Prayer last week, and on Tuesday night, at least eight people were killed in twin bombings at a cafe and a mosque in the predominantly Shiite Al Amin area of the capital.
 Sheik Allawi, the imam at Al Shoroufi, recounted the lesson another preacher gave a week after the bombing there. ''He reminded them of Imam Hussein and drew a connection between his suffering and the Shoroufi bombing,'' he said. ''Blood will spill on the ground until the Mahdi shows up.''
 Shiite Islam is all about patience and the long view, waiting for the hidden 12th imam, the Mahdi, to return and redeem the faith's followers. And it is also about enduring suffering, as illustrated by the annual and always passionate commemoration of the martyrdom of Imam Hussein, the seventh-century Shiite saint, when many flagellate themselves in bloody displays of regret.
 Anger after such bombings is common, but now it is more likely to be directed against failures by Iraqi security forces, not against Sunnis. 
 In 2006, people had little confidence in the security forces to protect them, so they turned to the militias instead. ''The Iraqi Army is not the one people worried about three years ago,'' said Ambassador Hill. ''They were considered part of the problem a few years ago; now it's an army that is broadly understood not to be engaged in sectarian violence.''
 Militias got a bad name during that period, even among the people they were supposed to protect. Many were blamed for extorting money from their neighborhoods and carrying out kidnappings for profit. ''The time of the militias is over and they will not come back,'' said Sheik Abdullah al-Shimary, leader of the Shiite Al Shimer tribe in Diyala. ''There are security forces now, and they are the ones who have the responsibility to control our areas.''
 Another important factor is the influence the Shiite clerical leadership has over its followers, with Grand Ayatollah Sistani and other members of the howza, the top religious leadership, condemning any sort of violent reprisals.
 ''Sayid Moktada al-Sadr has told us in his instructions that we have to follow the orders of the howza,'' said Sheik Jalil al-Sarkhey, the deputy head of the Sadr office in Sadr City, the huge Shiite slum in Baghdad. ''We are all agreed; there will be no spilling of Iraqi blood.''
 Another important difference has been the rejection by Sunni politicians of attacks on the Shiites, which was rarely heard in 2006. ''The Sunnis openly and clearly are condemning these attacks,'' said Ghassan al-Atiyyah, a political analyst who directs the Iraq Foundation for Democracy and Development. ''And they're all emphasizing that this is trying to stir up sectarian violence.''
 Majid al-Asadi, a cleric in Najaf, said, ''We will not react against these efforts to ignite sectarian conflict because that is exactly what our enemies want and not what our Iraqi people want.''
 Still, some Shiite leaders warn that their patience will not be infinite. ''As human beings, every person has his limits,'' Sheik Sarkhey said. ''So we ask God to protect us from any sectarian war.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shiites prayed at a service in the Sadr City district of Baghdad in June. The area has been a frequent target of Sunni extremists.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In one of many recent attacks on Shiites, a bomb hit a mosque in the Shaab district of Baghdad on July 31, killing 41 people.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI AL-SAADI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); REFUGEES (69%); CONFECTIONERY (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



322 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: As Health Care Debate Rages, Obama Takes to the Stump

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JACKIE CALMES; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama tried on Tuesday to defuse fears about his plan to overhaul the nation's health care system, an issue at the center of one of the fiercest public-policy debates in decades, telling a friendly audience in New Hampshire that a lot of misinformation is being spread.
 ''If you like your health-care plan, you can keep your health-care plan,'' the president told a gathering in Portsmouth, N.H. ''You will not be waiting in any lines. This is not about putting the government in charge of your health insurance.''
 ''For all the chatter and the yelling and the shouting and the noise, what you need to know is this: If you don't have health insurance, you will finally have quality, affordable options, once we pass reform. If you do have health insurance, we will make sure that no insurance company, or a government bureaucrat, gets between you and the care that you need.'' 
 The president went on, to applause. ''And we will do this without adding to our deficit over the next decade, largely by cutting out the waste and insurance company giveaways in Medicare that aren't making any of our seniors healthier,'' he said.
 The president said some Republicans had been helpful, and that he hoped to achieve health care reform on a bipartisan basis, ''but the most important thing is getting it done for the American people.''
 The New Hampshire event was part of a campaign to fight questionable but potentially damaging charges that the president's vision would inevitably lead to ''socialized medicine,'' ''rationed care'' and even forced euthanasia for the elderly.
 The tone of the national debate over the future of health care has become increasingly emotional, even bitter, as reflected in comments by lawmakers across the political specrtum. 
 In introducing a Web site to defend the president's proposals, White House officials were tacitly acknowledging a difficult reality: they are suddenly at risk of losing control of the public debate over a signature issue for Mr. Obama and are now playing defense in a way they have not since last year's campaign. 
 Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont, an independent who is one of the most liberal members in either House, said on Tuesday that ''the Republicans are the party of do-nothingism, and because of them it is very hard to move forward.''
 But Mr. Sanders said in an interview on MSNBC that ''frankly, the Democrats have not handled this as clearly and effectively as they might have.''
 A different perspective was offered by Representative Peter King, a Long Island Republican far to the right of Mr. Sanders. Mr. King said it was quite understandable that many Americans are not enthusiastic about ''the radical type of reform that President Obama's talking about.''
 The health care system should be changed ''incrementally'' rather than by major surgery, Mr. King said in another interview on MSNBC. The congressman said he thought the White House had made a tactical error in its approach on health care. ''It may not be perfect,'' he said, conceding that Americans ''may have problems with it.''
 ''But it's not the rabid-type issue that had to be solved by Aug. 1 of this year, the way President Obama was saying,'' Mr. King said.
 And Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, a Republican-turned-Democrat, faced a crowd of emotional constituents in Lebanon, Pa. One participant drew loud applause when he said illegal immigrants should not be covered (Mr. Specter agreed), and another complained that the legislation was as complicated ''as a Russian novel.''
 Mr. Specter said the federal government has a ''social compact'' with the American people to ''take care of people who need some help.'' He pledged again not to vote for something that would add to the budget deficit, and he tried to reassure the crowd that people who are happy with their present health insurance do not have to worry about losing it.
 ''So far, no bill has passed the Congress,'' Mr. Specter noted. ''In the House of Representatives, five committees have passed bills, but the House has not passed a bill. In the Senate, we're still working on a bill, trying to get bipartisanship.''
 ''I know the American people are sick and tired of Republicans and Democrats fighting, and the American people would like to see some bipartisanship and coming together in the public interest,'' the senator said, in an appeal for calm that was not entirely successful.
 President Obama, speaking at a summit of North American leaders in Mexico on Monday, sounded an optimistic note, predicting that ''the American people are going to be glad that we acted to change an unsustainable system so that more people have coverage.''
 But aides to Mr. Obama said the rapidly escalating threat to his health care plans had led him to order them to come up with a crisper message.
 And Democratic Party officials enlisted in the fight by the White House acknowledged in interviews that the growing intensity of the opposition to the president's health care plans -- within the last week likened on talk radio to something out of Hitler's Germany, lampooned by protesters at Congressional town-hall-style meetings and vilified in television commercials -- had caught them off guard and forced them to begin an August counteroffensive.
 In the process, the administration has had a harder time getting across the themes it wanted to strike in this period: that the current system is unsustainable and that Mr. Obama's plan holds concrete benefits for people who already have health insurance as well as for those who do not.
 ''We all had a good sense that some of this was going to take place,'' said Brad Woodhouse, the communications director for the Democratic National Committee. ''To be fair, I think we were probably a little surprised -- just a little -- at the use of swastikas and the comparisons to Adolf Hitler and the Third Reich that even Rush Limbaugh has fanned the flames on. And we were a little surprised at the mob mentality.'' (Mr. Woodhouse's use of the phrase ''mob mentality'' was itself part of the Democratic effort to paint opponents speaking out against the plan as part of an unruly but organized effort.)
 For some of Mr. Obama's supporters, the newly galvanized opposition to his proposed policies provided a troubling flashback to the successful effort to stop President Bill Clinton's similarly ambitious plans 16 years ago -- a fight Mr. Obama's aides had studied carefully to avoid making the same fatal mistakes.
 White House officials say such fears are unwarranted, arguing that the conservative protests are getting outsize coverage on cable news. ''Don't associate loud with effective,'' Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said in an interview, adding that he detected no anxiety from supportive lawmakers in politically vulnerable districts. ''What is coming across is a lot of noise and a lot of heat without a lot of light.''
 And White House officials say their August counteroffensive is a break from the Clinton approach, which is now viewed as having failed to adequately address critics.
 Mr. Obama will take the lead this week as he continues a series of public meetings to counter the opposition, events White House officials hope will offer a high-profile opportunity to confront and rebut critics.
 As part of the effort, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the House majority leader, wrote an opinion article in USA Today onMonday calling conservative protests at Congressional town-hall-style meetings ''un-American'' for ''drowning out opposing views.'' (That prompted a swift rebuke from the House minority leader, Representative John A. Boehner, among other Republicans.)
 New television commercials disputing the conservative attacks are in the works, Mr. Woodhouse said, and allied members of Congress have been sent home for the August break with a set of poll-tested talking points intended to shift the focus to the administration's advertised benefits of the plan from the scary situations opponents have laid out.
 ''There's a whole set of rumors that the old playbook would tell you not to do anything about because you draw attention,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House deputy communications director. ''The lesson we've learned is you ignore these rumors at your peril, and the right answer is to take them head on in as big a way as possible.''
 It was only weeks ago that Mr. Obama was pressing both the House and the Senate to complete work on their versions of health legislation before recessing for the summer, a goal that went unmet as divisions erupted among Democrats as well as between the two parties.
 After getting much of what he wanted on high-risk initiatives like the economic stimulus package and bailouts of banks and auto companies, Mr. Obama had yet to face the full force of conservative opposition to his policies. Some supporters now wonder whether his earlier glide path left him unprepared for the sudden surge of opposition from conservative groups, which have found a rallying point on health care.
 ''The expectation was that things have gotten so bad in the last 16 years that there would be consensus on the need to act this time,'' said Howard Paster, who was Mr. Clinton's chief lobbyist in 1993. ''That was a mistake, that assumption.''
 Mr. Obama's team won early, high marks for diverging from the Clinton approach, specifically by emphasizing the need to control costs and improve coverage for those who are already insured instead of making the same moral-duty argument Mr. Clinton had about the need to cover the uninsured.
 Yet once Congress started filling in the details this summer and its analysts began pricing the House and Senate packages, the estimates of the government's cost caused sticker shock again.
 And once again that drew taxpayers' attention to the main reason for those costs: covering the uninsured, through more Medicaid spending and subsidies for people to buy insurance and small businesses to provide it.
 That helped conservatives who had been struggling to gain traction on health care to speak to a constituency that has managed to gain significant anti-Obama attention this year, the fiscally hawkish ''tea party'' activists opposed to the president's spending. They have dismissed Mr. Obama's promises that his plan will be fully paid for through offsetting spending cuts or increased taxes, and have cast the plan as a costly takeover of health care by the government.
 ''I think the combination of spending a trillion dollars that we don't have and another rushed process really triggered this,'' said Matt Kibbe, the president of the conservative group FreedomWorks. ''People started paying attention.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); MEDICARE (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AGING (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BERNIE SANDERS (69%); PETER T KING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



323 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Hopes New Lineup Brings Back Excitement

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: WARREN, Mich. 

 BODY:
General Motors is focusing on smaller cars and more fuel-efficient vehicles to lure back consumers who had given up on the struggling auto giant.
 On Tuesday, G.M. showed off a lineup that was decidedly leaner and greener than what the company offered in the months leading to its bankruptcy filing on June 1.
 And just as G.M. has shed jobs, plants and operations, the company has plans to shrink its portfolio of gas-guzzling trucks and big cars in favor of smaller vehicles. 
 ''Everything we are doing is consistent with the viability plan turned into the government,'' said Thomas G. Stephens, G.M.'s vice chairman for global product development. ''And everything we do has to be best-in-class in fuel economy.''
 The government has committed about $50 billion this year to rescue G.M. from financial collapse. In return, American taxpayers hold a 60 percent stake in the company.
 But while the Obama administration helped clean up G.M.'s balance sheet, the company's management team is faced with the tall task of bringing some excitement back to dealer showrooms.
 G.M.'s sales in the United States have plunged 37 percent this year, and its market share has fallen just below 20 percent, a far cry from the company's glory days in the 1960s, when it held a 50 percent share of the American market and dominated competitors. As part of its effort to reverse that trend and return to profitability, G.M. also began selling new cars and trucks on the auction Web site eBay on Tuesday. 
 G.M. executives found out just how far the company had fallen on Monday, when more than 100 consumers -- some of them vocal critics of the company -- were invited to test its latest products.
 The event, held at G.M.'s proving grounds outside Detroit, was as humbling for some executives as the months of debate over the company's federal bailout.
 ''I learned a lot,'' said Fritz Henderson, who became G.M.'s chief executive in April. ''The awareness of our products was painfully, almost pitifully low.''
 Mr. Henderson has vowed to change both the perception of G.M.'s vehicles and make them more competitive with models from other auto companies.
 ''People are looking at us with a healthy degree of skepticism,'' Mr. Henderson said.
 The company's core brands -- Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC -- will be broadened to appeal to younger buyers who value fuel economy and technology more than size and horsepower.
 The biggest change is coming at Buick. Once the bastion of large, four-door sedans marketed to consumers older than 60, the brand is getting a decidedly youthful makeover.
 Buick's largest car, the Lucerne, will be discontinued. Within three years, the brand will add a compact car, a midsize sedan and two small crossover vehicles that combine the attributes of a car and a sport utility vehicle.
 Chevrolet will also get two new cars -- the tiny Spark and the compact Cruze -- and the GMC brand may add a small crossover that mimics the boxy styling of vehicles produced by Toyota, Nissan and Hyundai.
 G.M.'s strategy is similar to that employed by its largest domestic rival, the Ford Motor Company -- the only American automaker that has not needed federal money to survive.
 Ford is introducing a series of passenger cars that it hopes will ease its long dependence on pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s for profits.
 Now that G.M. has come through bankruptcy with far less debt and a tighter cost structure, analysts said the company must move quickly to recast its image and products. 
 ''G.M. has no choice at this point,'' said Ron Harbour, head of the automotive division of the consulting firm Oliver Wyman. ''They have got to convince people that their cars are better and their brands are cool.''
 The company's restructuring plan calls for cutting the number of models in G.M. dealerships to 34, from 48, by next year. Several of the models will disappear when the Saturn, Pontiac, Hummer and Saab brands are closed or sold.
 G.M. executives conceded that the company could no longer afford any laggards in its new lineup.
 ''We have to do great cars no matter what segment we enter,'' said Mr. Stephens, who succeeded Robert A. Lutz as G.M.'s product czar.
 G.M.'s new board is pressing management to start increasing sales again after many years of decline. That will prove difficult in the current economic environment, in which vehicle sales have sunk to their lowest point in more than 25 years.
 But the company has some promising entries already entering the market.
 The Chevrolet Equinox crossover vehicle has been a hot seller, as has the Camaro muscle car. At Cadillac, a sharply restyled version of the SRX is winning raves from some consumers, even as its angular appearance polarizes others.
 ''You might call the design aggressive, where I call it distinctive,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''Its looks are purely Cadillac. When you drive up, everybody knows what it is.''
 Design will play a critical role in G.M.'s comeback, particularly when it begins introducing smaller Buicks that could compete with the company's Chevy products.
 Mr. Stephens said that Buick would be focusing on owners of some foreign luxury brands like Honda's Acura division. The new Buicks will be packed with new technology and upscale materials, which G.M. hopes will allow the brand to command higher prices.
 But G.M. has run into trouble in the past when its brands overlapped and too many of its models looked alike.
 ''Ford has already started down this road, and the competition is hardly letting up,'' said Joseph Phillippi, a principal in the firm AutoTrends Consulting. ''G.M. has obviously taken a lot of costs out. But lower costs aren't going to help them sell cars that people aren't crazy about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The General Motors executives Thomas G. Stephens, left, and Robert A. Lutz have tried to help reinvigorate the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MARKET SHARE (88%); SEDANS (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



324 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Senator Goes Face to Face With Dissent

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Sean D. Hamill contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LEBANON, Pa. 

 BODY:
They got up before dawn in large numbers with angry signs and American flag T-shirts, and many were seething with frustration at issues that went far beyond overhauling health care.
 More than 1,000 people showed up here Tuesday morning in this largely Republican town in central Pennsylvania for a town-hall-style meeting with Senator Arlen Specter, though the auditorium could seat only 250. Like many of the dozens of such meetings held by members of Congress over the last few weeks, this one was punctuated with rowdy moments, and interviews with many of those who showed up made it clear just how much underlying dissent motivated them.
 Many said the Obama administration's plans for a new health care system were just another example of a federal government that had again gone too far, just as it had, they said, with the economic stimulus, the auto industry bailout and the cap-and-trade program. 
 ''This is about the dismantling of this country,'' Katy Abram, 35, shouted at Mr. Specter, drawing one of the most prolonged rounds of applause. ''We don't want this country to turn into Russia.''
 Ms. Abram described herself as a stay-at-home mother from Lebanon, and in many ways she was representative of the almost entirely white and irritable crowd, most of whom were from the area. Based on interviews with several dozen people who attended, it appeared that about 80 percent of those who showed up opposed the planned changes to the health care system.
 Many said they heard about the meeting from e-mail alerts sent by conservative and antitax groups like the Constitutional Organization of Liberty and the Berks County Tea Party, along with Mr. Specter's own mailings. Some voiced sentiments that were heard recently on conservative radio shows, though those interviewed said they resented being characterized as mobs or puppets of lobbyists, emphasizing that they represented only themselves. ''I demand my voice!'' read one sign outside. ''You work for me,'' was a refrain yelled inside the auditorium.
 At the same time, those who favor a health care overhaul, urged to attend by unions and liberal groups like the Service Employees International Union and Health Care for America Now, said they were motivated by concern that the government might not go far enough. Only the government, they say, can take on a problem as big as health care.
 But in the end, their ability to ask a question at the meeting depended on how early they got in line. Many of the union members who showed up to support health care reform did not arrive early enough to get into the auditorium at the Harrisburg Area Community College, and thus were largely not represented among the 30 questioners called on by Mr. Specter. It was the angriest people who got in line first.
 ''All union members to the back, I got here early,'' one man in the line told latecomers.
 John Stahl, chairman of the Berks County Tea Party, a local branch of conservatives, was one of those who helped recruit opponents of change to the event. A former truck salesman, Mr. Stahl, 65, said he was laid off about 18 months ago. Since May, his group has organized four protests in the state opposing taxes and the stimulus plan, but none have attracted the crowds like health care, he said. 
 ''We believe there are several issues out there that leave the existence of the Republic at risk,'' he added, ''not the least of which is this Obamacare.''
 The meeting came just over a week after Mr. Specter and Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius were booed and jeered at a meeting in Philadelphia on Aug. 3.
 Hoping to avoid similar unrest, Mr. Specter tried to control the event by imposing a rigid format. Only the first 30 people who wanted to speak were given cards allowing them to ask questions. He allotted 90 minutes for the meeting and was careful to let people speak their piece. He gave succinct answers before moving on to the next question. Because of concerns about a potentially unruly crowd, the Capitol Police sent three extra officers from Washington.
 In addition, Mr. Specter and his staff controlled the microphones. And he stood face to face with his questioners, a move, he said later in an interview, that he had hoped might make it harder for people to scream at him. 
 But for all his efforts, tempers boiled over 15 minutes into the meeting. Standing two feet from the senator, Craig Anthony Miller, 59, shouted, ''You are trampling on our Constitution!'' A half-dozen security people quickly swarmed but refrained from touching him as Mr. Specter, raising his voice, said sternly, ''Wait a minute! Wait a minute!'' He said the man had the right to leave.
 Mr. Miller, shaking, stood his ground. He said he was furious that the senator's staff had limited the questioning. ''One day,'' he said to loud applause, ''God is going to stand before you, and he's going to judge you!''
 Mr. Specter shouted into his microphone that demonstrators disrupting the proceedings would be thrown out.
 The meetings come at a vulnerable moment for Mr. Specter, who faces what could be a tight Democratic primary next spring. While those on the right excoriated him at the meeting for betrayal because he switched parties in April, he has also been attacked by his opponent in the primary, Representative Joe Sestak, as being a Republican aligned with former President George W. Bush.
 But most of those who spoke Tuesday seemed unlikely to vote in the Democratic primary. Many seemed concerned about issues that are either not in the health care legislation or are peripheral to the debate in Washington -- abortion, euthanasia, coverage of immigrants, privacy.
 ''It says plainly right there they want to limit the type of care elderly can get,'' said Laurel Tobias, an office manager from Lebanon, referring to a bill in the House. ''They are talking about killing people.''
 Standing by a bus that takes her from meeting to meeting, Amy Menefee, spokeswoman for Americans for Prosperity, said the real issue was the expansion of government favored by President Obama. Proponents of the overhaul voiced the opposite fear, also citing larger issues at stake.
 ''This isn't just about health care,'' said Carolyn Doric of Harrisburg, ''it's about political power and a means to regain political power.'' Ms. Doric did not get into the meeting.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about a town hall meeting on health care in Pennsylvania presided over by Senator Arlen Specter described remarks by one attendee, Katy Abram, incorrectly. When she told Senator Specter, ''This is about the dismantling of this country,'' she was speaking in a forceful voice, but she was not shouting. (At another point in her comments, she did shout.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''You are trampling on our Constitution!'' Craig Anthony Miller shouted at Senator Arlen Specter at a meeting in Lebanon, Pa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Nancy Gusti, 73, top, supported Senator Arlen Specter on Tuesday, while Richard Hoke, above left, and Robert Nasuti argued.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
After a loud, rowdy meeting with 250 people in an auditorium, Mr. Specter exited to an even larger crowd gathered outside.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) CHART: Frequently Asked Questions: Answers to some of the questions that have been asked at public meetings on health care.(Sources: Congressional bills
 PolitiFact)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BAILOUTS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); LABOR UNIONS (65%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009



325 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Playing To the Middle

BYLINE: By CINTRA WILSON

 BODY:
J.C. PENNEY has broken free of its suburban parking area to invade Herald Square, and the most frequent question on New York's collective lips seems to be: Why?
 Why would this perennially square department store bother to reanimate itself in Manhattan -- in the sleekest, scariest fashion city in America -- during a hair-raising economic downturn, without taking the opportunity to vigorously rebrand itself? Why would this dowdy Middle American entity waddle into Midtown in its big old shorts and flip-flops without even bothering to update its ancient Helvetica Light logo, which for anyone who grew up with the company is encrusted with decades of boring, even traumatically parental, associations? 
 J. C. Penney has always trafficked in knockoffs that aren't quite up to Canal Street's illegal standards. It was never ''get the look for less'' so much as ''get something vaguely shaped like the designer thing you want, but cut much more conservatively, made in all-petroleum materials, and with a too-similar wannabe logo that announces your inferiority to evil classmates as surely as if you were cursed to be followed around by a tuba section.''
 But things, perhaps, have changed. 
 The juniors section of the new Manhattan Penney's seems to be trying, in a somewhat timid fashion, to thump with new energy. Mini-sections flirt with Topshop-like knockoffs and goth wear lite -- not quite a Hot Topic, but nearly lukewarm. It is possible for a raging tween to walk out of Penney's looking mildly subversive in a zebra-print tee, a studded punk (vinyl) belt and black ankle-zip jeans ($42). Young girls and their moms were quite delighted, gasping and squealing to find T-shirts with post-Jacko-facto memorial sentiments like ''I Michael Jackson'' ($20) and ''Every Girl Needs Her Vampire.'' 
 A cheerful sales clerk, Fatema Robinson, assured me: ''I really genuinely like working here. We are one big, happy, tight-knit family in juniors.'' 
 When I asked what she liked best about Penney's, Ms. Robinson replied, ''The tourism, the diversity, the layout,'' with a talking-point accuracy that I suspected came to her via instructional videotape.
 ''There's a lot of ways to advance within the company,'' she continued, with genuine enthusiasm. ''I am learning to do all sorts of things.'' Ms. Robinson hopes that working at Penney's will move her closer to her goal of a career in visual merchandising, and her positive upward mobility struck me (and I say this with no sarcasm) as being a good thing on dozens of levels.
 Since the 1970s, J. C. Penney, like a retail Island of Dr. Moreau, has been doing a sinister experiment with various designers, turning them into something ... not quite human. The plot is a fashion democratization known as ''masstige,'' which sounds gynecological, but is a marketing term created by a fusion of ''mass'' and ''prestige.'' It refers to a downward brand extension: designers compelled to put their good names on down-market lines of ''affordable luxury.'' (Read: items in cheaper materials, sold at lower prices.)
 Masstige theoretically began with Halston, a top designer of the 1970s, who, after dressing first ladies and the gilded habitues of Studio 54, created the Halston II line for J. C. Penney, which tragically diluted Halston's reputation unto ridiculousness, whilst Penney's remained imperturbably clunky. (Google Halston II now, and all you'll get are ceiling fans.) 
 But, since Halston died for the sin of masstige, designers seem to be enjoying a post-shame era. Penney's now carries I Ronson by Charlotte Ronson, and Fabulosity, an off-the-belly-chain line of clothing and extremely complicated metallic blood-on-the-dance-floor pumps by Kimora Lee Simmons, which look as if they'd emit sounds of heavy panting if you held them to your ear. There are collections by other designers who insist on going by their first names (perhaps because Penney's is a friendly, homey place, like Oprah's couch). 
 Behold: Nicole by Nicole Miller; Allen B. by Allen Schwartz (who the heck is Allen Schwartz?); Joe by Joseph Abboud in the men's section, with sweater-vests for Dad; and -- drumroll please -- Liz & Co., an offshoot of Liz Claiborne, key provider of looks that say ''I have been in a senior management position at this D.M.V. for 34 years.''
 A good 96 percent of the Penney's inventory is made of polyester. The few clothing items that are made of cotton make a sincere point of being cotton and tell you earnestly about their 100-percent cottonness with faux-hand-scribbled labels so obviously on the Green bandwagon they practically spit pine cones.
 It took me a long time to find a size 2 among the racks. There are, however, abundant size 10's, 12's and 16's. The dressing rooms are big, clean and well tended. I tried two fairly cute items: a modified domino-print swing dress with padded shoulders by American Living (a Ralph Lauren line created for Penney's) and a long psychedelic muumuu of a style generally worn by Rachel Zoe. Each was around $80; each fit nicely and looked good. I didn't buy either because I can do better for $80, but if I were a size 18, I'd have rejoiced. 
 AND herein lies the genius of J. C. Penney: It has made a point of providing clothing for people of all sizes (a strategy, company officials have said, to snatch business from nearby Macy's). To this end, it has the most obese mannequins I have ever seen. They probably need special insulin-based epoxy injections just to make their limbs stay on. It's like a headless wax museum devoted entirely to the cast of ''Roseanne.'' 
 The petites section features a bounty of items for women nearly as wide as they are tall; the men's Big & Tall section has shirts that could house two or three Shaquilles. And this is really, remarkably smart.
 This niche has been almost wholly neglected on our snobby, self-obsessed little island. New York boutiques tend to cater to the stress-thin, morbidly workaholic, Pilates-tortured Manhattan ectomorph. But there are many more body types who vote with their hard-earned dollars, who appreciate a clean new space in Midtown to buy affordable clothes in hard-to-find sizes, as well as attentive service from attitude-free professionals. Since Penney's remains so doggedly unchanged, it seems to be a familiar place for tourists on a budget; they feel comfortable buying at Penney's, and these clothes still feel special, because they were bought in New York City. 
 My escort, Dr. Redacto, bought a T-shirt. He ordinarily wears a large. I advised him: ''Get the medium. I guarantee, a large is going to be five times larger than any large you've ever seen.'' 
 While modeling it for me later, we discovered that even a Penney's medium is five times larger than any large T-shirt either of us had ever seen: The sleeves came down to the elbow, and there was enough room in front for eight months of unborn twins. 
 And that will probably make some guy feel pretty svelte. 
 J.C. PENNY
 901 Avenue of the Americas (32nd Street); (212) 295-6120. 
 PENNIES The strategy, and a good one, is to mark nearly every item on every rack 30 to 60 percent off, and announce this with signs shouting ''Doorbuster!'' It all feels dizzyingly bargain-sational, prices so rock bottom as to seem virtually free.
 CRANNIES The new vertical layout, a breakaway from Penney's tradition of inhabiting sprawling horizontal mall space, requires two floors of the Manhattan Mall. After you've mastered the escalator, it's pretty much a big, sprawling Penney's on two floors, crammed to the gills with a widely diverse clientele, the majority of whom seem very pleased.
 DENNY'S No matter how many Grand Slam breakfasts you've knocked out of the park, Penney's has a size for you. Ladies will find kicky little numbers that fit no matter how bountiful the good Lord made them; in the men's Big & Tall section, even Voltron could find office casuals. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: I KNOW YOU: The new J. C. Penney store in Midtown. (E1)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BRANDING (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



326 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Optimism Lifts Financial Shares

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Investors took advantage of a two-day decline on Wall Street to jump back into the market on Wednesday, pushing stock indexes higher as the Federal Reserve offered a more optimistic read on the economy.
 As expected, the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee chose not to raise target interest rates from their record lows of nearly zero percent, and its statement said little that investors did not already know.
 But it did say that the economy was ''leveling out'' and that the Fed would end a program to buy $300 billion in longer-term government bonds at the end of October. 
 ''I don't really see anything here to blow our socks off,'' Dennis G. Cajigas, senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock, said.
 Despite rising oil and gold prices and weakness in the dollar, the Fed said it expected that inflation would ''remain subdued for some time.'' Some analysts are predicting that inflation will surge as the government racks up huge new deficits (a record $180.7 billion in July) to finance the economic stimulus program and other projects.
 Investors welcomed the Fed's assessment. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 120.16 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 9,361.61 points, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.46 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,005.81 points. The Nasdaq gained 28.99 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,998.72 points, helped by Apple and Microsoft.
 Financial stocks led the broader market higher, as Citigroup rose 7.9 percent, to $3.98 a share, and the commercial lender CIT Group gained 6.7 percent, to $1.28 a share. Industrial companies like Caterpillar gained ground, and shares of construction companies and builders rose after the luxury home builder Toll Brothers said that lower prices were beginning to attract buyers. Shares of Toll Brothers gained 14 percent, to $23.42. 
 The Fed's decision to wind down its purchases of government securities, which had aimed to keep interest rates low, caused a stir in bond markets, where Treasury prices fell. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 12/32, to 95 6/32, and the yield rose to 3.72 percent from 3.68 percent late Tuesday. 
 ''Judging by the immediate market sell-off, there were more than a few participants who were hoping for a greater commitment toward Treasury purchases,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, said in a research note.
 Although markets wavered this week on some analyst downgrades and more subdued economic figures and profit reports, traders were betting that Wall Street was still headed higher. The major indexes have gained more than 10 percent in the last month on signs that the recession might be ending.
 A smaller-than-expected increase in the United States trade deficit bolstered hopes that trade was rebounding after months of contraction. The Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit edged up 4 percent in June, to $27 billion, from $26 billion in May as imports rose for the first time in 11 months. 
 Exports increased 2 percent in June from May, buoyed by increased demand for semiconductors, civilian aircraft and telecommunications equipment. On Wednesday, shares of Boeing were up 2.1 percent, at $46.34, and shares of Intel closed almost 1 percent higher, at $18.81. 
 In Europe, the FTSE 100 in London rose almost 1 percent, to 4,716.76 points, the DAX in Frankfurt gained 1.2 percent, to 5,350.09, while the CAC 40 in Paris was up 1.5 percent, at 3,507.24.
 Most exchanges in Asia declined Wednesday, led by the Chinese markets. Many analysts have said that a technical correction was overdue in China, where stocks have jumped 80 percent since the start of the year.
 ''We have reached valuations that we normally reach about three or four years into a recovery -- but we're only six months into a recovery now,'' Markus Rosgen, head of regional strategy at Citigroup in Hong Kong, said. 
 Oil prices settled higher, up 71 cents, to $70.16 a barrel.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (85%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (63%); CONSTRUCTION (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); APPLE INC (66%); CIT GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (66%); CIT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (66%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (66%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (66%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (53%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



327 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Aid Planned for Two City Projects

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration, moving to restart stalled development in the heart of Downtown Brooklyn, has picked a big housing and retail complex to receive $20 million in tax-exempt bonds financed by the federal stimulus program. The complex, City Point, would bring hundreds of apartments and a large shopping center to the eastern end of the Fulton Mall.
 The city also selected a project to build a supermarket and shopping mall at Arverne by the Sea, a residential complex on the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens, for $16 million in financing, leaving roughly $90 million more in bonds to be distributed later, said officials at the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 ''We're concerned about the lack of commercial lending for long-term construction projects during these challenging economic times,'' said David Lombino, a spokesman for the development corporation. ''And we're eager to sustain the momentum in neighborhoods like these that had benefited from significant private investment in more flush times but are seeing little today.''
 The city created the bond program, called Recover NYC, in June to provide financial help to private, for-profit developers operating in so-called distressed areas, including large swaths of northern Manhattan, the Bronx, central and south Brooklyn and northwestern Queens.
 In making their selections, officials looked for projects that had been stopped by the economic downturn and where the bonds would allow them to go forward.
 In Downtown Brooklyn, the City Point project would redevelop the long-troubled Albee Square Mall. The site is considered central to the ambitious plans to remake the entire area, given its huge size, access to mass transit and Flatbush Avenue, and proximity to a new park planned for the area. 
 ''It's always been envisioned as one of the premier retail sites in Downtown Brooklyn,'' said Joe Chan, president of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, which is overseeing the development of the downtown area. He said that the City Point site was ''at the epicenter of what we like to think of as an incredibly diversifying downtown,'' and would bring jobs and housing to the area.
 Original plans for the 125,000-square-foot site included roughly 520,000 square feet of multistory retail space and 360,000 square feet of office space to be constructed all at once, along with housing, by next year. But the project ran aground with the economic downturn, said Tom Montvel-Cohen, a consultant on the development team.
 ''All of a sudden it became totally unfinanceable -- no private office tenants, retailers pulling back, banks not lending,'' he said. ''So we had to figure out something we could do to get this project going that was financeable and workable in today's market.'' 
 The current plans call for a slower, phased-in approach, starting with 150,000 to 200,000 square feet of retail space, about 240 apartments and little or no office space. The apartments, to rise in a tower above name-brand national and local chain stores, are to be a mix of market rate and subsidized, with 30 percent reserved for middle-income tenants and 20 percent for low-income residents.
 The proposed financings still have to be approved by the city's Capital Resource Corporation, a body administered by the development corporation that is set to hold a public hearing on them next month. Questions are likely to arise about the role of public financing in private development and the potential displacement of small businesses. 
 ''This is a sort of David-and-Goliath example of small businesses that are paying the rent and providing services to a diverse constituency of Downtown Brooklyn and having something kind of dropped on top of them, which is a big wealthy developer getting subsidies,'' said Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, which studies the use of economic development incentives. ''So the impact on the local community needs to really be taken into consideration before we move forward with economic stimulus.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



328 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2460 words

HEADLINE: It's August. They're Coming for You.

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

 BODY:
LIKE many hosts who give too much, Darlene Dennis, 73, traces her problems back a long way -- in this case, 40 years, when she was hosting a good friend's mother for a week. The woman's elderly Chihuahua urinated nightly on the guest bed, and Ms. Dennis, at a loss for what to do, did nothing and held her breath, particularly when it came time to embrace the guest. 
 Later in life, after Ms. Dennis had become a teacher of English as a second language and settled in the San Diego area, there were additional houseguest outrages. One of the worst involved an old student and her husband, a former United States Naval officer, who were living in Brazil and called -- just as Ms. Dennis was preparing to go on a three-week vacation in the Far East -- to say they were moving back to San Diego and would like to stay in her home until they found an apartment.
 Ms. Dennis said what all hosts who give too much say in such a situation: ''Sure.'' 
 The problems began as soon as Ms. Dennis returned. The husband, picking her up at the airport, did not have enough money to get out of the parking lot. On the way home, he complained that she had left no food in the house. She also found that her guests had brought along their pets, a caged parrot and six free-range tortoises. 
 ''They were munching the flowers in my garden -- to be fair, they also ate the weeds,'' Ms. Dennis said, showing yet another sign of an oppressed host: hyper-sensitivity to another person's point of view.
 She also had a particularly vivid memory of the husband in the bathroom screaming, ''I need toilet paper!''
 ''It took me two or three weeks to get these people out of the house,'' Ms. Dennis said. ''I finally lent them $200 to get an apartment. When I told them they had to leave, she went into hysterics.''
 The fact that Ms. Dennis permitted such behavior for decades prompted her to write ''Host or Hostage? A Guide for Surviving House Guests,'' a battle plan for doormat hosts, self-published this year. 
 ''I want to change the world for hosts,'' she said. ''I want them to establish boundaries and stop playing the role of victim.'' 
 It is August, high houseguest season. Many people are treasuring wonderful guests -- old friends who arrive with thoughtful gifts and help with the cooking and cleanup. But there are others who expect the host to be driver, cook, entertainer and maid, and who stay for weeks, even months. 
 Harrowing houseguests come in many varieties, from Clueless (often in their early 20's) to Aggressively Exploitive, but they share one trait: an uncanny ability to find hosts willing to place the guest's needs before their own -- people who become, as Ms. Dennis put it, hostages in their own homes. Two such people interviewed for this article did so in whispers, because of guests they were unable to evict.
 Sure, there are some who have the presence of mind to say to guests like these, ''Terribly sorry, we've made plans, but once you know where you are staying tell us, and we'll have lunch.'' Or those who, faced with a guest gone rogue, can say: ''Marvin, you're an obnoxious jerk. I plain can't stand you. Stay someplace else.'' (This works only when the guest is named Marvin.)
 For everyone else, some spine-stiffening stories. 
 The First Step: Admit You Have a Problem
 A public relations executive, who begged to remain anonymous, lives in Hawaii with her husband and has always had homes on the beach. This is the equivalent of having a doctoral degree in houseguests.
 ''The thing about a beach house is that everybody shows up, including friends of friends that you haven't seen for a long time,'' she said. ''I had a woman from Australia, a friend of a friend. What I remember was that her great house present was used paper coasters. Another person who showed up was Robert Blake. I didn't even know until I found a picture he had signed.''
 ''Bumming a bed is an art form,'' the executive continued. ''Someone says, 'I'm coming, may I stay?' When they arrive and say, 'Will you pick up me up?' it becomes apparent they don't have a car and it also means all meals will be at home and you're going to cook. You drive them around and hint, 'We need some gas,' and they watch you pay for the gas.''
 Any other horror stories?
 ''I once paid $130 to get rid of a guest'' whose next destination was two hours away, she said. ''She arrived, stayed the weekend and said to me, 'Well, you can't drive that far and I'm not taking a bus, so are you paying for my taxi?' I put it on my credit card. My husband doesn't know.''
 Happily, Ms. Beach House was able to take that essential first step: she acknowledged that she was a host who gave too much. These days, the only people who stay at her house are the ones she invites.
 The Young Have Been Known to Devour Their Hosts
 Lori Seegers, 54, is a successful lawyer with a large New York City apartment -- an 1,800-square-foot three-bedroom loft with an open floor plan. Two years ago, when her son, then 20, mentioned that a college friend who had recently graduated was going to stay for a few weeks while she looked for a job, Ms. Seegers thought that would be fine. She traveled often, sometimes staying at her small apartment in Chicago, and her son's friend, a young woman, would be company for him. Also, it was a tough economy and Ms. Seegers was happy that she was in a position to help a young person starting out.
 But the job search didn't go as planned. Months passed. 
 ''She gets a job that won't really support moving, and the two of them are good company to one another,'' Ms. Seegers said. ''This poor girl has no money and doesn't have the job of her dreams and is sad, and I said, 'O.K., you can stay a few more weeks.' ''
 When her daughter came home from college, though, that would seem to have been the perfect opportunity to have told the guest to move on, Ms. Seegers is told.
 ''And shame on me, for at this point I should have said it.''
 How long had it been?
 ''She'd been there from late October or November to May,'' Ms. Seegers said. ''But I thought, 'She's adorable, she's small.' Her joke is that she's a mouse.'' 
 The mouse ended up staying 17 months, sleeping on the couch when Ms. Seegers's daughter came home during college breaks. Hints like ''I really don't like it when people are sleeping on the couch in the middle of the day'' had no effect on her.
 The breaking point came when Ms. Seegers's daughter, moving back home from college for the summer, had nowhere to put her clothes because the mouse's clothing was in her closet. When Ms. Seegers told her guest that she loved her dearly, but it was time to find her own place, the mouse reverted to what Ms. Seegers calls ''severe teenage behavior,'' anger and sulking. That has since been patched over, and the mouse remains a beloved family friend. 
 But the houseguest policy has changed.
 ''The rule is nobody stays more than one week,'' Ms. Seegers said. 
 The Absolutely Foolproof Guest Test
 Have coffee with a potential guest in a fancy bakery. If the guest snags five brownies from the sample tray, do not invite this person to stay in your home. 
 The Absolutely Foolproof Guest Test That Comes Too Late
 One should be concerned about guests who arrive in a car-centric city like Orlando, Fla., or Los Angeles and ask you to pick them up at the airport. That means they are not renting a car. You will be the driver.
 Joyce Spector, a New York City special effects designer, rented a vacation house in Winter Park, Fla., not far from Walt Disney World. A British couple, a chef and a filmmaker whom she and her husband knew and liked were taking a six-month vacation (a time period that should have been a red flag to the hosts) and asked if they might visit. Ms. Spector said, ''Sure,'' although she was a little surprised when they asked to be picked up at the airport. 
 ''I was kind of waiting for them to reveal their plans to me, but they didn't reveal their plans because they had no plans. They had no interest in renting a car, so here I was with these two people I formerly liked in my house, absolutely wrapped around my neck,'' Ms. Spector said. ''I had never discussed with them how long they were going to stay. I was thinking three to five days, a week max.'' 
 Ms. Spector could do no work because they were sleeping in the extra room that was her office. And from what she could tell, they saw their visit as an open-ended stay that might go on ... actually, she couldn't say. Forever? Eventually, she could take no more.
 ''Finally, I said to them in my most polite, delicate manner, 'I think it's time for you to think about leaving,' '' Ms. Spector said. ''Whereupon -- this was so shocking to me -- they started to pack their bags and said, 'Take us to the motel around the corner.' They took their suitcases out of the car before they even rented a room, and I have never seen, spoken or heard from them since.'' 
 ''They literally got out of the car, shut the door and walked away without a word,'' she continued. ''I never got a thank-you note, I never got a note of, 'I'm sorry it ended that way.' '' 
 This was how long ago?
 ''Ten years.''
 Sorry, I Have To Get Off the Phone, Someone Is at the Door Giving Away Fascinating Religious Tracts
 Judy Lewis, an owner of HudsonValleyWeddings.com, an online wedding planning resource, tells the story of a bride-to-be who was blindsided one day by a phone call from an out-of-town cousin. 
 ''She proceeded to tell the bride that financial constraints meant that she would have to bring her three young children to the wedding,'' Ms. Lewis wrote in an e-mail message. ''Then she announced that the same economic downturn necessitated her staying at the bride's home for a few days before, during and after the wedding. The cousin also said that since the bridal couple was going on a honeymoon immediately following the reception, she was sure the bride wouldn't mind the family staying on when they went away.''
 The bride, horrified, needed time to come up with an excuse, so she told the cousin she had to take a call. Then she e-mailed Ms. Lewis.
 ''I suggested that she tell the cousin that as much as she wanted them at the wedding, she simply could not put them up as houseguests,'' Ms. Lewis continued. ''I recommended that as an excuse, she say that there were many out-of-town guests who had requested lodging and she couldn't say yes to one and no to another. As for staying at her home during the honeymoon, I suggested she say there were several maintenance things going on at the house which would eliminate the possibility of having guests: particularly fogging for pests, steam cleaning the carpet and painting.'' 
 The tactic worked. Although the cousin still brought her children to the wedding.
 Accept That Sometimes One Is Powerless Against One's Guests
 Houseguests come, houseguests go, but there are guests whose memory is forever fresh. Sally Billig, an 84-year-old retired psychologist now living in Cardiff-by-the-Sea, Calif., recounts a story she told Ms. Dennis for her book.
 ''I was in my 20's,'' Ms. Billig said. ''We were living in Natick, Mass. My friends gave me a call and said they were going to be in the area, probably for a conference, and could they stay with us? I said we would be away, I was terribly sorry, but I did not say they could stay at the house.''
 Ms. Billig and her husband went on vacation, and when they returned, the house was exactly as they had left it. Then came a knock on the door from a neighbor, who told them that while they were away she had spotted two people -- who turned out to be Ms. Billig's old friends -- climbing in the window.
 ''My neighbor asked them what they were doing. It was very clear they knew me,'' Ms. Billig said. ''I had no way of knowing when I came back that anything had gone on.''
 What crazy behavior. What did these people do?
 ''He was a psychiatrist.''
 The Obamas Have a Big Place, Too -- Do You Ask Them to Let You Stay?
 When a 37-year-old broker and freelance writer managed to buy a four-bedroom apartment in Manhattan several years ago, her mother warned her that everyone in the world would want to stay with her. This proved to be true, but Rachel Benjamin (her pen name, which she asked to use to avoid family tensions) was, for the most part, fine with it.
 The problem turned out to be her relatives: specifically, a 21-year-old college student on her mother's side of the family, who asked to stay during her six-week internship this summer, but arrived early and announced she would be staying three months. This cousin had made a few weekend visits -- ''Come to think of it, I only hear from her when she wants to stay,'' Ms. Benjamin said. Her cousin contributed nothing to the household expenses, nor did she help with chores. Two and a half months into the stay, Ms. Benjamin was going crazy.
 ''I went to business school, so I am pulling out all my management skills,'' she said. ''I sat her down and said: 'We have to renegotiate you staying here. You need to dust the floor, and when you make something smelly, you put it in a plastic bag and seal it and take it to the garbage.' ''
 There were family pressures as well.
 ''My mother also doesn't want me to ruin her relationship with her brother by telling her to get out. My dad is like, 'Get her out.' My mother is like, 'Ignore your father,' '' Ms. Benjamin said. ''My sister, who lives in California, said to me, 'I don't want you to ever do this again.' ''
 ''But we put ourselves in our guest's shoes,'' she continued, ''and remember what it was like when we were 20.''
 Uh, oh -- the dreaded habit of putting the guest's concerns before your own. For all of Ms. Benjamin's high-powered professional skills, she appears to be a host who gives too much.
 A clinical history establishes this: Back in the days when Ms. Benjamin was living in a studio, the mother of one of her high school friends called to tell her that another daughter's boyfriend needed a place to stay in New York for two days before heading home to Wales. Although the young man was a stranger, Ms. Benjamin agreed to let him stay with her. She was annoyed to discover, after he left, that he had run up a $30 cable porn bill.
 Ms. Benjamin has agreed to host many other strangers over the years. Once, when she was talking to a Buddhist monk about why she had been lucky enough to get such a large apartment in New York City, he seemed to intuit that. ''He said, 'You've probably given shelter to many people,' '' Ms. Benjamin said.
 Then did he ask her if could stay there?
 ''That was another person he worked with, a Buddhist teacher,'' she said. ''A hotel would have been very, very expensive, so I had him come and stay at my house for three weeks.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ZOHAR LAZAR) (pg.D1 and D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); NAVIES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); BRAZIL (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



329 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Nestle's Profit Declines 2.7% in First 6 Months

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
Nestle, the world's biggest food and drink maker, reported Wednesday that its net profit declined 2.7 percent over the first half of the year, as the recession hurt consumer demand and a stronger Swiss franc weighed on sales. 
 The company said it earned 5.1 billion Swiss francs ($4.7 billion) in the January-June period, down slightly from 5.2 billion francs in the period a year ago.
 The result exceeded market expectations, although some analysts noted the company had dropped its full-year growth forecast.
 The chief executive, Paul Bulcke, said he was pleased that Nestle had ''delivered a combination of growth and increased profitability in the first half of the year, and this in a very challenging business environment.''
 Nestle reports sales each quarter, but earnings only on the half-year and full-year.
 Sales through June fell 1.5 percent, to 52.3 billion francs.
 Food and beverages sales fell 2 percent, to 48.3 billion francs. Sales stagnated in the Americas, its biggest market, but fell 7.5 percent in Asia and Africa and 21.6 percent in Europe.
 Nestle's bottled water was the big loser as sales fell 4.7 percent on lower demand in Western Europe and North America.
 The company's nutrition unit also reported a 3.5 percent decline in sales, even as its infant nutrition business showed some signs of gaining momentum in Europe and the United States. It said its cereals business and Nespresso coffee continued to perform well.
 Nestle said the strength of the Swiss franc against other currencies brought overall sales down 4.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BEVERAGE MFG (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); NUTRITION (65%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (90%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (90%)

PERSON: PAUL BULCKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (72%) EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (74%); SWITZERLAND (72%); ASIA (69%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



330 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: A Trickle of Aid for the Little Guy

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
Small-business owners hoping for some assistance of the sort given to the nation's biggest banks applauded when the Small Business Administration unveiled a lending program in May.
 Washington officials and some lenders predicted that the program, providing emergency bridge loans as part of the economic stimulus package, would save jobs and provide a lifeline for vulnerable businesses. Many in the banking industry expected it to be fully subscribed in months. 
 But the program is off to a slow start, and many banks, including some of the largest, appear reluctant to take part. 
 With $255 million, the program is prepared to make about 10,000 loans of up to $35,000 each. As of Monday, the agency reported that only 1,127 loans, totaling $36.8 million, had been extended. 
 While the agency maintains that the program is on track, some in the banking industry say the banks are moving slowly because they have little incentive. ''There's not a lot of profit motive in a $35,000 loan stretched over six years,'' said Paul Merski, chief economist for the Independent Community Bankers of America, a trade association. 
 Bob Seiwert, of the Center for Commercial Lending and Business Banking at the American Bankers Association, says ''stringent underwriting standards'' will require as much work as larger loans, making these even less economical.
 Alex Cooper, a counselor at the Pima Community College Small Business Development Center in Tucson, says he has helped nearly 30 clients apply for the loans. None has received one.
 ''It's a disappointment,'' said Mr. Cooper. ''I thought the banks would be more interested in the community and try to help small businesses.'' 
 Under the program, known as America's Recovery Capital, a business owner applies to a bank for a loan and, if approved, can use the proceeds to retire existing debt. The borrower pays no interest on the new loan. 
 Instead, the Small Business Administration pays the bank two percentage points over the prime rate. After a one-year deferral, the borrower repays the loan over five years. The agency will repay the lender in case of default. 
 At the current rate, the program could have loans available through September 2010, when it is set to expire. ''We like the fact, actually, that they will be spread out over time,'' said Karen G. Mills, head of the Small Business Administration. ''We have no doubt that we will make 10,000 loans.''
 Not surprisingly, small-business owners are less pleased with the slow pace. Among the frustrated applicants is Mark Rusin, a client of Mr. Cooper's whose restaurant business has fallen precipitously in the last year.
 Mr. Rusin bought a franchise location of Uno Chicago Grill north of Tucson in April 2007 for $3.2 million. He dropped the franchise agreement because of fees and restyled the restaurant as the Loop Taste of Chicago.
 Then came the recession. As the snowbirds left for points north this spring, sales tumbled. June revenue was $72,000, down 28 percent from a year earlier. ''I'm bleeding out to the tune of 10 grand a month right now,'' Mr. Rusin said. One of the new loans, he said, would see him through the next couple of months. 
 Part of the problem for borrowers like Mr. Rusin may be that Congress restricted loan eligibility to companies that are simultaneously struggling yet viable. That means the business must face an ''immediate financial hardship,'' meaning a 20 percent reduction in a critical operating number, such as revenue. 
 But the company, which has to have been in business at least two years, also has to have shown positive cash flow, if not an actual profit, in one of the last two years. It also must do a two-year cash-flow projection to show it can repay all its obligations.
 The effort required to verify all of this probably explains why those banks that are participating in the program are lending primarily to existing clients. ''From a financial perspective, it really is a loan that makes sense for an existing customer,'' Mr. Merski said. ''You're not going to have to put out a lot of resources to do a very costly underwriting. You know the business.''
 Mr. Rusin was fortunate in that the lender holding a first position on his commercial mortgage, M & I Bank of Milwaukee, is participating in the program. He hoped to use the loan to pay his vendors. But soon after he submitted his application, Mr. Rusin said, the bank told him he could use the loan only to pay down the earlier debt owed to the bank. 
 M & I ultimately denied Mr. Rusin's application. The bank, he says, told him that was because his business had failed to show a profit in either of the previous two years, despite the more forgiving guidelines of the program.
 M & I Bank declined to comment on this, citing privacy laws and its corporate policy.
 ''The guidelines are just that, a guideline,'' said Mike Stamler of the Small Business Administration. The agency and the banks, he says, have the flexibility to deny an applicant that meets the guidelines -- or approve one that does not, as long as the loan is deemed ''reasonable.'' 
 It would appear that banks like M & I are using that flexibility more to deny than to approve loans. For example, Wells Fargo, one of the largest Small Business Administration lenders, has received 700 to 800 completed applications, said Tom Burke, the senior vice president overseeing small-business loans at Wells Fargo, but has approved only ''several dozen.'' (As of Monday, the agency said it had in turn blessed only three of them.)
 ''What we're seeing,'' Mr. Burke said, ''is a lot of people who are incredibly leveraged, and it's very difficult for them to pay back their existing debt, much less take a new one.''
 Mr. Seiwert of the American Bankers Association and Mr. Merski of the independent bankers group say banks are lending conservatively because they fear the agency will renege on its guarantee. 
 ''While the loan is 100 percent guaranteed, it's only 100 percent guaranteed if you follow all of the underwriting guidelines, and some of those guidelines are very fuzzy,'' Mr. Seiwert said. ''If you miss one, you put your whole loan at risk.'' 
 Ms. Mills of the small-business agency acknowledged that there had been tension over guarantees but said that issue had largely been resolved. The agency, she added, honors its guarantee in ''95 percent of the cases, and we're fairly quick about our turnaround as well.''
 The leaders of the small-business committees in Congress do not criticize the banks. Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and chairwoman of the Senate committee, said through a spokeswoman that she understood their reluctance to lend to struggling firms. 
 Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the House committee, accused the small-business agency of failing to establish the program within the 15 days that Congress demanded and of failing to reach out to banks. But Ms. Velazquez, who has claimed some credit for inserting the lending provision into the stimulus bill, said through a spokesman that she expected additional lenders to participate ''as they learn more about the program's incentives.''
 Ms. Mills of the agency agrees that more banks will sign up. But she defends the time spent establishing the program. The new loans ''have a much higher risk profile than what the S.B.A. usually does,'' she said. ''So we have taken great care to be good stewards of the taxpayers' money.''
 Mr. Rusin, for his part, remains optimistic. He persuaded one of his lenders to defer payments on a loan, saving himself more than $50,000 in the short term. Even before getting the deferral, Mr. Rusin insisted that once construction near his restaurant was out of the way and the recession was over, ''I should be in pretty good shape here.'' 
 As if on cue, a couple finishing an early dinner headed toward the door. ''You've done a wonderful job here,'' the man said. ''It was the taste of Chicago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Banks have created high hurdles for applicants and rejected many, like Mark Rusin, owner of the Loop in Arizona.(pg. B1)
 The Loop restaurant, near Tucson, has struggled in the recession, but a bank decided not to give it a federal stimulus loan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); FRANCHISEES (74%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ARIZONA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



331 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MEXICO 2, UNITED STATES 1; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Restores Order to Its Universe

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
The United States took its first lead in four decades of playing soccer at Estadio Azteca on Wednesday, but the advantage proved as thin and gasping as the air at high altitude.
 Meanwhile, Mexico played with great patience, controlling possession along with its emotions, remaining serene despite enormous pressure not to lose at home for the first time to the Americans and further jeopardize its ability to qualify for the 2010 World Cup.
 And then, in the 82nd minute, when the ball popped free in a capricious moment, the substitute forward Miguel Sabah pounced on it, finding great fortune three minutes after entering the game. 
 His blast gave Mexico a 2-1 victory, sending the 105,000 fans at Azteca into ecstatic release, igniting a hail of flag-waving, beer-tossing and horn-blowing celebration. National pride was bolstered, and so were Mexico's chances of reaching South Africa.
 ''This was life or death for the whole country,'' said Kurt Vogt, a Mexican supporter, his face painted in the green, white and red of the nation's flag.
 The United States' chances of qualifying for the World Cup remain encouraging, but Wednesday's late defeat brought disappointment over an opportunity missed. The American players were convinced they could win in Mexico. Instead, their record south of the border slipped to 0-23-1.
 Once again, as it had done against Italy and Brazil in the Confederations Cup in June, the United States took a lead but could not hold it.
 ''To be a great team, you have to learn how to control the lead,'' said forward Charlie Davies, whose blistering goal gave the United States a 1-0 lead in the ninth minute.
 But the advantage faded, and so did some of the luster of the Americans' performance this summer at the Confederations Cup, where they defeated Spain, then the world's No. 1 team, and took Brazil to the wire in the final.
 In three weeks, the United States has now lost twice to Mexico. The 5-0 loss last month at the Gold Cup final could be explained away by the use of reserve players. On Wednesday, though, both sides were stocked with regulars, and Mexico proved to be the better and luckier team.
 Mexico urgently needed a win at home after losing previous qualifying matches in the United States, Honduras and El Salvador. The game possessed the consuming feeling of a World Cup and a national referendum.
 Fans wore their green team jerseys all over the city, whether they attended the match or not. Seven hours before kickoff, animated discussions were already under way on television. Newspapers carried headlines like ''D-Day'' and ''Zero Hour.'' Psychics were brought in to predict the outcome.
 As the Americans left their hotel two hours before kickoff, they were greeted by Mexican supporters holding their hands aloft -- five fingers spread on one hand, the fist closed on the other, a reference to the 5-0 Gold Cup victory.
 Azteca throbbed like a beehive with the buzz of plastic horns from the moment the American goalkeepers appeared for warm-ups. Later, the horns attempted to drown out the United States' national anthem.
 But it was a fragile, nervous confidence. Javier Aguirre, the Mexican coach, had hoped for an early goal, to calm Mexico's players and its supporters. Instead, the opposite happened.
 In the ninth minute, Landon Donovan played a crisp pass from midfield to the left wing, hitting Davies in stride. Davies's speed and determination had been impressive at the Confederations Cup; this time he struck the ball sharply from 12 yards inside the right post, giving the United States a 1-0 advantage. The next sound was 105,000 people growing silent and alarmed.
 Never before had the Americans taken a lead at Azteca, whose mystique is as imposing as its 7,200-foot altitude. Only once had Mexico lost a World Cup qualifying match here. Davies ran to the corner flag and began dancing, until he was whisked away by his teammate Michael Bradley as debris was hurled from the stands.
 Many wondered whether the crowd would turn on Mexico's players if they fell behind, or whether a sense of despair would overtake Azteca. Neither happened as the American advantage proved as brief as it was rare.
 ''Despite falling behind, we maintained calm and order and hope,'' the Mexican defender Efrain Juarez said.
 Ten minutes later, Donovan was stripped at midfield and Israel Castro rocketed a shot from 30 yards, the ball hitting the crossbar and ricocheting into the goal, drawing Mexico even at 1-1 in the 19th minute.
 The second half became a chess match of substitutions as players began to tire. The reserve midfielder Stuart Holden sent a beautiful cross into the penalty area, just beyond Davies's reach. Tempers grew short as Davies fell to the ground with cramps. The Mexican players apparently thought he was stalling. Pushing ensued.
 As the end neared, the United States felt assured of at least a tie, a worthy outcome. But with eight minutes remaining, Donovan hesitated slightly on defense and Juarez dribbled past him in the penalty area.
 Jay DeMerit rushed over and made a slide tackle, and the ball popped free to Sabah, who roofed it from 10 yards for the deciding goal. For a moment, Mexico could forget about its ailing economy, swine flu epidemic and barbarous drug wars. The archrival Americans had been vanquished.
 ''Where are you now, gringos? Where are you now?'' Carlos Alatorre, a Mexican supporter, sang with his friends on a ramp outside the stadium.
 ''This is the most important thing we've ever done against the U.S.,'' Alatorre said.
 Costa Rica leads the six-team group with 12 points despite its 4-0 loss to Honduras on Wednesday night. Honduras and the United States are tied with 10 points, and Mexico is another point back, with only the top three qualifying automatically.
 A spot in the World Cup is not guaranteed, but for a day, the crisis in Mexican soccer faded into relieved merriment. Even Aguirre could allow himself a moment of satisfaction.
 ''We can take two tequilas tonight,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, U.S. goalkeeper Tim Howard tried in vain to stop a 30-yard shot from Israel Castro of Mexico that tied the score in the 19th minute Wednesday. Landon Donovan endured a debris shower as he prepared to take a corner kick. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DONALD MIRALLE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B11)
 Clockwise from left (with Tim Howard in the middle), Stuart Holden, Landon Donovan, Jay DeMerit and Carlos Bocanegra. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALFREDO ESTRELLA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (60%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%); SPAIN (70%); HONDURAS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



332 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: After Escaping Wartime Iraq, Immigrants Face Lonely Struggle

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Not long after the Iraq war began in 2003, Uday Hattem al-Ghanimi was accosted by several men outside the American military base where he managed a convenience store. They accused him of abetting the Americans, and one fired a pistol at his head.
 Now, after 24 operations, Mr. Ghanimi has a reconstructed face as well as political asylum in the United States. On July 4, his wife and three youngest children joined him in New York after a three-year separation.
 But the euphoria of their reunion quickly dissipated as the family began to reckon with the colder realities of their new life. Mr. Ghanimi, 50, who has not been able to work because of lingering pain, is supporting his family on a monthly disability check of $761, food stamps and handouts from friends. They are crammed into one room they rent in a two-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, in a city whose small Iraqi population is scattered. And Mr. Ghanimi's wife and children do not speak English, deepening their sense of isolation.
 ''They say, 'Let's go back,' '' Mr. Ghanimi said glumly. ''It's not what they were thinking. I told them, 'Just be patient.' '' 
 For years after the American invasion of Iraq, thousands of Iraqis clamored for admission to the United States and found the door all but closed -- until the government reacted to widespread criticism in 2007 by making it easier for more to enter with special visas or as refugees.
 But now that Iraqis are arriving in larger numbers, many are discovering that life in the United States is much harder than they expected.
 A report released in June by the International Rescue Committee, a refugee resettlement organization in New York, said that many Iraqi immigrants have been unable to find jobs, are exhausting government and other benefits and are spiraling toward poverty and homelessness.
 Advocates for immigrants in New York and elsewhere say that Iraqis have had more difficulty getting settled than most migrant populations. Many are well educated and arrive with unrealistically high expectations of the life that awaits them. Though most have received assistance from government or private agencies, large numbers have immigrated in the depths of the recession.
 Many also need help dealing with the physical and emotional wounds of war.
 ''I've never seen a population where the trauma is so universal,'' said Robert Carey, vice president for resettlement and migration policy at the International Rescue Committee.
 More than 30,000 Iraqis have been resettled in the United States since the 2003 invasion as refugees, or with special visas for those who worked closely with the American government. At least 1,500 more have been granted asylum, federal officials say. 
 A vast majority have arrived in the past two years, settling thinly across the country, with larger concentrations in San Diego, Phoenix, Houston and Dearborn, Mich. More than 1,100 have been resettled in the New York region, with at least 100 in New York City. 
 In Iraq, many worked as doctors, teachers, scientists and interpreters -- often for Americans, giving some the hope that they would be rewarded with a comfortable life here. But like accomplished immigrants from other countries, most have found that overseas credentials do not always apply in the American market, compelling them to compete for lower-skill jobs.
 Nour al-Khal, 35, who arrived in New York as a refugee in 2007, has been mentoring several Iraqi families. Among the hardest adjustments, she said, is accepting the likelihood that they will not make a lateral professional move. 
 ''We fight over that,'' said Ms. Khal, who was shot in Basra, in southern Iraq, in 2005 while working as an interpreter for Steven Vincent, an American journalist who was killed in the attack. Ms. Khal was a senior manager for an American development contractor; in New York, the best job she could initially find was as a receptionist at a real estate firm. 
 ''I just accepted it,'' said Ms. Khal, who now works as a translator. ''It was so hard.'' 
 The New York region offers notable opportunities for newcomers. Public transportation is good, and social service agencies have a wealth of experience with recent immigrants. But living costs are high, and the Iraqi population -- unlike other immigrant groups that have colonized neighborhoods and formed associations -- is atomized, fostering an alienation that is aggravated by the city's relentless pace. 
 ''My life is miserable,'' said Dunya al-Juboori, 29, a former hair salon owner in Baghdad who came as a refugee in 2007 and lives in Medford, N.J. She has been working for minimum wage at a salon in the mornings and attending cosmetology school the rest of the day, leaving no time or money to develop a social life. She has not seen her family since 2006, when she left Iraq to seek treatment in Jordan for advanced lymphoma. 
 ''I cry every day,'' she said, adding quickly, ''Not in the morning, because I'm too busy.'' 
 Ehab, 34, who worked for a development contractor in Baghdad but fled after receiving threats, said recent immigrants from Iraq are in need of profound guidance. (He spoke on the condition that his surname not be published, saying he feared that insurgents in Iraq would attack his family.)
 ''An Iraqi who is transitioning from a country in war needs a lot of care,'' said Ehab, who arrived in New York as a refugee in 2007 and works as a project coordinator for Proskauer Rose, a Manhattan law firm that has helped hundreds of refugees and asylum seekers.
 Mr. Ghanimi, the store manager who was shot, is deeply grateful for the free medical care, legal assistance and housing he received while his face was repaired and his family's asylum applications were processed.
 But the tasks still at hand are overwhelming, he said -- like finding a new apartment, getting his wife treatment for a variety of physical and emotional ailments and enrolling his children, 21, 17 and 11, in classes. 
 His most important job, he said, is to convince them all that they are better off here than in Baghdad -- at the very least, because their lives are not at risk. 
 ''I told them everything here is beautiful,'' he said. ''Electricity 24 hours, not like in Iraq. The weather is very good, not like in Iraq. There are many things you can't get in Iraq. And they come and say, 'Yeah, but you can't get it.' '' 
 A few days later, he took the family to Times Square at sunset, to experience the full effect of the lights. They were wide-eyed, dazzled by the swirl of activity. 
 ''Maybe it will take time to put everything in place,'' Mr. Ghanimi said. ''But I feel like everything will be good.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Uday Hattem al-Ghanimi, with his son Mohammed, 11, won asylum after being shot in Baghdad. (pg.A1)
 In Iraq, Nour al-Khal was a senior manager for a development contractor. In New York, she initially had to work as a receptionist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); REFUGEES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); CONVENIENCE STORES (77%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



333 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Covering Many Bases For a Brand Of Blue Jeans

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE British say ''Mind the gap,'' but in this country it has been a while since shoppers minded what Gap was selling. The Gap division of Gap Inc. was struggling even before the recession, which has persuaded consumers to cut back significantly on clothing purchases.
 Problems with the appeal of its merchandise, which was perceived as unfashionable, have vexed Gap at a time when its friendly prices and back-to-basics approach should be attracting customers. In a major effort to address that, Gap is reintroducing its core product, denim jeans, with an elaborate campaign notable for its many nontraditional elements, which include a Facebook page, video clips, a realistic online fashion show on a virtual catwalk and an application for the iPhone called the StyleMixer. 
 There are other offbeat aspects to the campaign that include acoustic concerts, scheduled to be held simultaneously in more than 700 stores next Thursday, and the opening of temporary ''pop-up'' stores devoted to denim, at locations in Los Angeles and New York.
 The campaign, which gets under way on Thursday, promotes the newly named 1969 Premium Jeans line with the theme ''Born to fit,'' which lends its name to a microsite, or special Web site (borntofit.com).
 The year in the name is a tip of the hat to the 40th anniversary of Gap, which opened in 1969 selling Levi's jeans and records. (Gap's own jeans label arrived in 1974, and the chain sold its last denim made by Levi Strauss & Company in 1991.)
 The campaign is meant to convey that Gap has ''taken our heritage, denim, and re-energized it,'' said Ivy Ross, executive vice president for marketing at the Gap division in San Francisco. ''It's like building a new house.''
 The 1969 Premium line represents a reworking of the types of jeans Gap sells, to improve their fit and finish, along with the addition of popular styles like the boyfriend jean for women and the skinny jean for men. Prices start at $59.50, which Gap hopes will appeal to budget-conscious shoppers trading down from designer jeans costing $100 to $300 a pair.
 The recession ''threw in some new challenges,'' Ms. Ross said, ''but it also presents some new opportunities'' like promoting ''the value we can offer at an accessible price.''
 ''We need to communicate to people why they should put Gap on their list,'' she added. The campaign is meant to achieve that goal with ''probably the most fully integrated marketing plan we've done in many years.''
 A message she hopes the campaign delivers is that ''Gap stands the test of time,'' Ms. Ross said, ''as opposed to fast fashion'' -- a reference to rival retailers like H&M and Zara, which specialize in trends in lower-price apparel.
 As Gap sales fell, the chain pulled back on advertising, taking steps that included the elimination of television commercials, a format that Gap once mastered with spots like ''Khakis swing.''
 Ms. Ross acknowledged that ''part of the issue is that we haven't communicated to customers what we stand for and what they can expect from us.'' That will change, she said, as more merchandise is brought out bearing the stamp of Patrick Robinson, who joined Gap as executive vice president for design in 2007.
 ''It is the right time for Gap to come out of the closet, so to speak,'' Ms. Ross said, adding that the chain might return to TV ads for the holiday season.
 The ads are being produced by two agencies. Laird & Partners, which developed the campaign, is working on ads that appear in places like movie theaters, magazines and outdoors. AKQA is working on the digital elements like the iPhone app and the Facebook page.
 Until recently, the prevailing philosophy among shoppers was ''more is more is more,'' said Trey Laird, chief creative officer at Laird & Partners in New York.
 Now, with consumers in a money-saving mood, the campaign will try to tap into a belief that buying ''a great pair of jeans'' for $59.50 is ''actually cooler than buying a $300 pair of jeans,'' he added.
 ''Some of their biggest problems came when they focused on things that were not their expertise,'' Mr. Laird said of Gap stores, which strayed recently by selling clothing deemed too fashion-forward.
 The 1969 Premium line, by contrast, reminds customers that Gap has ''been in the jeans business for 40 years,'' he added, and has ''the heritage and expertise'' missing from higher-price brands that may have been ''founded last year.'' 
 Levi Strauss is taking a similar tack with a campaign introduced last month from Wieden & Kennedy, which carries the theme, ''Go forth.'' Those ads seek to remind consumers of the authenticity of the Levi's brand, which dates to the 19th century.
 The parts of the Gap campaign appearing in digital media are ''all about having our message in the right place, where people already are, and having a conversation with them instead of advertising to them,'' said Julie Channing, senior account director at AKQA in San Francisco.
 At the same time, said Rei Inamoto, chief creative officer at AKQA, ''we don't want to be so 'bleeding edge' that you have to have a $500 phone to access the brand.''
 ''The tendency from both the agency side and the marketer side is to say, 'Hey, what's cool right now?' '' he added. ''We are careful not to pursue these channels just for the sake of doing them because everyone else is doing them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gap is promoting its 1969 Premium Jeans, above, at the Web site borntofit.com and in an application for the iPhone, along with a Facebook presence and, next week, in-store concerts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); APPEALS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); MARKETING PLAN (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (95%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (91%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (95%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (95%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



334 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: An Upbeat Fed Views Recession As Near an End

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Almost exactly two years after it embarked on what was the biggest financial rescue in American history, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that the recession is ending and that it would take a step back toward normal policy.
 Though the central bank stopped well short of declaring victory, policy makers issued their most upbeat assessment in more than a year by saying that the downturn appears to have hit bottom and that consumer spending, financial markets and inventory-building by corporations all continued to stabilize.
 ''Economic activity is leveling out,'' the Fed's policy-making committee said Wednesday after a two-day meeting, adding that inflation would remain ''subdued for some time.'' 
 The central bank cautioned that the recovery would be slow and that unemployment was likely to remain high for the next year. It reiterated that it would keep its benchmark short-term interest rate at virtually zero for an extended period.
 But it also announced that it would wrap up its program to buy $300 billion worth of Treasury bonds by the end of October. The program was one of several tools invoked to drive down long-term interest rates and indirectly reduce the cost of home mortgages and corporate borrowing.
 The move signaled that policy makers were confident enough to remove one of their emergency props for the financial markets. 
 ''In a way, it's more of a thumbs-up than if they had said they were continuing the Treasury-buying,'' said Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs. ''They're saying that things are going according to plan, and that the policy is O.K.''
 Stock prices, which were already up from Tuesday, ticked up again after the Fed announcement. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 120.16 points, or 1.30 percent, at 9,361.61.
 Fed officials made it clear they were still more worried about unemployment than a resurgence of inflation. As they have said for months, they will use ''all available tools'' to support the economy and will keep the benchmark federal funds rate at ''exceptionally low levels'' for the foreseeable future. Many analysts predict that the Fed will not raise the federal funds rate, which is the overnight rate at which banks lend reserves to each other, until late next year. 
 The latest assessment comes two years after the Fed, in August 2007, began the first of its emergency lending programs to banks when credit markets seized up in response to the crisis in the subprime lending market. 
 The central bank is not yet throttling back its biggest emergency credit programs. The Fed is barely halfway through its plan to buy $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities, a program that directly affects home mortgage rates and has had a much more noticeable effect than the Treasury bond program.
 Analysts said the Federal Reserve had entered a wait-and-see period, continuing to supply the economy with cheap money but not expanding or extending the emergency programs beyond what policy makers have already announced. 
 The government's preliminary estimates show that the economy's downturn slowed markedly in recent months, shrinking only 1 percent in the second quarter compared with 6.4 percent in the first. The rate of job losses has slowed sharply as well, though the nation still lost 247,000 jobs in July. 
 The most recent forecasts by Fed policy makers say that the economy will begin an unusually slow recovery in the second half of this year and pick up speed only gradually in 2010. Even if all goes according to plan, the Fed envisions that unemployment will climb from its already high level of 9.4 percent and average as much as 9.8 percent through the end of 2010. 
 Rising productivity rates in the United States are giving the Fed more maneuvering room to keep borrowing costs low without aggravating inflation. The productivity of workers, the amount produced per hour of work, shot up at an annual rate of more than 6 percent in the second quarter and has been climbing throughout the recession. 
 That is unusual for an economic downturn, but it means that wages have more room to climb before employers start to raise prices for their goods and services. 
 The Fed's decision to end its program of buying Treasury bonds appears to have reflected both practical and philosophical concerns among some policy makers.
 According to minutes of the Fed's previous policy meeting in June, some policy makers worried that the central bank's heavy purchases of new Treasury debt would be seen by investors as simply financing the federal government's huge deficits. That, they feared, would erode the Fed's credibility and heighten inflation expectations.
 ''Some of those who are less disposed to additional Treasury purchases worry about the perception in the markets that they are motivated by a desire to help the Treasury finance a mountain of debt,'' wrote Laurence H. Meyer, chief economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, and a former Fed governor, in a note to clients last week. 
 By contrast, Mr. Meyer said, most policy makers seem to agree that the mortgage-security program strikes at the heart of the economy's biggest problem -- the housing market. 
 On a practical level, analysts said, the Treasury-buying program never packed as much punch in the markets.
 At $300 billion, the Treasury purchases are only one-quarter as big as the mortgage program, and they have equaled only about one-third of the new issuance of Treasury securities, according to Ira Jersey, an interest-rate analyst at Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets. By contrast, the Fed purchases of government-guaranteed mortgage securities equaled more than 100 percent of new issuance in that market.
 Though mortgage rates have edged up in recent weeks, along with other long-term interest rates, the spread between mortgage rates and risk-free Treasury rates has narrowed by almost half since last November. 
 ''The program to buy Treasuries wasn't as effective as some of the other programs, like the mortgage-security program, so ending it made sense,'' Mr. Jersey said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on Wednesday at the New York Stock Exchange. The Fed said it would not change its benchmark interest rate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); BONDS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); HISTORY (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



335 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Rules Against China In Media Case

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Tim Arango and Gerry Shih contributed reporting from New York and Helene Cooper from Washington.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization gave the United States a victory on Wednesday in its trade battle with China, ruling that Beijing had violated international rules by limiting imports of books, songs and movies.
 The W.T.O. panel decision in Geneva buttresses growing complaints from the United States and Europe that China is becoming increasingly nationalistic in its trade policies. It also offers some hope that China will remove its restrictions on media and reduce rampant piracy of intellectual property, though the country can appeal. 
 But even if China changes its policy in light of the decision, Western companies could struggle to increase their sales anytime soon. The ruling does not affect a quota that caps at 20 the number of foreign films that can be released in Chinese movie theaters each year. 
 Also, because of piracy, Chinese consumers are so accustomed to paying very little for DVDs, or downloading movies or songs free on the Internet, that American movie companies already sell authorized DVDs of their movies for much less in China than in the United States -- and still struggle to find buyers. 
 Still, Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, praised the panel's legal finding. ''This decision promises to level the playing field for American companies working to distribute high-quality entertainment products in China,'' Mr. Kirk said, ''so that legitimate American products can get to market and beat out the pirates.''
 China's commerce ministry said in a statement on Thursday morning that it regretted the panel's decision and that it ''does not preclude the possibility of an appeal.'' W.T.O. rules allow appeals to a panel of senior trade experts; if a country loses its appeal and fails to negotiate settlement with the complaining country, the complainant can impose retaliatory trade sanctions. 
 For the American media industry, the ruling essentially means that the W.T.O. supports demands by United States movie studios, book and newspaper publishers, and record labels that they be allowed to sell more directly to the Chinese consumer, rather than first going through a middleman, often a state-owned enterprise, as China has required. It does not necessarily mean the Chinese consumer will have access to a broader array of American films, books and music -- although those industries hope that may eventually occur.
 ''American companies now have the right to trade without going through a Chinese intermediary at the border,'' said James Bacchus, a lawyer at Greenberg Traurig in Washington who represented the China Copyright Alliance, a consortium of media companies, in the case.
 Dan Glickman, chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America, acknowledged that the decision might not immediately result in a wider array of American movies available to the Chinese consumer.
 ''I wouldn't say it will have a night-and-day, revolutionary impact right away,'' he said. However, he added, ''It's hard for me to believe that the import quota, which has been in effect for 10 years, will be there in perpetuity with this decision.''
 Either side may appeal the panel's ruling. It is difficult, although not impossible, for a panel decision like this one to clear the way for the petitioning country to impose trade sanctions on the country that broke the rules. 
 The ruling goes to the heart of one of the biggest trade issues pending between China and the West: whether intellectual property, like copyrighted songs, books and movies, should be granted the same kind of protection from discriminatory trade practices as manufactured goods.
 China has enjoyed double-digit economic growth through most of the last three decades in part because of rapid expansion of exports, virtually all of which have been manufactured goods. But Chinese imports have grown much more slowly, particularly if imports of goods for export are excluded, like computer chips from Japan that are assembled in China into consumer electronics for shipment to the United States.
 One reason for the slow growth in imports has been China's restrictions on imported books and other content. Demand is met by pirated copies made in China; the latest Hollywood movies are on DVDs on street corners across China within days of their release, for $1 or less.
 In its petition to the W.T.O., the United States criticized China's requirement that most copyrighted material be imported through a few government-designated companies, which tend to be wholly owned or majority-owned by the government. The restrictions also required foreign financial news services to operate through a government-designated distributor.
 The panel condemned this, saying in its report that ''it also appears that foreign individuals and enterprises, including those not invested or registered in China, are accorded treatment less favorable than that accorded to enterprises in China with respect to the right to trade.''
 Many of these restrictions, like limiting the number of foreign movies that can be shown each year in Chinese theaters, have been aimed partly at limiting foreign influence in China but also at sheltering domestic industries.
 The panel stopped short of endorsing an American requests for a ruling on whether Chinese censorship had unfairly restricted imports. The panel said that this question was outside its purview; for the same reason, the panel also declined to rule on whether China's approval processes were too onerous for would-be distributors of imported entertainment.
 Like the United Nations, the W.T.O. has limited power to enforce decisions. But criticism from the W.T.O. can shame countries, and panel rulings against other countries have frequently become the basis for bilateral or multilateral negotiations that result in policy changes.
 The Bush administration filed the original complaint in 2007, partly to head off possible legislation requiring a more confrontational trade policy toward China. The Obama administration now faces pressure from the Democratic majority in Congress to take more assertive action in response to China's trade surplus during the recession, and could use the ruling as evidence that the issue is being addressed. It may also use the victory as a precedent to take more cases against China to the W.T.O., said Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. 
 But while China has lost two other W.T.O. panel rulings in the last 13 months, regarding high taxes on imported auto parts and lax enforcement of counterfeiting laws, China has not changed its policies in either case.
 ''They've got a poor record of compliance. They keep filing appeals,'' said Lyle Vander Schaaf, a partner in Washington at the law firm Bryan Cave who specializes in W.T.O. dispute panels and has not advised either side in any of the three panel decisions against China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker in Taiyuan, China, helps to destroy pirated CDs and DVDs during a campaign in April against copyright infringement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
 Pirated DVDs, sold openly at a market in northeast China, cost less than $1, which is steep competition for legitimate discs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); ONLINE PIRACY (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); FILM GENRES (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (66%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



336 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Widened as Imports Rose in June

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The gap between what the United States imports and what it exports widened in June, the government reported on Wednesday. 
 But economists saw some good news in the larger deficit, which had narrowed in recent months as the volume of trade between the United States and the rest of the world dwindled. The value of imports rose in June for the first time in nearly a year, and American exports increased from a month earlier, though not as much as imports. 
 The $3.5 billion increase in imports primarily reflected rising costs of crude oil, fuel oils and other petroleum-based goods, but businesses and consumers in the United States were also buying more food and beverages from abroad, and demand for foreign-made cars rose.
 ''Growth in the rest of the world is picking up, and that's critical to emerge from the worst recession since the Great Depression,'' said Joseph Brusuelas, director at Moody'sEconomy.com.
 In July, the number of overseas manufacturers sending shipments to the United States increased by 7 percent, according to the private firm Panjiva, which tracks shipping. Still, the number of shipments from overseas was down 10 percent from last July.
 Over all, the trade deficit widened to $27 billion in June, from $26 billion in May, according to the Commerce Department. The United States imported a total of $152.8 billion in goods and services, and sent $125.8 billion to the rest of the world. 
 Economists had expected the trade gap to widen to $28.5 billion for the month.
 The figures suggested the worst was over for the global economy, economists said, and that demand for American-made goods was picking up. The United States sent more capital goods like civilian aircraft, semiconductors and industrial machines to other countries, and also exported more industrial supplies.
 ''That's what gives me a little bit more optimism here,'' Mr. Brusuelas said. ''That's what we do -- Boeing, semiconductors and telecom equipment. The only thing missing was computer accessories.'' 
 Exports of computer accessories dropped $32 million for the month.
 In July 2008, the trade deficit exploded to $65 billion as crude oil prices soared to $145 a barrel. But the gap between imports and exports later shrank as the global financial crisis rattled economies around the world, sending oil prices to nearly $30 a barrel and reducing consumer and business demand in the United States.
 Exports have picked up for two months since touching bottom in April, and economists said the figures on Wednesday would probably presage growth during the third quarter, as businesses restart production and restock their depleted inventories. The economy shrank at an annual pace of 1 percent in the second quarter, and most economists expect it to be flat or grow slowly in the third quarter.
 In June, the United States trade deficit with China grew to $18.4 billion while the deficit with oil-producing OPEC countries grew to $5.9 billion. 
 ''Exports should continue to grow in the months ahead because global economic activity is turning positive,'' Abiel Reinhart, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, wrote in a research note. ''Nonpetroleum imports should also start to recover soon because of rising domestic demand.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A container ship at the Georgia Port Authority's terminal in Garden City, Ga. The value of imports rose largely because of the rising cost of petroleum products.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



337 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Health Reform and Small Business

 BODY:
The impact on small businesses has become a flashpoint in the increasingly raucous debate over health care reform. Trade associations are charging that the pending bills -- which would require all businesses to provide coverage to their employees or pay a penalty -- would place a huge financial burden on their members. Republican leaders are doing their best to inflame the fears and opposition of small business owners. 
 These proprietors would be wise to ignore the rhetoric and take a closer look. A vast majority of small businesses and their workers are likely to benefit greatly. They should be supporting, not opposing, reform. 
 It is a little recognized fact that some 70 percent of uninsured Americans come from families with one or two full-time workers. Most of those workers are employed by small businesses that don't offer them health benefits or offer coverage that they can't afford. 
 Small businesses would reap substantial benefits if their employees were insured. Their work forces would likely become healthier, and they would have an easier time attracting or holding talented employees. Even more striking, with health care reform, small firms could buy insurance at substantially lower rates. Lobbyists issue dire warnings that small businesses won't have the money to pay for coverage or to pay the penalties and will have to eliminate a huge number of jobs: more than one million under an early House bill, according to the National Federation of Independent Business. 
 Such fears are grossly overblown. 
 A vast majority of the nation's small employers -- those who have 25 or fewer workers in the Senate health bill or annual payrolls of $500,000 or less in the House version -- would likely be exempted from the mandate. 
 An analysis by Jonathan Gruber, a respected health economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, concluded that those small businesses that are not exempt would see little impact on employment or profits, although employers would reduce wages to compensate for providing added benefits. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the chief arbiter of the impact of legislation, has come to similar conclusions. 
 What's been most lost in the furor is how much most small businesses would benefit from provisions that should make insurance more affordable -- for businesses that already provide coverage and for those that have been deterred from providing coverage by cost. 
 Small businesses that currently offer coverage often pay significantly more per worker than larger employers do for the same coverage. Under all of the current bills, the smallest employers would gain quick access to new insurance exchanges -- where plans would compete for their business with rates comparable to those enjoyed by large employers. (In subsequent years, slightly bigger firms and possibly even medium-size firms would likely gain access to the exchanges as well.) 
 And many small businesses with low-wage workers would be eligible for substantial tax credits to subsidize their coverage. 
 Still, not all small firms would benefit. One government estimate suggests that 39,000 firms (out of a total of six million small and large employers in the country) would have to start providing benefits or pay a penalty, and another 240,000 that do provide benefits would have to increase their subsidy levels. The penalties for not offering coverage could be relatively small ($750 per worker after exempting the first 25 workers under the Senate bill) or quite substantial (reaching an estimated $2,800 per worker for some firms under the House bill). 
 There is no question that the cost of coverage -- which currently averages about $5,000 per individual or $13,000 per family -- or paying fines could take a substantial bite out of the profits of some firms, forcing them to accept lower earnings, reduce wages, shed some jobs or raise prices. 
 Trade groups say the main reason small firms don't provide coverage is that they can't afford to, and they complain that there is little in the reform bills that would reduce medical costs any time soon. But in making that argument, they conflate two issues. It is true that deep-seated reform of the health care delivery system will take years to reduce medical costs. But the cost of health insurance for small businesses could drop quickly once the exchanges are open.
 While some small percentage of companies will suffer, there are good reasons for requiring as many companies as possible to ''play'' -- by offering coverage -- or ''pay'' by paying a penalty. The most important is that the penalties would help deter employers from dropping their own coverage. The number of companies offering health insurance to their workers has been declining steadily, mostly among small firms, and it is important not to accelerate that erosion. 
 The play-or-pay provisions could also raise significant money to help cover the uninsured. The penalties alone could raise $52 billion over a decade under the Senate health committee bill and probably much more under the House bill. We see no easy way to ease the pain of the minority of firms that will face very substantial new costs. We'd be inclined to suggest hardship exemptions were it not for the likelihood that creative accountants might make every firm look like a hardship case. 
 A bipartisan group within the Senate Finance Committee is considering dropping the employer mandate and substituting a requirement that employers pay only for those workers who end up with government-subsidized coverage. That seems a poor approach because it could deter employers from hiring low-income workers that could saddle them with high subsidy costs. 
 It makes good sense to us to require small businesses to contribute to solving a problem that mostly affects their own workers. There also seems little doubt that the small business community would be one of the biggest winners from health care reform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



338 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Life, Art and Chickens, Afloat in the Harbor

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

DATELINE: ABOARD THE WATERPOD, in New York Harbor 

 BODY:
-- ''One, two, three: Heave! One, two, three: Heave!'' Perched nearly 20 feet high at the top of a metal dome on this listing barge, Alison Ward, an artist, was acting as a foreman, supervising as a half-dozen volunteers struggled to pull a heavy vinyl cover over the structure. It was just past 10 a.m. on a blazing Sunday in July, and the public was due to start coming aboard soon -- too soon, Ms. Ward felt. 
 ''How long until we're descended upon?'' she called to her crew. For a draining hour she and the others had worked the tarp, stitched together from discarded billboards, up and over the structure, which for the moment resembled a Buckminster Fuller-designed jungle gym. 
 For the last two months artists have been floating around New York City on the Waterpod, a 3,000-square-foot experiment in community living and artistry. Founded by Mary Mattingly, whose medium is mainly photography, it was envisioned as a self-sustaining living space, an eco- and art-friendly sphere that could be recreated in the future, when land resources might be scarce. Preparing for the project, Ms. Mattingly thought about hardship and utopia. And so the Waterpod -- at least that part of it that is not a commercial shipping barge, whose rental was backed by dozens of public and private groups -- was built from donations and recyclables. Its systems run on solar power; its crew grows its own greens, collects its own rainwater. These things cared for each day, the notion was that the crew could work on more creative pursuits.
 In practice, however, the Waterpod has turned out to be more an experiment in sociability and isolation, aesthetic vision and mass utility, organization and freedom, and, mostly, endurance.
 ''Frankly, I don't think any of us, when we started, knew how much work it would be,'' Ms. Ward, 37, said. ''Building it was hard, but I thought once we got it up and running, we would be able to, you know, make art.'' This was an assessment that Ms. Mattingly, 30, echoed and one that has not yet come to pass. ''It has challenged everyone,'' Ms. Ward said, ''on all levels -- levels of comfort, levels of intellect.''
 Both Ms. Ward and Ms. Mattingly gave up their apartments and have been living aboard the Waterpod full time since it was launched on June 12, the only two people to do so. Otherwise the crew has included a rotating cast of artists and hangers-on, some with relevant experience in gardening or carpentry or maritime life, experience that both women said they did not have before starting the project. 
 Over two live-in visits a month apart, this reporter became one of the crew, pitching in on the dome cover-raising and daily tasks like feeding the chickens -- four hens produce breakfast, lunch and dinner -- and tending the vegetable gardens that line the boat's rails. Though it remains docked in one location for two weeks at a time -- the Pod, as its residents call it, is currently tied up at Pier 5 in the East River, below Brooklyn Heights -- its mooring lines and gangplanks need frequent attention, as do the systems that make it livable. (The less said about maintaining the dry-composting toilet, the better.) ''There's a never-ending list of things to do: It's a ship. It's a farm. It's an art residence. It's an installation,'' Ms. Ward said. 
 ''It's not a Burning Man camp,'' said John McGarvey, 43, the Waterpod's executive director and a veteran of that annual Nevada festival. Perhaps not, but it does attract some of the same spirit: people like Dallas Pesola, who gave his age as ''ageless'' and arrived that July morning to help put up the dome cover wearing a captain's hat, a sarong and no shirt, brandishing a bunch of plastic swords taken from the party where he'd just stayed up all night. 
 Mr. Pesola and a friend, Elisa Blynn, 37, an artist and performer from the East Village, did much of the heavy lifting on the day's projects. But then Ms. Blynn decided to spray paint a wavy silver border around one of the garden beds. Cool? Debatable. Common? You bet.
 ''People get on board, and they just start painting,'' said Ian Daniel, the Waterpod's residency curator, responsible for scheduling official artist visits and coordinating events. ''I can't even pinpoint how it happens.'' He added: ''Mary's aesthetic is this futuristic, apocalyptic what-if, but people come on board and want to be a part of it. It seems like free living, like on a commune.'' (Mr. Daniel, 27, should know; he lived on one, in Oregon, where he learned how to practice sustainable agriculture.)
 Eve K. Tremblay, a Canadian-born artist who was based in Berlin until she came to work and live on the Pod this year, was not happy with the result of all this go-with-the-flowness. ''It's looking a bit too hippy right now,'' she said, adding: ''I'm a bit of a critical voice on this project. There is very little time to read or do art. It takes a lot of work to do sustainability. And sometimes it feels like Frankenstein, like we've created this organism that has a life of its own.''
 A few weeks later Ms. Tremblay moved out. Mr. Daniel cut down on his day job as a waiter at the boutique Standard Hotel and took her place on the barge. Though he had trouble sleeping on board and shared the disdain for the Burning Man vibe -- he had gently suggested to some of the group that perhaps they should, you know, wear shirts -- he was excited about the prospect of organizing and promoting shows. Soon the silver paint Ms. Blynn had applied was gone.
 Public enthusiasm for the project has been voracious. Situated at the intersection of recession escapism, do-it-yourself culture and ecomania, the Pod neatly sums up many current lifestyle trends -- the compost container gets a lot of ''this is how we should do it at home'' comments from visitors. 
 ''It's navigating our relationship with the environment in a capacity that doesn't occur when you live in the city,'' said Matthew Aaron Goodman, 34, a novelist from Brooklyn who visited the Waterpod when it was docked at Governors Island in July. ''The advancement of technology has limited our ability to know what we can do with our own capacity. Something like this reminds us.''
 He turned to his wife, Nadia Murray Goodman, 34, a teacher. ''We need to reassess what we're doing with our lives,'' he said. ''We should be taking junk boats around the world.''
 That kind of support helps balance the constant stream of nosy poking around -- what several Pod livers called ''the zoo animal aspect.'' The lack of onboard privacy, coupled with the isolation from the outside world (only Ms. Mattingly has an Internet connection) has been one of the greatest challenges, residents said. 
 ''You're cut off from most media, and you're focused on survival aspects,'' said Ms. Mattingly, who has left the Pod only three times since it was launched. (Ms. Ward still goes to her studio in Lower Manhattan four times a week.) ''We want to have those two hours a day where no one is coming into your room asking silly questions.'' 
 Two months in, the residents of the Waterpod are finally making those kind of allowances for themselves. They have begun to understand how to manage the onboard systems and structure their days, and the curatorial program has gone from didactic (lectures about local oysters) to hip, with a performance by the electro duo Yacht. The rewards of life on board have also slowly become evident: diving off the raft and into the cool waters of the harbor; picking fresh lettuces, nasturtium flowers and herbs off the bow for a lunchtime salad; showing off the stunning skyline views to visiting friends. 
 And every night, after the public leaves, can feel like a covert but elegant dinner party, with candles and thoughtfully prepared food, conversation flowing under the dome as urban life zooms by, the coda to an exhausting but fulfilling day. 
 ''That's what I like about living on the Pod,'' Ms. Ward said, ''every moment is accounted for, every action.'' She added, ''It's a constantly shifting thing, and that's what art always is.'' 
 For her part Ms. Mattingly, who said she felt they'd reached a turning point, added that she planned to extend the project through October and hoped someone would take it over after that. 
 In the meantime there are some moments of peace. Just off the coast of Brooklyn on Sunday the sky was overcast and the barge quiet, with no public events scheduled and few visitors aboard. Mayra Cimet, an eager 22-year-old student, worked on a rope installation with no purpose beyond the aesthetic. David Smith, a visiting artist, discussed his work with Ms. Mattingly. Mr. Daniel showed a new volunteer the gray-water system. Ms. Ward cooked. The chickens clucked, the boat rocked. The Waterpod was, for better or worse, its own little universe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayra Cimet reattaching a piece of tarp to a dome aboard the Waterpod, a barge docked on the waterfront at Joralemon Street in Brooklyn this week.(C1)
Visitors enjoying an eco-friendly, artistic environment with the crew members aboard the barge Waterpod on the Brooklyn waterfront over the weekend.
The band I'll Be John Brown performing at a party on the Waterpod last weekend. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Left, Mary Mattingly, with the vegetable garden
 and, right, the barge at Governors Island in July.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE AND LEFT, BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



339 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: 4 on Rio Tinto's China Staff Won't Face Spying Charge

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
Late Tuesday night, Chinese officials called Australian diplomats to reveal a surprising about-face: they had decided not to pursue state secrets charges against four employees of the British-Australian mining company Rio Tinto, according to people briefed on the talks.
 The four employees, including an Australian citizen, had been detained for six weeks, setting off international expressions of concern that foreigners doing business in the country could fall victim to the legal morass of China's expansive state secrets laws. 
 But on Tuesday the four were formally arrested on suspicions of commercial bribery and trade secrets infringement -- serious charges, but far less explosive than a possible charge of espionage, which had raised the prospect of a closed-door trial and harsh penalties.
 ''Cooler heads prevailed,'' said David Kelly, a professor at the University of Technology in Sydney's China Research Center.
 The decision to bring only the lower charges raised questions and some tentative hopes about China's evolving definition of state secrets and its treatment of foreigners doing business here. Analysts said the move also suggested that China did not always speak with a single voice even when it came to high-level legal cases, as interest groups compete to influence how the ruling Communist Party, security forces and the courts handle such matters.
 China is the world's leading steel maker and the biggest importer of iron ore, which is used to make steel. Rio Tinto's negotiations with China over the price of iron ore help establish a global price for sale of that commodity to China, and price talks were at a delicate stage when security officials detained the four employees on July 5.
 Dropping the espionage charge may help defuse the diplomatic and international furor that has built over the past month, experts say. Officials pulled back after weeks of pressure from Australia and growing concern in the international business community about a lack of transparency in the case.
 Last month, Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, cautioned Beijing that the world was watching the case. And during a recent trip to China, Gary Locke, the United States commerce secretary, said that American businessmen had also expressed concern about foreign executives working here.
 Top officials and state-run news media had said that security officials had strong evidence of the theft of state secrets in the case. The government also said the four Rio Tinto employees caused ''enormous economic losses'' to China and its state-controlled steel makers.
 For its part, Rio Tinto has strongly denied any wrongdoing, insisting its employees had followed its strict ethics guidelines.
 Just last weekend, an article posted on a Web site affiliated with China's state secrets bureau claimed that Rio's deceit had cost China $100 billion in losses over six years, even though the value of the country's iron imports during that time was about $90 billion, according to some analysts.
 That Web site was shuttered Monday, and a Chinese official told Dow Jones news agency that no one had been authorized to speak publicly about the case.
 The article's sweeping allegations seem even more puzzling now, analysts say, because it came just days before the government decided not to pursue charges of spying.
 Nicholas C. Howson, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School and a China legal specialist, says it is not uncommon for government agencies to release what appear to be contradictory positions, since various departments play to their own constituencies.
 ''The temptation is for us to look at China as monolithic,'' Mr. Howson said. ''But there are competing forces.''
 He continued, ''My sense is that this is the state security bureau running a little amok.''
 The turnabout was welcomed by Rio Tinto. Sam Walsh, the company's chief executive, also said the company was ready for the defense: ''From all the information available to us, we continue to believe that our employees have acted properly and ethically in their business dealings in China.''
 Some Chinese officials also described the decision on the charges as an important signal. ''The Rio Tinto case showed the Chinese government's resolution to create and maintain a competitive, open and fair market environment in the country,'' Fu Ziying, the vice minister of commerce, said Wednesday.
 Legal experts say that had the four employees been charged under China's tough but vague state secrets law, they might have been tried in secrecy, with some evidence withheld even from their own lawyers.
 ''It doesn't mean that it won't come back to state secrets,'' said Jerome A. Cohen, a professor of law at New York University. ''We don't know what the final configuration will be. But by not pursuing the state secrets charges, it seems they didn't want to blow things up at a diplomatic level.''
 Many questions remain unanswered in the case, legal experts say. Among them: if China has evidence that Rio Tinto engaged in bribery, why has it yet to bring any charges against the company itself? It is also not clear why the police or prosecutors have yet to take legal action against Chinese individuals or companies that allegedly received bribes in exchange for providing inside information.
 Still, legal scholars say the softening of the charges could be a step forward for legal reform.
 Mr. Cohen said the case seemed likely to influence current deliberations to revise the country's state secrets law.
 ''Often, institutional reforms come from mistakes or accidents,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''I think it's likely cases of this nature won't start out this way again, with all that harsh rhetoric.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ETHICS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (92%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (92%); RIO (NYSE) (92%); RIO (LSE) (92%); RIO (ASX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%)

PERSON: KEVIN RUDD (58%); GARY LOCKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%) EAST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (99%); AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



340 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Rub On, Spray On, Or No Tan at All?

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
FOR many of us, the news that tanning beds are now considered a cancer risk on par with cigarettes and asbestos was less an ''aha'' moment than confirmation of a truth we'd long suspected: there is no such thing as a healthy tan, at least not one caused by UV rays.
 After reviewing previous studies, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, part of the World Health Organization, reclassified tanning beds from ''probably carcinogenic'' to simply ''carcinogenic,'' saying the risk of melanoma increases by 75 percent in people who begin using tanning beds before the age of 30. The agency's research was published on The Lancet Oncology's Web site last month. 
 It is too soon to tell how the tanning bed business will be affected. James Oliver, chief executive of Beach Bum Tanning, with more than 25 salons in New York state, said ''people are coming in and asking about it, but we have not seen a decrease in business.'' But the study is prompting many in the blogging community to ponder if ''pale is the new tan.'' 
 Others wonder if sunless tanning options that don't rely on UV rays -- spray tanning, bronzers and tanning creams -- may benefit from the study.
 Natalie Cupid, manager of Sundara, a spray-tan salon in Midtown, said that even before the study she had noticed a move away from the UV solution. ''A lot of our clients have not sworn off beds but have definitely become more aware that they are not as healthy as perceived,'' she said.
 One Sundara client, Caroline Brennan, 32, is among those who still wants a tan, but without the UV rays. She has given up tanning beds for good, she says. Spray tanning allows her to stay close to her natural hue, and not ''look like the woman from 'Something About Mary,' '' she said, referring to Magda, the super-tanned character in the film. 
 Indeed, many companies that formulate tanning creams and sprays have tweaked their products for those who want a more subtle tan. Nearly all still rely on DHA, or docosahexaenoic acid, an omega-3 fatty acid, which causes a chemical reaction with the amino acids in dead skin that turns it brown. But by balancing DHA with other agents like erythrulose, a natural keto-sugar that also reacts with amino acids, some manufacturers, including Fake Bake and Vani-T, have inched toward a natural looking tan, as opposed to the Oompa-Loompa orange often achieved in the industry's youth in the 1990s.
 ''We have seen some innovation in self tanning with a lot of products getting better and better,'' Karen Grant, an analyst with the NPD Group, said. ''There's less of an orange glow, and less streaking.''
 Manufacturers are also adding anti-aging and moisturizing elements. The Jergens Natural Glow line, for instance, advertises itself as a moisturizer first and tanner second; it contains smaller traces of DHA that have a gradual but cumulative effect, producing a tan after repeated use.
 Such innovations have not been sufficient to keep the market growing, however. Sales of tanning lotions and sprays began declining in 2007, and dropped about 20 percent in 2008, according to NPD. Those declines continued through the first quarter of this year.
 Folks in the sunless tanning industry are quick to blame the economy for the decline, but others see it as a change in aesthetics. 
 Nina Jablonski, an anthropology professor at Penn State and author of ''Skin: A Natural History,'' has observed a gravitation toward ''accepting and enhancing what you've got'' rather than ''making a quantum leap in skin color,'' thanks in part to celebrities like Nicole Kidman and Scarlett Johansson who have gone public with their aversion to tanning. The tanning-bed cancer study will likely add to that sentiment.
 ''What we're seeing is growth of the natural trend as people are looking toward a more natural-looking skin,'' Ms. Grant from NPD said. ''The heavily baked look is not as much at the forefront as it was.''
 Manufacturers have responded to the ''natural'' trend by adding new botanical ingredients. A recent big seller among sunless tanners was Clarins Delicious Self-Tanning Cream, which contains cocoa and something called ''caramel micro pearls.''
 And early next year, Fake Bake, a company in Tulsa, Okla., that's been turning people brown(ish) since 1996, will unveil a tanning face cream that contains the stem cells of apples, which the company claims have an anti-aging effect.
 Others are focusing on ''antioxidants, paraben-free products and natural instant bronzers such as walnut shell and coffee bean extracts, just to name a few,'' said Rick Norvell of Norvell Sunless, which produces high-end tanning sprays for salons.
 Even Lindsay Lohan is getting in on the action, having recently introduced a ''natural'' self tanner called Sevin Nyne that deploys a combination of DHA and cocoa. She was quickly named in a lawsuit by a Florida chemist claiming she stole the formula. Miss Lohan responded last month to the suit via Twitter: ''No formula was stolen for Sevin Nyne! It's a woman looking for a payday. That's it!''
 Defenders of tanning beds are not ready to concede defeat. Dan Humiston, president of the Indoor Tanning Association, railed against the media's reaction to the study, which he says only confirmed what everyone already knew: a burn from an indoor tan is as dangerous as one obtained at the beach. Time spent in the sun or on a tanning bed is all about moderation, Mr. Humiston said. ''People are so fanatical about abstinence as their only option,'' he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Skin Deep column last Thursday, about sunless tanning products, misidentified the active ingredient used in most tanning sprays and creams. The ingredient is dihydroxyacetone, known as DHA, and it is derived primarily from plants; it is not docosahexaenoic acid, also known as DHA, an omega-3 fatty acid found in fish oils.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO SUNSCREEN REQUIRED: A customer gets a spray tan (hold the UV rays) at Sundara, an airbrush tanning salon in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 HOLD THE SUN: Lindsay Lohan has introduced a tanning mist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES FOR WET REPUBLIC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); ONCOLOGY (90%); TANNING SALONS (90%); CARCINOGENS (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (88%); SKIN CANCER (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL AGENCY FOR RESEARCH ON CANCER (57%)

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



341 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Disclosing Mortgage Risks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Safe at Home,'' by Dalton Conley (Op-Ed, Aug. 4): 
 As a mortgage banker and broker for 28 years, I agree with Mr. Conley's contention that there are ways to increase access to home purchases for low-income families. But instead of an expensive mortgage insurance program for ''low-wealth'' home buyers, it would be far easier to set up better risk disclosures.
 Anyone applying for an adjustable rate mortgage in the 1980s, for example, had to read and acknowledge that he or she understood a worst-case scenario. This meant explaining what the monthly payment could be at the maximum interest rate.
 I saw those requirements slowly edited out of the application packages in the 1990s, as the real estate boom picked up steam. And by this decade, when subprime loans became common, there were few requirements, if any, to disclose those risks. It was up to conscientious lenders and brokers to fill the knowledge gap. 
 Now we know why. The lenders, and perhaps their investors, didn't want to know about those risks either.
 Harlan Green Santa Barbara, Calif., Aug. 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LOAN BROKERS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (72%); FAMILY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



342 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: For Lloyds, A Leader And a Test

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
On paper, Winfried F. W. Bischoff -- whose most recent job was a brief stint at the helm of the heavily damaged Citigroup -- has all the qualities one would expect in an incoming chairman of the equally troubled Lloyds Banking Group, one of Britain's most storied banking names. 
 Experienced, collegial and steeped in integrity, he has ties that extend far beyond finance and into government and society at large. In short, he is the very picture of a City of London grandee. 
 ''Win is a real smoothie,'' said Andrew Hilton, director of the Center for the Study of Financial Innovation here. ''He is one of these people who paid extra for the shine when he came out of the car wash.'' 
 But at a time when the financial sector in Britain, the United States and elsewhere is being pressed to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, some have been asking whether the talents that make Mr. Bischoff a consummate insider are what is needed to lead Lloyds, and Britain's other shattered banks, onto a new path. 
 ''Win is not seen as a change agent,'' said Alison J. Carnwath, a veteran City figure who has worked with Mr. Bischoff. ''He is a builder, a consensus guy -- someone who can get people to work together. But he is not seen as someone who will effect change.'' 
 Mr. Bischoff was tapped to steer Lloyds toward recovery after the former chief executive, Victor Blank, was ousted last month for arranging an ill-fated takeover of HBOS, a British bank whose troubles hobbled Lloyds. 
 But Mr. Bischoff has a lot to prove. His brief tenure as the chairman of Citigroup, which he joined in 2000, came to a humiliating end in January, when he was replaced by Richard D. Parsons. Although Mr. Bischoff was always meant to be a caretaker, his lack of influence in Washington and perceptions that he took a largely back seat role in the bank's daily affairs compromised his effectiveness, as the financial crisis pushed Citigroup toward the abyss. 
 Now, getting a call for help from his own British government, which owns 43 percent of Lloyds, may provide a chance to secure a measure of redemption after his final tumultuous year at Citigroup.
 The question of who should lead the fallen banks that now have governments as their largest shareholder has vexed regulators on both sides of the Atlantic. 
 At Citigroup, where American taxpayers hold a 36 percent stake, regulators have expressed doubts privately about whether Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive, has the vision and heft to reinvent the financial behemoth.
 And at Bank of America, which also received billions in bailout money, it remains uncertain whether Kenneth D. Lewis, already stripped of his chairman title, commands enough support to continue overseeing his bank's halting recovery. 
 An early test of Mr. Bischoff's leadership is likely to come when the European Commission presses Lloyds to reduce its size, both for competitive reasons and to reduce the risk from banks considered too big to fail. 
 Mr. Bischoff, 68, declined to comment for this article. But his many friends and supporters here say they believe he will fare better on his home turf of London than he did in the United States. 
 ''Win inspires people, and that should stand him in good stead at Lloyds,'' said Ms. Carnwath, who worked with Mr. Bischoff closely when he was at Schroders, which he ran until it was acquired by Citigroup in 2000.
 Mr. Bischoff's clout seemed to qualify him for the role of Citigroup's interim chief executive in November 2007, when Charles O. Prince III stepped down after billions of dollars of subprime losses mounted on his watch. After Robert E. Rubin, Citigroup's lead director at the time, declined to take over, the bank turned to Mr. Bischoff, who was then the chairman of Citigroup Europe. 
 At Citigroup, Mr. Bischoff's central accomplishment was recognizing immediately the need to raise equity. Within weeks of taking over, he and Mr. Rubin secured $7.5 billion from Abu Dhabi. Early in 2008, Citi tapped the markets again, a decision that, at the time, was not widely supported inside the bank. 
 ''Win does not shirk when the ball goes into the rough,'' said Robert Swannell, a senior adviser at Citi Europe. ''He recognized early on that there was a need for equity.'' 
 But the subsequent infighting took its toll on Mr. Bischoff, and his departure was preceded by months of leaks to reporters and unattributed sniping from Citigroup board members. 
 Although he kept quiet, he was angry and frustrated, associates say. He privately told some of his closest friends that the experience was an undeserved blot on an otherwise distinguished career in finance, which included a long run as the chief executive of Schroders, the venerable London bank. 
 Despite his handsome shock of white hair, his bespoke suits and handmade Hong Kong shirts initialed WFWB, and a ruddy face that can shade pink, Mr. Bischoff, according to those who know him, belies the stereotype of an aristocratic banker. 
 ''He is not at all the stuffy Brit,'' said Richard Roberts, a financial historian and the author of ''Schroders: Merchants and Bankers.'' ''Bischoff was a true internationalist -- he rolled up his sleeves and got on with it.'' 
 His decision in January 2000 to sell Schroders' investment banking business to Citigroup for $:1.3 billion ($2.1 billion; the firm was valued at about $:30 million when he took over) could hardly have been better timed. He had just earned a knighthood, and he cashed out at the top of the market, just months before equities plunged. Beyond the millions he made from his personal stake, he was also awarded a $:5 million bonus by the Schroders board. 
 At Citigroup, Mr. Bischoff received total compensation of $7.4 million in 2007. In 2008, along with other top executives, he received no bonus, though he did receive $146,435 as a payout from an internal Citigroup hedge fund. 
 Now, as he turns his eyes to Lloyds, he will have to deal with another troubled victim of the financial crisis. Last week, Lloyds reported $:4 billion in first-half losses, a legacy of its disastrous merger with HBOS. As chairman, Mr. Bischoff will be paid $:700,000 ($1.2 million) a year and will not be eligible for a bonus.
 Mr. Bischoff will not formally take over until Sept. 15, but he will quickly have to decide the fate of the chief executive, J. Eric Daniels, also a Citigroup veteran, who has led Lloyds since 2003.
 Most urgent, Mr. Bischoff must decide whether he supports a proposal by Mr. Daniels that Lloyds consider opting out of a Treasury plan to insure its troubled assets -- and thus escape majority control by the government -- by trying to raise as much as $:15 billion in a rights issue. 
 With doubts still manifest about the health of the Lloyds balance sheet, some investors have described the gambit as a premature return to business as usual. And according to a person familiar with Mr. Bischoff's thinking, he agrees. A stickler for board protocol, Mr. Bischoff has not yet imposed his view on the board, people close to him say. Still, his lack of support for the measure hints at a more realistic view of the bank's condition than has been expressed by Mr. Daniels -- and perhaps the first major disagreement between the two men.
 ''Clearly the bank has some big strategic decisions to take,'' said Richard Lambert, who heads the Confederation of Business Industry, Britain's main business lobby, and who served recently on a government-backed commission on Britain's financial competitiveness that Mr. Bischoff led. ''But Win is very good at chairing meetings.'' 
 As to whether these meetings will bear fruit, Mr. Lambert could only guess. 
 ''Is he the right person? I hope so -- I don't know. Who can tell?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Winfried Bischoff was frustrated by his time at Citigroup.(pg. B1)
 Winfried Bischoff was for many years the chief executive of Schroders, a London bank, until it was acquired by Citigroup.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG RUTTLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); TAKEOVERS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%)

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (92%); LLOY (LSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); VIKRAM PANDIT (58%); KENNETH D LEWIS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



343 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports Agreement With UBS In Tax Case

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Swiss banking giant UBS and the Justice Department reached an accord on Wednesday that would force the bank to disclose the names of certain American clients suspected of tax evasion. 
 ''The parties have initialed agreements,'' Stuart Gibson, a Justice Department lawyer who is trying the case, said in a conference call on Wednesday with Judge Alan S. Gold of Federal District Court in Miami. 
 While it is unclear how many names will be released, the agreement could result in scores of wealthy Americans with offshore accounts having their identities revealed to the Internal Revenue Service. Many could face charges of tax evasion as well as big fines and back taxes.
 H. David Rosenbloom, a lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington and a former Treasury official, said Wednesday that he thought UBS would turn over about 5,000 names, probably those with the largest accounts who had been visited in the United States by Swiss-based bankers.
 A government official briefed on the matter who declined to be identified said Wednesday that the list would include those with offshore entities set up to disguise their true ownership.
 UBS and the Swiss government have been fighting efforts by the Justice Department to force it to disclose the names of 52,000 American clients of UBS suspected of offshore tax evasion. The moves have threatened to erode Swiss financial secrecy laws -- the bulwark of the Swiss economy -- and have shaken UBS and other private banks around the globe. The dispute also escalated into high-level talks with Swiss and American officials in Washington.
 In February, UBS agreed to pay $780 million to settle charges that it helped wealthy Americans evade taxes on nearly $20 billion hidden in offshore accounts. One day later, the Justice Department filed a civil suit seeking to force UBS to disclose 52,000 client names. Of the names on the agency's original list, prosecutors are focused on several thousand Americans with offshore accounts containing tens to hundreds of millions of dollars, according to a government official briefed on the matter.
 As the settlement talks have played out, a number of wealthy Americans have approached the I.R.S. to disclose their offshore accounts, in exchange for reduced penalties under an I.R.S program that ends Sept 23.
 UBS had fiercely resisted disclosure, arguing that doing so would cause it to violate Swiss banking laws. The Swiss government had said it would block UBS from turning over the names if ultimately ordered to do so, while the Justice Department said that it might consider indicting the bank if it ultimately refused to do so upon a judge's order.
 The chairman of UBS, Kaspar Villiger, said in a statement on Wednesday that ''the board of directors and the management of UBS are grateful that the two governments reached this agreement to resolve this issue, and we thank the Swiss government and the Swiss delegation that negotiated this settlement for their outstanding efforts.''
 Still, the settlement may not end UBS's woes. Andrew C. Hall, a lawyer in Miami, said that UBS could now face legal battles in Switzerland if account holders claimed UBS had violated Swiss bank secrecy laws. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (93%); TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); JUDGES (77%); PRIVATE BANKING (76%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (57%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (96%); CAPLIN & DRYSDALE CHARTERED (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (96%); UBS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



344 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; DRESS CODES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Hair, hair, hair, hair, hair, hair

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
ROBERT PATTINSON -- he of the wild, teased mane -- may stand alone in this summer's teenage-adulation market: Us Weekly published its first-ever ''bookazine'' about him and his ''Twilight'' co-stars, a decision Janice Min, then the editor, chalked up to a ''hunk recession.'' 
 His hair, however, has plenty of competition. There is a minor eruption of major hair atop the country's young male populace -- and, as hair is wont to do, it's growing.
 Curiously, the look is not one of style as much as degree. There is no army of winsomely tousled RPattz clones. Instead, there are Afros, mohawks, dreadlocks and pompadours. There are ''Idol''-ized punky pincushions, Allman-esque hippie cascades (with matching beards) and Bowie-style, parti-colored shags. And these are just the styles that have names. Often enough, these clever young dandies are crossbreeding styles into hybrids unknown to the Rock 'n' Roll Hair Hall of Fame. 
 As one might expect, they are proud of the fact. 
 Victor Jeffreys II, who has a giant Afro, refers proudly to what he calls his ''non-normative hair.'' Cameron Cooper, a fashion stylist, refers to his creatively shaved skull as ''the exclamation point at the end of my sentence.''
 These men are what Malcolm Gladwell might call hair outliers (and his own Afro would get him right into the club). Still, spotting them is not hard. Just nip into an edgy salon like Woodley & Bunny in Williamsburg, or run some fatally hip gantlet like the summertime Warm Up parties at P.S. 1 in Queens or openings at 3rd Ward in Bushwick, and you are all but sure to run headlong into an expressive excrescence or two.
 ''All of a sudden, a big wave of guys just want to experiment,'' said Marguerite Jukes, a stylist at the Bumble and bumble salon in the meatpacking district, where the shagadelic manes of the Broadway cast of ''Hair'' are faithfully kept up. ''No one just wants a trim anymore. There isn't one particular look: It's a little bit of everything.'' She has even become an expert at getting the look not quite perfect, ''so it looks like they cut it themselves in their bathroom.'' 
 Often guys who are after a more extreme look will drop the name of some rocker -- Robert Plant, Simon Le Bon, Robert Smith, Anthony Kiedis -- as inspiration. But what makes this curious trend even curiouser is how little connection the hair actually has to the moment, the man or the music that spawned it. That guy with the long, brown hair and beard may well have techno on his iPod, and the guy with the dyed blue shag is as likely to be drumming his fingers in time to death metal. 
 ''You can never tell what they're into from their hair,'' Ms. Jukes said. She pointed out that her boyfriend, Ben Koller of the metalcore band Converge, has gone for the early-1970s look of the teenage John Michael Osbourne (back when he was the lead singer of Black Sabbath). His band, however, favors a chaotic clash of punk and metal that makes Black Sabbath's 1970 hit ''Paranoid'' sound like Doris Day. And however you thought Adam Lambert's hairstyle pegged him, it was clear to ''American Idol'' audiences that musically, at least, the man's got range.
 Once upon a time -- say, 40 years ago this week, when long-hairs thronged to Woodstock by the hundreds of thousands -- you got a hairstyle to show the world your affiliation, to brandish a cultural identity defined by your musical tastes, your political views or how depressed you were. But such literal interpretations of hair appear to be utterly passe, even if the hairstyles themselves are not.
 ''I don't think it defines people at all anymore,'' said James Carpinello, who, six nights a week, dons a long blond wig and skintight white leather pants to play the fictional 1980s rocker Stacee Jaxx in Broadway's hilarious hair-metal musical ''Rock of Ages.'' Practicing for the role never felt quite right, he said, until the day he got to put on ''the hair.'' (He never calls it a wig.)
 ''I needed something, and it was the hair,'' he said, chuckling. ''It makes everything come together.'' 
 And now that ''the hair'' covers up his own, he has been inspired to let his own grow. He slicked it into a 1930s style for the Tony Awards, but that was only the beginning. ''I've got this thick pomade,'' he said, ''and I used that and kind of pulled my hair out so I looked like I'd stuck my finger in a socket. On the train people were looking at me like I was out of my mind, but I thought it was hysterical. Now I want to grow it out so I can have a ponytail.''
 Even though he swings a blond wig around for work, Mr. Carpinello may represent the more average guy, simply experimenting rather than going for an out-there style that, should an in-law or a job interview pop up, would call for a hat. Fashionable hair-care companies like Kiehl's, Shu Uemura and Bumble and bumble report that sales of the more extreme products -- strong gels, pomades, pastes and waxes -- are up sharply of late, with male customers accounting for much of the increase. But what comes out of the bathroom is anyone's guess.
 ''Back in the 1960s, the only important thing was length,'' said Michael McDonald, the costume (and hair) designer for the ''Hair'' Broadway revival. ''It wasn't until the 1970s, and the disco era, that men's hair started to really have 'style.' And then every moment had its look, so that now, in the 21st century, we've pretty much seen everything wacky you can do to your hair. It's all there to go back to and interpret.''
 Mr. McDonald can generally spot the inspirations. ''There's a little bit of everything,'' he said. ''Maybe it's a little Flock of Seagulls, maybe a little Backstreet Boys.'' But there the trail goes dead. If the hair is goth, the clothes might be skater-cum-prep, and the shoes rockabilly. ''It's all mixed up so beautifully,'' he said. ''It's really neat the way they can just cut and paste.''
 It may be jarring to casual onlookers -- those of us accustomed to thinking that hippie hair goes with pacifism and the Grateful Dead, while mohawks go with ''Anarchy in the U.K.'' -- but the guys who are taking the do but leaving its roots have no more qualms about it than a D.J. who samples from other songs. 
 ''I know I'm not a trailblazer,'' said Mr. Cooper, the fashion stylist. ''To me, it's just personal. It's a creative outlet.''
 And for some, having statement hair can be a way to avoid being pigeonholed. Mr. Jeffreys, who works as a hedge fund analyst and moonlights as a fine arts photographer, has had his Afro for several years, through college and various undergraduate jobs, because, first and foremost, it is easy to maintain -- just an occasional brushing.
 ''But it would be a lie to say I didn't like the way it looks,'' he said. Having been a cultural anthropology major at Duke who spent time in Ghana, he has long noticed how hair works as a kind of ID. 
 ''Hair really links you to community, whether you're a punk rocker or a woman who braids her hair a certain way because she's from Klikor,'' he said. As the son of a Costa Rican mother and a white American father, Mr. Jeffreys grew up keenly aware of the tiny visual cues people search for in determining approximately who a person is. His Afro, he said, kind of shorts out the process.
 ''Those things that our culture puts a lot of value on -- gender, race, sexuality, socio-economic class -- I've had to mediate them all toget anything done in my life, so I've tried not to get fixated on any of them.'' 
 For a generation that is, courtesy of the Internet, both disconnected from and connected to the past like no other before it, it makes sense that this point-and-click, cut-and-paste attitude should be present even in the one arena of style in which virtually every man grows his own. 
 So what if you find yourself wondering: Who is that guy? What's the deal with that hair? What does it all mean? To turn an old ad slogan on its head: Not even his hairdresser knows for sure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BOTTOM LEFT AND RIGHT, SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
SELF-EXPRESSION: Men with distinctive dos include, second from bottom right, Robert Pattinson and, above him, Victor Jeffreys II. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT PATTINSON, JASON MERRITT/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); POP & ROCK (72%)

PERSON: ROBERT PATTINSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



345 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: NASA Panel Grapples With Cost of Space Plans

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
The United States cannot afford to send humans anywhere beyond the space station -- especially Mars -- unless it wants to spend more money. 
 ''You just can't get there,'' Sally Ride, the former astronaut, said over and over again on Wednesday as she presented calculations of the costs and timetables of various proposed space missions, ranging from establishing a base on the Moon to touring asteroids to landing on Mars.
 Dr. Ride told a meeting of a panel that is investigating options for the future of the space program that she was still looking for proof that a human exploration program could be undertaken under the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's present budget. 
 In an afternoon of rambling discussion and argument on a stage at the International Trade Center in Washington, Norman Augustine, former chief executive of Lockheed Martin and chairman of the panel, said, ''If we do want a strong space program, we might have to face up to investing more.''
 NASA convened the panel in response to a request by President Obama and the Office of Science and Technology Policy in May. They have 19 days left, Dr. Augustine said, to present to Mr. Obama options for human spaceflight. Should NASA continue on the road set by President George W. Bush aimed at a base on the Moon or so something else? This was their last scheduled public meeting.
 Among the options the committee has to consider is whether to retire the space shuttle in 2010 as planned, or extend its life to 2011 or beyond, whether to dump the International Space Station in the ocean in 2016 (for which there is no money in the budget), whether to continue developing the Ares 1 and Ares 5 rockets to replace the shuttle, or to build something else -- and, of course, where to go in these shiny new rockets.
 Many committee members agreed that political considerations made it likely that the space station would survive and that the space shuttle would probably fly at least until 2011, and that some options should show that, but they argued about what other options should be in ''the Chinese menu,'' in the words of Jeff Greason, chief executive of XCOR Aerospace. 
 Unable to fit anything into the official budget, Dr. Ride and her colleagues tried to see how various programs would fit into an ''unconstrained budget,'' which would be allowed to overshoot it by up to $3 billion a year, then grow with inflation. 
 The best fit in that case was something called ''Deep Space,'' which would involve flybys of asteroids, the Moon or Mars and other interesting places in deep space, but not necessarily landing on the Moon or Mars. Under that plan, Dr. Ride reported, there could be missions every other year in the 2020s past asteroids and Mars and even a landing on the Moon by 2029 or 2030.
 As the afternoon wore on, the participants wrestled with whether to retain the goal of a direct flight to Mars.
 Mr. Greason said that he had dreamed of going to Mars his whole life, but that making a ''dash'' for Mars would be destructive of the dream, leading to its abandonment the way Americans abandoned the Moon. ''I want to go to Mars, but not this way,'' he said. ''I want to go the right way.''
 But Bohdan Bejmuk, a former Boeing manager and aerospace consultant who helped develop the space shuttle, said, ''By God, I think we should go to Mars.''
 Leroy Chiao, a former astronaut, also argued for keeping Mars as an option. ''Let the decision makers know what it would it cost,'' he said. 
 In the end, the committee agreed to treat Mars not as an option, but as the end goal of all options.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); SCIENCE POLICY (52%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (56%); OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (55%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (94%); EARTH'S MOON (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



346 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: For Independent Filmmakers, Final Cut Is Now Just Step One

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Quentin Tarantino never had to go through this.
 When ''The Age of Stupid,'' a climate change movie, ''opens'' across the United States in September, it will play on some 400 screens in a one-night event, with a video performance by Thom Yorke of Radiohead, all paid for by the filmmakers themselves and their backers. In Britain, meanwhile, the film has been showing via an Internet service that lets anyone pay to license a copy, set up a screening and keep the profit.
 The glory days of independent film, when hot young directors like Steven Soderbergh and Mr. Tarantino had studio executives tangled in fierce bidding wars at Sundance and other celebrity-studded festivals, are now barely a speck in the rearview mirror. And something new, something much odder, has taken their place.
 Here is how it used to work: aspiring filmmakers playing the cool auteur in hopes of attracting the eye of a Hollywood power broker. 
 Here is the new way: filmmakers doing it themselves -- paying for their own distribution, marketing films through social networking sites and Twitter blasts, putting their work up free on the Web to build a reputation, cozying up to concierges at luxury hotels in film festival cities to get them to whisper into the right ears. 
 The economic slowdown and tight credit have squeezed the entertainment industry along with everybody else, resulting in significantly fewer big-studio films in the pipeline and an even tougher road for smaller-budget independent projects. Independent distribution companies are much less likely to pull out the checkbook while many of the big studios have all but gotten out of the indie film business. 
 ''It's not like the audience for these movies has completely disappeared,'' said Cynthia Swartz, a partner in the publicity company 42 West, which has been supplementing its mainstream business by helping filmmakers find ways to connect with an audience. ''It's just a matter of finding them.''
 Sometimes, the odd approach actually works. 
 ''Anvil! The Story of Anvil,'' a documentary about a Canadian metal band, turned into the do-it-yourself equivalent of a smash hit when it stretched a three-screen opening in April into a four-month run, still under way, on more than 150 screens around the country.
 ''I paid for everything, I took a second mortgage on my house,'' said Sacha Gervasi, the film's director.
 Mr. Gervasi, whose studio writing credits include ''The Terminal,'' directed by Steven Spielberg, nearly three years ago, began filming ''Anvil!'' with his own money in hopes of attracting a conventional distributor. The movie played well at Sundance in 2008, but offers were low.
 So Mr. Gervasi put up more money -- his total cost was in ''the upper hundred thousands,'' he said -- to distribute the film through a company called Abramorama, while selling the DVD and television rights to VH1.
 The aging rockers of Anvil have shown up at theaters to play for audiences. Famous fans like Courtney Love were soon chattering online about the film. And an army of ''virtual street teamers'' -- Internet advocates who flood social networks with admiring comments, sometimes for a fee, sometimes not -- were recruited by a Web consultant, Sarah Lewitinn, who usually works the music scene. 
 The idea behind this sort of guerrilla release is to accumulate just enough at the box office to prime the pump for DVD sales and return the filmmaker's investment, maybe even with a little profit. ''Anvil!'' has earned roughly $1 million worldwide at the box office so far, its producer, Rebecca Yeldham, said.
 Finding even relatively small amounts of money to make and market a film is, of course, no small trick. ''The Age of Stupid'' raised a production budget of about $:450,000 (about $748,000) from 228 shareholders, and is soliciting a bit more to continue its release, Franny Armstrong, its director, said.
 ''Money has simply vanished,'' said Mark Urman, an independent-film veteran, speaking of the financial drought that has pushed producers and directors into shouldering risks that only a few years ago were carried by a more robust field of distributors.
 Many of those distributors have either disappeared or severely tightened their operations, including Warner Independent Pictures, Picturehouse, New Line Cinema, Miramax, the Weinstein Company, Paramount Classics and its successor, Paramount Vantage.
 Typically, the distributors have paid money upfront for rights to release films. That helped the producers recover what they had already spent on production, but it often left the distributor with most or all of the profit.
 Mr. Urman's own position as president for distribution at Senator Entertainment evaporated this year when financing fell through for a slate of films. So he started a new company, Paladin, to support filmmakers willing to finance their own releases.
 In September, Paladin is expected to help the filmmaker Steve Jacobs and his fellow producers release ''Disgrace,'' a drama with John Malkovich that is based on a novel by the Nobel laureate J. M. Coetzee. 
 The film won a critics prize at the Toronto International Film Festival last year, but no attractive distribution offers. One key to releasing it without a Miramax, said Mr. Urman, is to minimize expensive advertising in newspapers or on television and play directly to a friendly audience -- in this case through extensive promotional tie-ins with Mr. Coetzee's publishers.
 ''Everyone still dreams there's going to be a conventional sale to a major studio,'' said Kevin Iwashina, once an independent-film specialist with the Creative Artists Agency and now a partner at IP Advisors, a film sales and finance consulting company. But, he said, smart producers and directors are figuring out how to tap the value in projects on their own.
 Some big companies will still be on the hunt in Toronto this year, where the annual festival is scheduled to begin Sept. 10.
 ''We'll be there in full force,'' said Nancy Utley, a president of Fox Searchlight Pictures, which last year acquired rights to ''Slumdog Millionaire'' and ''The Wrestler,'' both screened in Toronto.
 ''It's a great opportunity for us,'' said Robert G. Friedman, a chairman of Summit Entertainment, which acquired ''The Hurt Locker,'' directed by Kathryn Bigelow. The film was offered in Toronto last year and has already been mentioned widely as an Oscar contender.
 But some filmmakers and producers pointed toward the festival have already started working for themselves, rather than waiting for the few remaining, and ever fussier, buyers to swoop in.
 In fact, the next-wave Tarantinos are in Canada already -- coddling not prospective buyers, but concierges, who just might steer people to promotional parties and screenings.
 ''These guys have figured it out,'' Barry Avrich, a member of the festival's governing board, said of the do-it-yourself crowd. ''They're into all the cool hotels, to get the concierges thinking about them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Ludlow in ''Anvil! The Story of Anvil.'' Its director, Sacha Gervasi, took out a second mortgage to pay for the documentary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENT J. CRAIG/VH1 AND ABRAMORAMA)
 ''The Age of Stupid'' will officially open in the United States with showings paid for by the filmmakers and their backers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPANNER FILMS AND PASSION PICTURES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SECOND MORTGAGES (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Anvil! The Story of Anvil (Movie); Age of Stupid, The (Movie); Anvil! The Story of Anvil (Movie); Age of Stupid, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



347 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: As Deal-Making Returns, Midsize Companies Are Seen as Prime Targets

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
THE United States is ripe for a boom in acquisitions of privately held companies.
 That, at least, is the view of Dennis J. Roberts, chairman of the McLean Group, an investment bank in McLean, Va., that specializes in the sale of businesses with annual revenue of $1 million to $500 million. These so-called middle-market firms, which number about 1.2 million, collectively have annual revenue of about $8.8 trillion and a market value of $4.4 trillion.
 Mr. Roberts predicts that the resurgence of deal-making will begin within the next six months to a year as the economy improves and the middle-market mergers-and-acquisitions cycle pulls out of its current contraction.
 This time, though, in his view, the recovery will get extra thrust from the convergence of four other trends: burnout in the ranks of baby-boomer business owners, rapid technology advances that are driving market consolidation, long-term growth in the appetite of foreigners for United States companies and a buildup of cash at the nation's 4,000 to 8,000 private equity groups. 
 ''There is tremendous, pent-up demand on both the buy and sell side,'' he said. ''These middle-market firms account for two-thirds of gross national product. And they aren't going anywhere.''
 Harold S. Bradley, chief investment officer for the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, a center for entrepreneurial research in Kansas City, Mo., says Mr. Roberts's thesis is essentially sound, though he serves up some caveats.
 ''Midmarket buyouts is where you want to be insofar as long-term payouts are concerned,'' he said, adding that many institutions have ''50 to 60 percent of their capital committed to illiquid assets like buyouts or venture capital.''
 On the other hand, he said, the easy money that pumped up returns in previous booms doesn't exist today. And, he said, America's stringent visa restrictions dissuade many foreigners from investing in American assets. ''We educate them at M.I.T. and then send them back to India,'' he said.
 Mark Danuser is betting that Mr. Roberts's prognostication is correct -- and says he believes he will benefit because his Denver mobile shredding venture is in a field that will prosper as long as people feel the need to destroy documents.
 Mr. Danuser, 56, is still reeling from the collapse of a deal in December to sell his firm, the Better Shredder, to a Canadian corporation for $2 million. ''We were courted,'' he said. ''But we were jilted at the altar.'' 
 He is eager for a new romance, however. He started the Better Shredder in 1996 on a shoestring, going into debt and delivering pizza at night to make ends meet. Revenue grew slowly at first, but then shot up by 15 to 30 percent year after year, to more than $1 million today. He has eight employees.
 Selling the company before he turned 60 was always part of his plan, he said, because he wanted to be young enough to jump into something else. If the M.& A. boom that Mr. Roberts is talking about materializes, Mr. Danuser figures he should get a good price.
 For one thing, his company is weathering the recession well, and he says he believes the demand for shredders will increase as printers become cheaper and people grow more concerned about identity theft and privacy protection. For another, he figures that a big company that wants to increase its market share or an investment group that spots an opportunity might decide that the time has come to make an offer.
 Mr. Roberts, whose McLean Group has offices in 30 cities and who wrote a book, ''Mergers & Acquisitions'' (Wiley, 2009) on the art of middle-market deal-making, said the suddenness of the turnaround would probably take the country by surprise. The danger is that business owners will sell their ventures prematurely.
 To avoid that, he recommends that they hire a specialist to evaluate their company's pluses and minuses, even if they have no intention of selling it. Acting on the evaluation could sharply increase their business's value and make them more money if they do decide to sell, he says.
 Even companies with annual revenue of $100 million or more often don't have their paperwork in order. A classic blunder -- one that has happened at one-third of the transactions he has been involved in -- is the owners' failure to document verbal promises they have made to subordinates. A professional outsider, he says, will ''explore your relationships with key employees and show you how you can keep them bound to the company after the sale.''
 Parnell Black, co-founder and chief executive of the National Association of Certified Valuation Analysts, which has a membership of 7,000 certified consultants who specialize in evaluating privately held companies, also has some suggestions.
 Mr. Black, who has an informal partnership with Mr. Roberts's firm, says that despite the recession, many baby boomers are eager to cash out of their businesses and pursue their retirement dreams. Even those who expect to stay in charge for the long haul, he says, should act to make their companies more efficient and to guarantee they will get top dollar when the time comes. ''You need to have a track record,'' he says.
 The golden rule is to set up a rigorous system to contain costs, a step that can reap immediate rewards. He tells the story of a small business that he advises whose Federal Express bill was running to $4,000 a month until management enforced restrictions on employees using the overnight service. The monthly cost fell to $500.
 Three other steps that he recommends are studying every sentence of proposed contracts, locking in vendors and resellers for long-term relationships and training managers to assume other responsibilities to protect the company against the loss of crucial employees.
 Mr. Roberts, the investment banker, says baby boomer burnout will be a driving force in the M.& A. boom that he sees on the horizon. Of the 1.2 million middle-market businesses, more than 800,000, with a total market value of $3 trillion, are owned by people born in the years 1946 through 1964, he calculates. He estimates they will sell or leave to heirs 560,000 companies with a value of $2.5 trillion, and shut down or otherwise dispose of the others.
 The process has already begun, as some of the owners retire, become sick or disabled or find a sudden need for cash. ''Those entrepreneurial fires can die more quickly than you'd think,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''One day you're suddenly tired.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dennis Roberts's company specializes in the sale of businesses with revenue up to $500 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACQUISITIONS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MERGERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: PAT ROBERTS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



348 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: A Flash of Pique After a Long Week in a Continent Full of Troubles

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria 

 BODY:
It was hot. She was tired. And it had been a long day in Africa. 
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was onstage in Kinshasa, Congo's shabby capital, in an auditorium packed with Congolese students. 
 And then came the question, from a young man in a suit. 
 ''Mrs. Clinton, we've all heard about the Chinese contracts in this country,'' he said. ''The interference is from the World Bank against this contract. What does Mr. Clinton think through the mouth of Mrs. Clinton?'' 
 Mrs. Clinton's answer on Monday has quickly become the No. 1 sound bite from her trip. Her whole seven-nation Africa tour, which has had quite serious intentions, like combating Congo's appalling rape epidemic and raising her personal profile within President Obama's administration, may end up being reduced to this:
 ''Wait, you want me to tell you what my husband thinks? My husband is not the secretary of state, I am. So you ask my opinion, I will tell you my opinion. I am not going to be channeling my husband.''
 Almost immediately, her showdown with the student became a media phenomenon, with a level of attention on an American in Kinshasa perhaps not seen since the so-called Rumble in the Jungle between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman in 1974. 
 Mrs. Clinton's aides have been notably frustrated that this brief flash of anger, or undiplo-speak, has come to overshadow a trip that took weeks of planning and was intended to strengthen America's ties to some of its most strategic allies on the continent.
 But her evident irritation at the question quickly fueled speculation that Mrs. Clinton felt eclipsed by former President Bill Clinton's trip to North Korea last week, in which he rapidly secured the release of two American journalists who had been sentenced to years of hard labor. 
 After the forum, her aides told the traveling press corps that there might have been a mistranslation, and that the student actually wanted to know the opinion of her boss, not her husband. But that interpretation did not dispel the controversy either, since it gave new life to the nagging question of whether Mrs. Clinton felt marginalized in the Obama administration. 
 Her talk with the students had started out friendly enough, with questions about human rights and the environment. But it got a little edgy when several students pushed her on why Congo, whose first prime minister was ousted with the help of the C.I.A., should now trust the United States. She then became a little prickly.
 Later, her aides released the transcript of the question, as it had been translated to English from French, and further inspection of the audio recording of the event indicated that the translation was fine; the student had indeed said ''Mr. Clinton.''
 After the event, the student apologized to Mrs. Clinton, saying he had indeed meant to ask what Mr. Obama thought. 
 Either way, the hubbub seemed to drain Mrs. Clinton. Until then, she had seemed impervious to the jet lag that was stalking her entourage from the moment they plopped down in Kenya. But on Tuesday, especially after meeting Congolese rape victims and touring a squalid refugee camp where thousands of people lived cheek by sunken cheek, Mrs. Clinton seemed enervated. Perhaps it was the sight of so many civilians suffering from a conflict the world has failed to stop. She said a few words on the plane ride back from Congo, but her language was not as emotional as it had been, or as urgent. 
 No matter the issues she was talking about -- encouraging good governing, ending Africa's wars, lifting women up from their lowly position in a place like Congo. The interest in this trip, it seemed, was not about the problems facing Africa. It was about her. 
 As one journalist covering her trip put it: ''She is a celebrity. We have a celebrity secretary of state. When you have a celebrity, you get celebrity coverage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); SENTENCING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MUHAMMAD ALI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



349 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Obama Gives Medal of Freedom to 16 Luminaries

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama took a break from the vitriol of the health care debate on Wednesday to bestow the Presidential Medal of Freedom on 16 luminaries in theater, sports, science, the humanities and politics, including Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the tennis great Billie Jean King, the actor Sidney Poitier and the physicist Stephen Hawking.
 ''This is a chance for me -- and for the United States of America -- to say thank you to some of the finest citizens of this country and of all countries,'' Mr. Obama said at the ceremony in the East Room of the White House, praising the recipients for reminding Americans that excellence is still possible ''in a moment when cynicism and doubt too often prevail.'' 
 It was Mr. Obama's first chance to award the medal, the highest civilian honor a president can bestow, and there were some emotional moments. When the president hugged Mr. Poitier, it was a poignant reminder of how the actor, who broke racial barriers, had paved the way for Mr. Obama's own journey to the White House. Ms. King, who was honored for her work advocating for the rights of women and gays, touched her medal to her lips when Mr. Obama draped it around her neck.
 And Mr. Kennedy's daughter, Kara, seemed to blink back tears as she accepted the award on behalf of her father, who is battling brain cancer. Mr. Obama introduced the honorees in alphabetical order, but saved Senator Kennedy for last, praising him as someone who has fought for soldiers, working families and students for nearly half a century, and whose life ''has made a difference for us all.''
 Two of the awards -- to Jack Kemp, the one-time Republican vice-presidential candidate, and Harvey Milk, the slain gay rights activist whose life story was chronicled in a film starring Sean Penn -- were delivered posthumously. Mr. Kemp's widow, Joanne Kemp, accepted his award; Mr. Milk's award was accepted by his nephew, Stuart Milk.
 The ceremony was not without controversy. The recipients included Mary Robinson, the former president of Ireland and human rights advocate, whose award has drawn the ire of Jewish groups and lawmakers who accuse her of exhibiting bias against Israel. The White House said Mr. Obama had no second thoughts about the award; during the ceremony, the president praised Mrs. Robinson for her work as ''an advocate for the hungry and the hunted, the forgotten and the ignored.''
 The honorees spanned cultures and disciplines. They included Chita Rivera, who became famous when she played the role of Anita in ''West Side Story''; Dr. Pedro Jose Greer Jr., who founded a medical clinic to treat Miami's poor; Mohammad Yunus, a Bangladeshi economist who pioneered microfinance; the Rev. Joseph E. Lowery, the civil rights advocate and co-founder of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference; and Joseph Medicine Crow, a World War II veteran and Native American historian and educator who wore a traditional feathered headdress at the ceremony. 
 Nancy Goodman Brinker, who was chief of protocol for Mr. Obama's predecessor, President George W. Bush, was honored for her work as founder of the Susan G. Komen Foundation, which raises money for breast cancer research. Dr. Janet Davison Rowley, who took up serious medical research at age 40, after raising four children, and went on to discover that genetic abnormalities can cause cancer, also received the medal.
 Sandra Day O'Connor, the first woman to serve on the Supreme Court, was also among the honorees. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama presented the Medal of Freedom on Wednesday to, from left, the historian Joseph Medicine Crow, the tennis great Billie Jean King, the physicist Stephen Hawking, the actor Sidney Poitier and former Justice Sandra Day O'Connor.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); FAMILY (73%); WOMEN (73%); RELIGION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); LGBT RIGHTS (71%); RACE & RACISM (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); MICROFINANCE (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); BRAIN CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TED KENNEDY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (79%); IRELAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



350 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Hillary Fights a Tide of Trivialization

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner writes Domestic Disturbances, a column at nytimes.com. Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 This was supposed to be the trip that would show exactly how Hillary Rodham Clinton would make good on her pledge, at her confirmation hearing for secretary of state, to make women's issues ''central'' to U.S. foreign policy, not ''adjunct or auxiliary or in any way lesser.'' 
 There could have been no more dramatic setting: Overruling the security fears of her aides, she traveled to eastern Congo, where hundreds of thousands of women have been raped over the past decade. She visited a refugee camp and met with one woman who was gang-raped while eight months pregnant; she heard of another who'd been sexually assaulted with a rifle. She was told of babies cut from their mothers' bodies with razors. She spoke of ''evil in its basest form.'' She promised $17 million to fight sexual violence. 
 And back home, all anyone could talk about was Bill.
 Had he upstaged her with his trip to North Korea? Had he dogged her, in absentia, all the way to Kinshasa, where a university student, wondering about ''Mr. Clinton's'' views, set her off, and set the world cluck-clucking, once again, about her marriage, her temperament, even her hair?
 As she circles the globe in coming years, making the case for women's empowerment, starting with their basic right to be taken seriously, Clinton really has her work cut out for her. And it isn't just because the situation of women around the world is so dire, and the ocean of problems confronting them -- maternal mortality, sex trafficking, domestic abuse, malnourishment, lack of education, lack of adequate medical care, just for starters -- is so wide and so deep. And it isn't just that her historic mandate -- to equally empower the other half of the world's population, to chip away at the forces ''devaluing women,'' in the words of Melanne Verveer, the State Department's new ambassador at large for global women's issues -- is so huge and vague and seemingly overwhelming. It's also because the tide of trivialization that washes over all things ''Hillary'' is just so powerful. That tide threatens to drown out anything of substance Clinton might attempt for a population whose problems have long been obscured in the androcentric world of diplomacy. And that's a huge pity.
 This could be a moment for America to redeem itself as far as the world's women are concerned. Our recent track record, after all, is pretty dim. The Bush administration sent anti-feminists to Iraq to train that country's women in participatory democracy. We pulled our financing from the United Nations Population Fund and imposed a global gag rule barring women's health organizations that merely talked about abortion from receiving U.S. funds. We never ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, a pretty base-level human rights treaty, because of worries by black helicopter types that American sovereignty would be compromised. Our lack of paid maternity leave made us something of a world joke.
 But now things just might change, and not just within the State Department. In the Senate, Barbara Boxer is leading a subcommittee charged with global women's issues; a bill to combat child marriage is moving through Congress. 
 And yet, a peculiarly gendered form of trivializing scorn still tags our secretary of state. Just two weeks ago, The Washington Post had to remove from its Web site an ostensibly humorous video sketch by two of its prominent political journalists that juxtaposed a picture of Clinton's face with a bottle of derogatorily named beer. This sort of thing bodes badly for the country's ability to treat her -- and the issues she most passionately champions -- with appropriate respect.
 ''We have our own work to do at home,'' Verveer told me. ''We trivialize the importance too often of these issues: the 'women's issue' -- you put it in quotes, that little category over there, the box you check. What we have to do is realize these are the issues; if we want societies to prosper and if we want our own security, we have to raise the status of women.''
 Women's issues are being framed by this administration in terms of realpolitik: U.S. security depends on women's empowerment. Global economic growth depends on women's participation.
 Women's empowerment won't be delivered at the end of a gun or through economic sanctions or even overt criticism, if it cuts into accepted cultural practices. This is messy stuff; some of our most sensitive allies have horrific records on women's rights. Programs that show success tend to be slow-moving and incremental. Can all this complexity attract -- much less sustain -- the attention of the public? 
 Maybe -- if we stop viewing everything Clinton does as entertainment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); CHILDREN (74%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); REFUGEES (71%); SEX TRAFFICKING (69%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



351 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: State Prison In Michigan Is Considered For Detainees

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
Federal officials are scheduled to tour a state prison in rural Michigan on Thursday as a potential site for housing detainees from the prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a spokeswoman for Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm said Wednesday. 
 The prison under consideration is a maximum-security facility in Standish, northwest of Detroit, said Elizabeth Boyd, the spokeswoman for Ms. Granholm. It is among eight facilities the state is preparing to close because of reduced revenues. 
 An administration official said that the visit was intended only to gather information about the facility and that no decisions had been made.
 The national debate over where to relocate the detaineeshas been heated since the Obama administration announced a deadline to close the detention center in Guantanamo by January. The logistics of the move has been among the more contentious problems, and the notion of relocating detainees in the United States has provoked alarm in some communities and a bipartisan Congressional protest. 
 Although the detainees at the Guantanamo prison, which was opened by the Bush administration as part of its counterterrorism policy, are not presumed to be security threats, no state has thus far been friendly to the idea of housing them. And the House and Senate voted in May to bar the resettlement of detainees in this country and stripped an emergency war-spending bill of $50 million for closing Guantanamo until after the administration submitted a detailed plan.
 Michigan, however, long-suffering economically, may have more reason than other states to welcome the money that would come with housing detainees. 
 Michigan has cut 10,000 employees since 2000, leaving it with about as many state workers as it had in the early 1970s. Annual general fund revenues, when adjusted for inflation, have shrunk in all but one of the last nine years. Revenue is expected to be $6.9 billion next year, a level last seen in 1991 (and when inflation adjusted, similar to the 1960s). 
 Ms. Boyd said the governor would not attend the tour, which is to be led by state corrections officials and attended by officials of the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TERRORISM (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (52%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (88%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



352 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Union Said to Back A Main Rival Of Bloomberg

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
In a snub to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, New York City's largest municipal union voted to endorse Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. for mayor on Wednesday night, giving the Democratic candidate crucial labor support, said two people briefed on the matter.
 The union, District Council 37, represents 120,000 city government workers, mostly in nonuniformed jobs, like social workers, secretaries, engineers and accountants. 
 In 2005, the union broke with its tradition of endorsing Democrats and backed Mr. Bloomberg, then a Republican, privately arguing that the mayor was likely to trounce a weak field of Democratic candidates.
 Many expected the district council to do the same this time, especially since Mr. Bloomberg appears to be steamrolling toward re-election and granted DC 37's workers back-to-back 4 percent raises last fall, despite the economic crisis.
 But disputes between DC 37 and the Bloomberg administration, which have simmered throughout the second term, appeared to boil over during the endorsement process, giving Mr. Thompson an opening, according to those who have spoken to the union's leaders. 
 And Mr. Bloomberg's sobering address to the union's executive committee on Wednesday night, in which he warned members, ''You're going to have to learn to do more with less'' because of the economic downturn, appeared to hurt, not help, his chances.
 A representative of the district council did not respond to requests for comment Wednesday night. The union is expected to announce its endorsement on Thursday.
 The union has assailed the Bloomberg administration for relying on outside contractors, arguing that City Hall has shifted work away from well-paid union workers.
 It has protested his plan to create a new, less generous pension plan for new workers, saying it amounts to a pay cut. 
 And it has criticized elements of mayoral control of schools, which has tightened the city's control over thousands of the union's members. 
 The mayor has responded that outside contractors at times save the city money; that his control of the school system has benefited parents and students; and that pension reform is necessary to alleviate the crushing cost of retirement benefits, which account for 10 percent of the city's annual budget.
 In a statement, Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg's campaign, said: ''DC 37 opposes pension reform, mayoral control of schools, and wants the city to hire more employees, even in a time of fiscal crisis. This is their job, so we understand their position. But these are clearly not things that the mayor could agree to, and so it's not surprising that they would endorse Mr. Thompson.'' 
 ''The real question,'' he added, ''is what promises Mr. Thompson made them and how much his promises will cost taxpayers.'' 
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Thompson, who is considered the leading Democratic contender for the party's nomination next month, declined to comment on Mr. Wolfson's remarks. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has already won endorsements from 20 public and private-industry labor groups. Mr. Thompson's campaign has endorsements from 11.
 Given Mr. Bloomberg's success in courting labor, the district council's move could provide cover for other municipal employees' unions to back Mr. Thompson. Several large New York unions, like the teachers, firefighters and police, have yet to endorse a mayoral candidate and have warm relationships with Mr. Thompson. 
 But their leaders are torn between loyalties to a labor-friendly Democratic challenger (Mr. Thompson) and a labor-friendly independent mayor (Mr. Bloomberg). Despite complaints about job cuts and the threat of future pension reductions, labor leaders have found much to like in Mr. Bloomberg, who has given their workers generous pay increases. 
 Allies of Mr. Thompson said the backing from DC 37 would immediately elevate his campaign, which has struggled to attract media attention and campaign contributions as Mr. Bloomberg has hit the city's airwaves and mailboxes with campaign ads, political endorsements and policy announcements. 
 ''It's an enormous endorsement,'' said Stuart Appelbaum, the president of the city's retail workers' union, which has endorsed Mr. Thompson. ''There is a growing feeling that Bill Thompson can win this election.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Bloomberg in 2005 with Lillian Roberts, executive director of District Council 37. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



353 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Wait in Line For Health Care That's Free

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: INGLEWOOD, Calif. 

 BODY:
They came for new teeth mostly, but also for blood pressure checks, mammograms, immunizations and acupuncture for pain. Neighboring South Los Angeles is a place where health care is scarce, and so when it was offered nearby, word got around.
 For the second day in a row, thousands of people lined up on Wednesday -- starting after midnight and snaking into the early hours -- for free dental, medical and vision services, courtesy of a nonprofit group that more typically provides mobile health care for the rural poor.
 Like a giant MASH unit, the floor of the Forum, the arena where Madonna once played four sold-out shows, housed aisle upon aisle of dental chairs, where drilling, cleaning and extracting took place in the open. A few cushions were duct-taped to a folding table in a coat closet, an examining room where Dr. Eugene Taw, a volunteer, saw patients. 
 When Remote Area Medical, the Tennessee-based organization running the event, decided to try its hand at large urban medical services, its principals thought Los Angeles would be a good place to start. But they were far from prepared for the outpouring of need. Set up for eight days of care, the group was already overwhelmed on the first day after allowing 1,500 people through the door, nearly 500 of whom had still not been served by day's end and had to return in the wee hours Wednesday morning.
 The enormous response to the free care was a stark corollary to the hundreds of Americans who have filled town-hall-style meetings throughout the country, angrily expressing their fear of the Obama administration's proposed changes to the nation's health care system. The bleachers of patients also reflected the state's high unemployment, recent reduction in its Medicaid services for the poor and high deductibles and co-payments that have come to define many employer-sponsored insurance programs.
 Many of those here said they lacked insurance, but many others said they had coverage but not enough to meet all their needs -- or that they could afford. Some said they were well aware of the larger national health care debate, and were eager for changes. 
 ''I am on point with the news,'' said Elizabeth Harraway, 50, who is unemployed and came for dental care. ''I think the president's ideas are awesome, and I believe opening up health care is going to work.''
 Stan Brock, Remote Area Medical's founder and among the many khaki-wearing volunteers in the arena, said his organization's intent was not to become part of the health care debate, but to do what it had done for nearly 25 years: offer charity to people in need. Still, the group attracted attention last month when President Obama visited Bristol, Va., just days after it held a health care event in nearby Wise, Va.
 ''My position on the Obama plan is that I am delighted to see so much focus on the health care issue,'' Mr. Brock said. ''There is incredible focus on what we do, but that is not my doing.''
 In the past, Remote Area Medical has also provided services in mid-sized American cities, including New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, but had never tried an operation in such a large metropolitan area. Mr. Brock said the considerable logistics were made possible with the help of Don Manelli, a film producer, but he said he was disappointed in the dearth of volunteers among local providers -- specifically dentists and optometrists -- which made it hard to provide services for all comers.
 Ana Maria Garcia, who works for Orange County, has health insurance that covers her husband and 3 1/2-year-old daughter, but her dental deductibles are too high for them all to get care, she said. 
 Ms. Garcia's husband, Jorge, who was laid off from his custodial job last October, arrived from their home -- a 90-minute drive away -- at 4 p.m. on Tuesday to get the family's spot in line. 
 But the Garcias' number never came up, so they slept in their car for a few hours and lined up again early Wednesday morning, awaiting a chance to get root canals and cleanings that Ms. Garcia figured were worth thousands of dollars. They made a friend in the bleachers outside, who gave the family some coffee and hot biscuits for breakfast.
 ''Regardless if you are employed or not,'' Ms. Garcia said, ''everything in California is expensive, and so I can empathize with everyone here. Looking at this crowd, I think this is what people fear health care is going to be with reform. But to me it also shows the need.''
 Last month, the state dropped its dental and vision coverage for MediCal enrollees, and has since capped enrollment in the state's health insurance program for children of the working poor. Thousands of people across the state lost their coverage in the middle of complex, multimonth procedures and have found themselves at a loss.
 Sammie Edwards, a retired welder, was in the middle of getting dentures made when his care ran out, he said. A friend at a food bank clued him into the free clinic. ''A lot of older people are caught in the midst of this,'' Mr. Edwards said.
 Begun in 1985 as a mobile health clinic serving undeveloped countries and later rural America, Remote Area Medical provides various medical services through units to people who are largely unable to gain access to health care. Officials from the organization said they believed that this week's event in Los Angeles constituted the largest free health care event in the country, with the arena and all supplies and services provided free to the group. Other expenses were covered by the group's fund-raising.
 On Tuesday, volunteers provided 1,448 services to about 600 patients, including 95 tooth extractions, 470 fillings, 140 pairs of eyeglasses, 96 Pap smears and 93 tuberculosis tests, the organizers said. Hundreds of volunteer doctors, dentists, optometrists, nurses and others are expected to serve 8,000 patients by the end of the eight days. 
 For those willing to endure the long waits, the arena was like a magical medical kingdom, where everything was possible once a person got through the door. Mike Bettis, who runs security for a nightclub in Hollywood, and his fiancee, Lourie Alexander, who cleans homes, said they usually went on Craigslist, exchanging a home cleaning for a dermatology appointment. 
 By Wednesday, the couple had gotten between them dentures (him); a breast exam, Pap smear and general physical (her); and acupuncture (both).
 ''What I liked about it was that everyone was so sweet,'' Ms. Alexander said. ''You know when you haven't seen a doctor in so many years you have a lot of questions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OVERWHELMING RESPONSE Top left, Dr. Shirley Chen reassuring Emily Love before a dental procedure. Top right, Nancy Romstedt awaiting an X-ray. Above, people waiting overnight were asked who held tickets No. 1 through 100. Demand far outpaced capacity in the clinic's first two days.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAID (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); DENTISTRY (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009



354 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: A Small Store's Closing: Symptom of Larger Ills

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

DATELINE: AMENIA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Happy Endings Antiques is wedged alongside a gas station and a shuttered luncheonette in this sleepy town about 80 miles north of Manhattan in Dutchess County, on the way to the Berkshires. Since the three-room store opened in February, no more than a handful of browsers have stopped by each day. Few have bought anything from the mixture of painted folk chairs and china cabinets, mid-20th-century side tables in Lucite or black lacquer, beaded purses, wind-up toys and kinetic sculptures made of machine gears or bedsprings.
 The store, now closed, is likely to be crowded for the first time on Saturday evening. Tim Chapulis, an auctioneer from Bristol, Conn., will steer bidders through wares he has divided into about 500 lots, the highest one estimated at around $3,500. 
 Pamela Haft, the owner of Happy Endings, who started in the antiques business in 2002, said she had opened it ''without really considering how the economic downturn was affecting the antiques market.'' Auctioning the contents of the gray-shingled storefront, which cost $500 a month to rent, ''is a tremendous wrench,'' she said. ''But I have no viable alternatives. I have a cash-flow issue.'' Mr. Chapulis has sent out a news release with a wry spin on the short-lived business: ''It looks like there won't be a happy ending for Happy Endings.''
 Antiques market analysts say that her store's fizzling is indicative of a widespread market shakeout. Generalist dealers selling objects priced below $1,000 are proving most vulnerable in the current recession. Specialists and those handling costlier material ''are doing much better than the middle and low market,'' said Lincoln R. Sander, the executive director of the Antiques Dealers' Association of America, which has about 120 members mainly focused on high-end Americana. ''The serious connoisseur-collectors,'' he added, ''continue to buy.''
 No one tallies how many mid-priced antiques dealers are still in business, but one gloomy indicator is the membership count at the broad-based Antiques & Collectibles National Association: about 3,000, down from 3,800 in 2005. ''Things are starting to come back up now,'' said Angie Becker, the association's president. ''We are seeing new shops and new malls opening, and there've been shows with record attendance.''
 One growing group of customers, she added, are ''people who want to look at and touch what they're buying now, who've been burned by what they ended up with on the Internet.'' Ms. Becker speculated that Happy Endings might have endured if Ms. Haft could have financed it for another year or so.
 At 5 p.m. on Saturday Ms. Haft will host an hourlong preauction preview, and then bidders can take home items bearing original price tags: $500 for a parchment Victorian tambourine painted with a scene of Mont Saint-Michel, $385 for a Tibetan bench with faded gilding, $95 for a wooden abacus with rabbits carved along its frame. The sale, Ms. Haft said, standing in the shop one day last week, ''is going to be sheer torture for me.'' A few moments later she distracted herself by winding up a toy metal dog ($150) labeled Candy Loving Canine, which pops plastic balls into its mouth. ''He'll do that all day long,'' she said. ''He never misses.''
 TROVE OF RUSSIAN POSTERS
 Susan Pack keeps 280 posters in storage, and she hopes they will always stay together. For sale now as a group through a Midtown Manhattan poster gallery, they were printed in the Soviet Union between 1923 and 1934.
 Designed by artists including Alexander Rodchenko and the brothers Georgii and Vladimir Stenberg, the posters advertised American films starring Buster Keaton or Gloria Swanson as well as Russian propaganda glorifying peasants and athletes and demonizing capitalists. Although the movies had ponderous titles like ''Hero of the Blast Furnace'' and ''Wind From the Tundra,'' the collaged graphics are vibrant. 
 Actors' faces are shown sliced in half, veiled in lace or eerily tinted green or yellow. Lettering slashes across photos of trains, tractors or gun barrels. ''Buildings float by, cameras have legs, heads have no bodies, and hats have no heads,'' Ms. Pack wrote via e-mail. She is an avid collector in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., and author of ''Film Posters of the Russian Avant-Garde'' (Taschen, 1995). 
 She bought most of the pieces in the 1990s. ''Russians were selling anything they could sell,'' she said. ''The hunt was really thrilling for me, getting phone calls late at night: 'Can you get over here and see this one?' '' She paid ''from a couple thousand to close to a hundred thousand'' dollars per poster, she added, and almost never displays them: ''I wouldn't take the chance that any could fade.''
 The Ross Art Group, a poster gallery at 532 Madison Avenue, at 54th Street, is bringing customers by appointment to see the collection at storage rooms in New Jersey. ''Ideally a private collector will buy it with the idea of presenting it to an institution or sending it on traveling display,'' said Mickey Ross, an owner of the gallery. Ms. Pack could not afford to donate them herself, she said. A buyer will no doubt be tempted to disperse them, she added: ''I can't make someone sign a contract'' promising to preserve the array.
 BOB GUCCIONE'S ANGELS
 Until last month sculptures of angels and satyrs were cemented in their longstanding spots on the interior walls of the town house that Bob Guccione, former publisher of Penthouse, owned on East 67th Street in Manhattan, although he lost the house to creditors a few years ago. Last year the hedge-fund mogul Philip Falcone paid about $49 million for the building and has largely gutted it. On Monday a hundred pieces of Mr. Guccione's architectural salvage will be part of a auction at Braswell Galleries in Norwalk, Conn.
 The town house parts have mysterious origins. ''Most of the stuff is Italian, but some you just have to call Continental,'' said Gary Braswell, an owner of the auction house. His crew spent two weeks dismantling the accoutrements of the former Guccione lair, taking down rusted iron chandeliers and sconces with leafy arms near an indoor pool and dismantling a four-story spiral staircase with scrollwork iron railings. 
 The Braswell team also chiseled out wood paneling, stone and ceramic fireplaces and fiberglass plaques. Many of the fragments have human figure motifs: cupids, demons, trolls and goddesses, dressed demurely in togas, loincloths or leaves.
 Estimates for the pieces range from a few hundred dollars to about $30,000, a great deal less than Mr. Braswell would have suggested a year ago. ''Architectural stuff used to sell like crazy, especially to developers who wanted to make their spec house stand out,'' he said. The catalog is online at braswellgalleries.com.
 Auction proceeds will benefit Green Demolitions, a charitable enterprise that supports programs for people recovering from addictions. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: These are among the 280 Soviet posters, collected by Susan Pack, that are being offered for sale by the Ross Art Group.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM ROSS ART GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); RETAILERS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); SCULPTURE (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



355 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'NEW YORK PHOTOGRAPHS'; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Eye on Time and the City: A Chronicle of New York's Darks and Lights, Captured by Savvy Street Photographers

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
Last winter, when the art economy was looking especially dark, a group of Manhattan photography dealers got together and decided to put on a spirit-lifting show: ''New York Photographs,'' a summertime tribute to the greatest city on earth. Thirteen galleries agreed to mount exhibitions -- some dedicated to individual artists, some to subjects like sex or music -- of which six are currently up. Together they offer a tantalizing series of glimpses, a dreamy tour of the town from the Statue of Liberty to the streets of Spanish Harlem and from the hurly-burly of Times Square to the furtive sexual encounters of the old West Side piers. They are a reminder, for anyone who needs it, of the endless churn of dark and light, innocence and experience that surrounds all of us in the city at every moment.
 A good place to start is with ''Glitz & Grime: Photographs of Times Square'' at Yancey Richardson. Twenty-four pictures, dating from 1945 to 2009, chronicle the highs and lows of a place that embodies the spirit of American commercial culture at its most seamy and manically exuberant. 
In black-and-white pictures from the 1940s and '50s by Louis Stettner and Rudy Burckhardt shadowy, walking men in hats and overcoats seem like lost souls in a crepuscular purgatory. That mood is revived in a photograph from as recently as 1997 -- well into Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's campaign to clean up the Times Square area -- by Philip-Lorca diCorcia in which pedestrians seem like extras in a neo-noir or zombie movie. 
 A big color picture by Andrew Moore registers the nearly psychedelic impact of the signage that's there now, and Lynn Saville's partly blurred image of automobile traffic has a lush, cinematic beauty. But if there is joy to be found in Times Square, you wouldn't know it from this show.
 Considering the once tawdry reputation of this crossroads of the world, and the aggressive eroticism of its contemporary advertising, it is odd that there is hardly any sex in the Richardson show. For that you have to go to ''Sexy and the City'' at Yossi Milo, in which the main attraction is a single-wall, salon-style hanging of 29 mostly black-and-white pictures. 
 As at Richardson the feeling here is more noirish than celebratory, and there is little romance in this sex. The show is leavened by Charles H. Traub's funny picture of an elderly woman at the Metropolitan Museum of Art reading a label at the feet of a giant, marmoreal nude man. But Merry Alpern's grainy, voyeuristic view of a woman in her underwear from a series called ''Dirty Windows'' and Alvin Baltrop's distant shots of anonymous men having sex on the West Side piers in the late '70s and early '80s are more typical. 
 The photographers at Yossi Milo are more like underground journalists or sociologists than interested parties. Ryan Weideman's erotically costumed people in the back of his taxi cab, Diane Arbus's awkward young couple on a park bench, Nan Goldin's drag queen out on the street in a huge, rococo wig with nipples exposed: all these images seem possessed of a world-weary remoteness. Hanging on a wall opposite the 29-picture display, Mitch Epstein's big color picture of a pretty young woman in a taxi with her head back in an apparent state of exhausted ennui seems to sum it up.
 If the jadedness of the Richardson and Milo shows brings you down, there's a good antidote in a selection of photographs, many never seen in public before, by the great Helen Levitt at Laurence Miller. ''First Proofs'' presents almost 30 trial prints, ranging from matchbook to playing-card size, that Levitt made between 1939 and 1942. It is a fascinating, heartening exhibition.
 In Levitt's images of children at play in Spanish Harlem and the Lower East Side there is not a trace of cynicism. Nor is there anything mean-spirited in her pictures of comically rotund ladies talking on a doorstep or a group of four men who seem clownish archetypes of masculinity, watched over from an apartment window by a little girl with a thoughtful expression. Levitt, who died this year at 95, had a Whitmanesque generosity. Her pictures are loaded with unqualified love, which is something you don't see a lot of in modern photography. 
 Thanks to artists like Cindy Sherman and Richard Prince, a more prevalent attitude these days is wised-up skepticism: doubt about the truth-telling capabilities of photography itself and suspicion of its engagement with the machinery of mass culture. Three large-scale pictures by Bill Jacobson at Julie Saul Gallery participate in that postmodern trend with depictions of crowded New York streets that are so out of focus it's almost impossible to make out their scenes. They could be viewed as works of Neo-Pictorialist poetry, but mainly they call attention to the technology and conventions of photography.
 Most people still want to see through photographs to the people, place and things they represent, and that is the appeal at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery of ''Live From New York ...,'' which rounds up pictures of famous musicians performing or hanging out in the city. Here it's all about the subject: Billie Holiday, Frank Sinatra, Sonny and Cher in hippie-cowboy outfits, Marilyn Monroe singing ''Happy Birthday'' to President John F. Kennedy, Bob Dylan and George Harrison in a duet onstage, the Ramones outside CBGB. Except for Arnold Newman's starkly formal portrait of Igor Stravinsky, in which the black, uplifted piano top occupies most of the picture, few of the photographs are interesting for formal or stylistic reasons. 
 One has achieved iconic status: Bob Gruen's 1974 portrait of John Lennon in a sleeveless New York T-shirt, against a backdrop of New York buildings. Lennon once caused a stir by declaring that the Beatles had become more popular than Jesus; for people of a certain age, anyway, Mr. Gruen's image, resonating with Lennon's fate on an Upper West Side street six years later, has an uncanny, Christlike mien. 
 But no photographic subject symbolizes New York like the Statue of Liberty, which is viewed from near, far, above and below in a small exhibition at Hasted Hunt. In one picture by Lou Stoumen from 1939, a man and a woman gaze worshipfully up at the towering torch bearer. In another, made in 1940 by the same photographer, we look down from above her crown and notice someone sticking an arm out the window, the little human hand comically rhyming with the giantess's fingers curled around her tablet. 
 Bruce Davidson's 1959 photograph of the faraway lady of the harbor, just visible through a forest of rooftop television aerials, is a rueful meditation on humanist values that modernity makes more and more difficult to sustain. Some may view the statue as a colossal piece of kitsch, but who wants to imagine New York without it? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New York Photographs: Top, 42nd Street in 1997, by Philip-Lorca diCorcia, from ''Glitz & Grime'' at Yancey Richardson
above, Bob Gruen's portrait of Sonny and Cher in 1973, from ''Live From New York . . . ,'' at Bonni Benrubi
right, male group, around 1940, by Helen Levitt, from ''First Proofs,'' at Laurence Miller
left, woman in a Midtown taxi, 1995, by Mitch Epstein, from ''Sexy and the City,'' at Yossi Milo.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID ZWIRNER GALLERY
BONNI BENRUBI GALLERY
ESTATE OF HELEN LEVITT/LAURENCE MILLER GALLERY
SIKKEMA JENKINS & CO./ YOSSI MILO GALLERY)(C25)
 West Side pier photograph (1970s or '80s) by Alvin Baltrop, at Yossi Milo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALVIN BALTROP TRUST/ YOSSI MILO GALLERY)(C27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (75%); HORROR FILMS (63%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



356 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: A Netscape Founder Is Poised to Re-enter the Browser Wars

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
It has been 15 years since Marc Andreessen developed the Netscape Internet browser that introduced millions of people to the Internet. 
 After its early success, Netscape was roundly defeated by Microsoft in the so-called browser wars of the 1990s that dominated the Web's first chapter. 
 Mr. Andreessen appears to want a rematch. Now a prominent Silicon Valley financier, Mr. Andreessen is backing a start-up called RockMelt, staffed with some of his close associates, that is building a new Internet browser, according to people with knowledge of his investment. 
 ''We have backed a really good team,'' Mr. Andreessen said in an interview earlier this summer. A moment later, Mr. Andreessen appeared to regret his comment, saying he was not ready to talk about any aspect of the company. 
 But Mr. Andreessen suggested the new browser would be different, saying that most other browsers had not kept pace with the evolution of the Web, which had grown from an array of static Web pages into a network of complex Web sites and applications. ''There are all kinds of things that you would do differently if you are building a browser from scratch,'' Mr. Andreessen said. 
 RockMelt was co-founded by Eric Vishria and Tim Howes, both former executives at Opsware, a company that Mr. Andreessen co-founded and then sold to Hewlett-Packard in 2007 for about $1.6 billion. Mr. Howes also worked at Netscape with Mr. Andreessen. 
 Little else is known about RockMelt, and Mr. Vishria was unwilling to discuss it. ''We are at very early stages of development,'' Mr. Vishria said. ''Talking about it at this stage is not useful.'' 
 After Microsoft defeated Netscape, it controlled more than 90 percent of the browser market. Interest in browsers among technology companies waned and innovation ground to a halt. But in the last 18 months, the Internet browser has become a battleground again with giants like Google, Apple and Microsoft fighting one another. 
 The renewed interest in browsers is partly a result of the success of Mozilla, a nonprofit. The speedier, safer and more innovative Mozilla Firefox browser, introduced in 2004, has grabbed 23 percent of the market, and Microsoft's share has dropped to 68 percent. 
 But the latest battle was also prompted by a giant shift in computing that is increasingly making the Web, not the PC, the place where people interact with complex software applications. Technology giants now see the browser as a control point to what users do online, and they want a say in shaping it. 
 In the last 18 months, Microsoft and Apple introduced greatly improved versions of their browsers, Internet Explorer and Safari. And Google entered the fray last fall when it released its Chrome browser. Last month, Google said it would build an operating system, also called Chrome, with its principal function being to support its browser. 
 ''The days of working in isolation on your computer are mostly gone,'' said John Lilly, the chief executive of Mozilla. ''Because the Web has become so central to what we do, and the browser is the technology that mediates our interaction with the Web, the way the browser works is really important. There is a lot of room for innovation.'' 
 Mr. Andreessen's backing is certain to make RockMelt the focus of intense attention. For now, the company is keeping a lid on its plans. On the company's Web site, the corporate name and the words ''coming soon'' are topped by a logo of the earth, with cracks exposing what seems to be molten lava from the planet's core. A privacy policy on the site, which was removed after a reporter made inquiries to Mr. Vishria, indicates the browser is intended to be coupled somehow with Facebook. Mr. Andreessen serves as a director of Facebook. 
 The policy says that a person could use a Facebook ID to log into RockMelt, suggesting that the browser may be tailored to display Facebook updates and other features as users browse the Web. Another browser, Flock, based on Firefox, already incorporates feeds from social networking sites. 
 But RockMelt is not currently working with Facebook. ''We are not aware of any details about RockMelt and its product,'' said Brandee Barker, a Facebook spokeswoman. 
 In the interview this summer, Mr. Andreessen credited Mozilla with coming up with an economic model to support Web browsers. The organization has an agreement with Google that makes Google the standard home page when people start Firefox, and sends them to Google when they type something into the search box at the top of the browser. In 2007, Google paid Mozilla about $75 million for the alliance. 
 ''Browsers today have a great business model,'' Mr. Andreessen said. 
 But experts say a big challenge for any new Web browser could be distribution. Despite Google's heavy promotion of Chrome, the browser has gained just 2 percent of the market. 
 ''If anybody could do it today, one would imagine Google would be best positioned, and it is obvious they have made only meager gains,'' said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School, and the co-author of ''Competing on Internet Time: Lessons From Netscape and Its Battle With Microsoft.'' Professor Yoffie said that aiming the browser at Facebook users could be a good strategy. 
 ''If you can get Facebook's millions of users to think that this is a better way to do what they do on Facebook, that would be an opportunity to take advantage of,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marc Andreessen is backing a start-up called RockMelt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL McCARTEN/REUTERS)(pg. B1)
 Marc Andreessen in 1996. Netscape was the dominant Web browser until Microsoft introduced Internet Explorer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET BROWSERS (94%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); INTERVIEWS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); APPLE INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



357 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change as a Security Issue

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Climate Change Seen as Threat to Security and Drain on Military'' (front page, Aug. 9):
 Climate change threatens to undermine global stability and security because of its human consequences, including widespread hunger, water shortages, forced migration, conflict over scarce resources and disease. Those facing the most extreme risk are the poorest with the fewest resources and the least capacity to cope, despite contributing the least to the crisis.
 Climate change legislation must urgently and aggressively reduce our emissions. But because of the damage already caused, some consequences are now unavoidable. 
 Strong emission reductions must be paired with adequate assistance for vulnerable communities to adapt to the negative effects of climate change. This will in turn reduce security and humanitarian challenges and costs down the road. 
 In our interconnected world, our national security relies on human security around the world. By investing in adaptation efforts, which help build people's resilience to climate change, we can save lives and strengthen poor communities worldwide while also ensuring a safer and more peaceful future.
 David Waskow Climate Change Program Director Oxfam America Washington, Aug. 10, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The United Kingdom has already integrated the threats presented by climate change into our national security planning, and we welcome work by others to do the same.
 In our updated National Security Strategy, published in June, we set out how climate change will act as a threat multiplier in years to come, worsening problems like poverty, mass migration and regional instability around the world. 
 The environmental and economic arguments for all countries to reduce their emissions are relatively well known; the security implications are becoming more apparent and are increasingly being considered by countries like the United States, the United Kingdom and our partners around the world. 
 At the United Nations climate conference in Copenhagen in December, our governments have the opportunity through an ambitious global agreement to prevent dangerous climate change from happening. National security is not the only motivation for us to reduce global emissions, but it is certainly a compelling one.
 As our prime minister, Gordon Brown, said in June, ''Not just our well-being, but the security of our planet and our humanity is at stake.'' 
 Dominick Chilcott Deputy Head of Mission British Embassy Washington, Aug. 10, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I appreciate The New York Times's addressing the national security impacts of global warming. As your article notes, reducing greenhouse gas emissions will help lessen these threats.
 But as vital as that is, it is not enough. We must also take strong and effective action now to lessen the effect of climate change on already fragile natural systems and on the people who depend on those natural systems for food, water, shelter and their very survival.
 As a retired brigadier general who served for 32 years in the Army before joining the Nature Conservancy, I hope our elected officials will pay heed to our military leaders. They understand that taking action now to address the conditions that lead to conflict is far better and far cheaper in every sense of the word than letting those threats emerge unaddressed.
 Bob Barnes Senior Policy Adviser The Nature Conservancy Arlington, Va., Aug. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The security threat forced by global climate change is certainly a worrisome issue. But if the root cause of climate change is not addressed, all attempts to ameliorate this threat will fail. That underlying cause is the rampant growth of the human population. 
 The strain we place on our planet's natural resources is independent of increasing temperatures and rising sea levels. They will simply make the impending crisis happen earlier and with greater force.
 In just the last 40 years, we have added 3 billion people to the planet, going from a population of 3.7 billion to 6.7 billion. It is estimated that at least 9 billion humans will be searching for food, clean water and energy in another 40 years.
 The Earth's great gift of oil may be completely gone. Imagine a world with no oil and 9 billion people, with more on the way. 
 It is not just our carbon footprint we need to reduce; it is our human footprint.
 Tobias Owen Honolulu, Aug. 9, 2009
 The writer is an astronomer.
 To the Editor:
 It's nice to know that the national security establishment of which I was a part has belatedly awoken to climate change and its impending impact on the planet.
 National security officials are usually very pragmatic, and this would (and should) have happened years ago but for an artificial coma induced by the Bush administration.
 That said, the scurrying around now as to ''how to deal with this'' worries me as all too typical of the imperial overstretch to which the United States is prone.
 We are not going to surmount or solve climate change. It's too late for that. We along with the rest of the planet are going to suffer it, and the sooner that mind-set is absorbed in Washington -- and we adopt a bit of modesty in accepting disasters and some chaos abroad without intervening -- the better for our military, our society and the American taxpayer.
 Marc E. Nicholson Washington, Aug. 9, 2009
 The writer is a retired Foreign Service officer.
 To the Editor:
 Your article about climate change was very timely given the recent havoc in the Pacific because of stronger hurricanes, typhoons and so forth. And there have been so many ''natural'' disasters in the last few years that it is becoming apparent to me that it is not natural.
 People fighting to stay alive through these events surely won't recognize borders. Our national security as well as our health systems and our economy could all fall apart.
 While a bill to curb global warming has already passed the House, it sets up a complex system that could take time to put into effect. Representative John B. Larson and Representative Bob Inglis both have carbon tax bills that would be simple to enforce and could, if passed, be acted on right away.
 If someone were firing a missile at us, we would act immediately to protect ourselves. We need to treat this national security threat with the same urgency.
 Holly Foster Poway, Calif., Aug. 11, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATHERINE STREETER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



358 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Rose Last Week

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The number of newly laid-off workers filing claims for unemployment benefits rose unexpectedly last week, while continuing claims fell sharply.
 The Labor Department said in a reportthat new claims increased to a seasonally adjusted 558,000, from 554,000 the previous week. Analysts expected new claims to drop to 545,000, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 The number of people remaining on the benefit rolls fell to 6.2 million, from 6.34 million the previous week. Analysts had expected a slight decline.
 The four-week average of initial claims, which smoothes out fluctuations, rose by 8,500, to 565,000. That reverses six weeks of decline.
 Initial claims reflect the pace of layoffs by employers. The department said last week that companies cut 247,000 jobs in July, a large number but still the smallest in almost a year.
 The unemployment rate dipped to 9.4 percent in July, from 9.5 percent, its first drop in 15 months.
 There were 617,000 new jobless claims in late June, before the figures were distorted last month by a shift in the timing of temporary auto plant shutdowns. That shift caused claims to drop sharply and then jump up last month.
 Claims fell steeply last week, however, when the data were no longer affected by the distortions.
 Still, initial claims remain far above the roughly 325,000 that economists say is consistent with a healthy economy. New claims last fell below 300,000 in early 2007.
 Including federal emergency benefit programs, 9.25 million people received unemployment compensation in the week ended July 25, the latest data available. That was down from a record total of 9.35 million the previous week. Congress has added up to 53 extra weeks of benefits on top of the 26 typically provided by the states.
 Among the states, Alabama had the largest increase in claims, with 721. The next largest increases were in Washington, Nebraska, Kentucky and Delaware. The state data lag initial claims by one week.
 California reported the largest drop in claims, of 7,258, which it attributed to fewer layoffs in the service industry. Michigan, Tennessee, Florida and Georgia had the next largest decreases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); LAYOFFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



359 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Post Increase

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
More Americans than forecast filed claims for unemployment insurance last week, the Labor Department said Thursday, underscoring the threat to spending from the continued deterioration in the job market. 
 The Labor Department said 558,000 people filed first-time claims for jobless benefits last week, up from 554,000 the week before.
 ''Until we start seeing job growth, consumers are still going to be very cautious,'' said Michael Gregory, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. ''It's premature to talk about the sustainability of a recovery,'' he said, until there's ''follow-through on the demand side.''
 Other reports showed companies trimmed inventories in June for a 10th consecutive month, and prices of imported goods dropped in July for the first time in six months as the cost of commodities such as petroleum and chemicals decreased.
 The economy has lost about 6.7 million jobs since the recession started in December 2007, the worst of any downturn since World War II. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); RECESSION (88%); IMPORT TRADE (85%); INVENTORIES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



360 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 5957 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE TREASURE OF ULYSSES DAVIS,' through Sept. 6. Ulysses Davis (1914-1990) was a Savannah, Ga., barber who whittled and carved wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow. Organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, this show is by far the largest presentation of Mr. Davis's sculpture to be seen outside Savannah and the first to reveal the full scope of his imagination. His best-known works, carvings of historical figures, take a backseat to hybrid beasts and hydra-headed figures. It makes clear that he wasn't just a patriotic folk artist, or an African-American artist affirming his heritage, or an inward-looking, visionary artist. He was all of these, which is to say that no single cliche of ''outsider'' art quite fits him. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090813 
 ASIA SOCIETY: YANG FUDONG: 'SEVEN INTELLECTUALS IN A BAMBOO FOREST,' through Sept. 13. Presented in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum, Mr. Yang's hypnotic, five-part black-and-white movie, ''Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest,'' tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of fashion-model-pretty young people, from a breathtaking mountain summit to a busy city where the disjunctive imagery becomes increasingly surrealistic and comical. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090813
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'LIVING AND DREAMING,' through Sept. 13. This annual exhibition presents works by young artists who have completed a preparatory program for careers as professionals. Most look as if they could use a few years more of seasoning, but a handful appear to be artists to keep an eye on. The highlights include Eva Davidova's surreal videos; Meredith Drum's enigmatic, low-budget sci-fi film; Nathan Bennett's walk-in room resembling a set for a Stanley Kubrick space odyssey; and Jeffrey Hargrave's mock-racist caricatures. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania , (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090813
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIGHT OF THE SUFIS: THE MYSTICAL ARTS OF ISLAM,' through Sept. 6. ''What's in your head -- throw it away! What's in your hand -- give it up! Whatever happens -- don't turn away from it.'' That's how a 10th-century Persian spiritual master defined the Islamic devotional practice known as Sufism. Countless other definitions have been proposed since, almost as many as for Islam itself. And variety -- paintings, ceramics, mosque lamps, books -- is what you find in this tiny, exquisite show in the Brooklyn Museum's newly reinstalled Islamic galleries. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090813
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090813
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20090813
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'YINKA SHONIBARE MBE,' through Sept. 20. This is an important show for Mr. Shonibare, a British-Nigerian artist who emerged in the late 1990s and was made a member of the Order of the British Empire in 2005. His sculptural tableaus, which revolve around Victorian-era costumes made from 20th-century fabrics associated with Africa, are riotously colorful; their themes of frivolity and excess feel current. But with few exceptions, Mr. Shonibare serves his post-colonialism straight up. The show is rescued by smart integration with the permanent collection: a kind of scavenger hunt through the museum's American period rooms, where Mr. Shonibare's figures of children at play inhabit historical settings. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090813
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHIONING FELT,' through Sept. 7. Tribute is paid to the world's oldest textile (no loom required) in all its sturdy, cosseting, beautiful, shape-shifting, dye-friendly majesty. The show includes contemporary furnishings, garments, jewelry and room dividers, as well as two large installation works. The felt runs from raw to cooked -- that is, furry to gossamer -- and in some of the most intriguing instances it is mated with lacquer, plastic, LED lights, metal or coral beads, as well as silk, linen or cotton. There are episodes of frivolity. A few earlier works -- including a Mongolian runner and a saddle blanket -- reunite function and decoration and distort familiar motifs in wonderful ways. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20090813
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'PORTRAITS, PASTELS, PRINTS: WHISTLER IN THE FRICK COLLECTION,' through Aug. 23. This summer's refurbishment of the Frick's East Gallery, where four full-length portraits by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) normally hang, has occasioned a small celebration of Whistler's art. The four portraits have been moved into the Oval Room, where they are joined by a seascape; etchings and pastels of Venice are on view in the Cabinet Room. Both displays reinforce a suspicion about Whistler: that despite his oft-professed regard for the abstract qualities of music -- all those ''symphonies,'' ''arrangements'' and ''nocturnes'' -- he had a rare talent for conveying specific places and personalities. 1 East 70th Street, at Fifth Avenue , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)20090813
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE SWEENEY DECADE: ACQUISITIONS OF THE 1959 INAUGURAL,' through Sept. 2. What did they get, and when did they get it? This perennial yardstick of a museum's sensitivity to new art is quite useful in this show. All 24 paintings and sculptures date from the 1950s and were acquired by the Guggenheim within a year or so of their making, and many were part of the first exhibition in Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral building. They constitute a mixture of the good, the bad and the innocuous, as well as European, Asian and American. But they also attest to the vision of James Johnson Sweeney, the Guggenheim's second director, who steered the museum away from its founding obsession with ''nonobjective painting'' and into the broad, challenging terrain of art after 1950. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20090813
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AVEDON FASHION: 1944-2000,' through Sept. 20. The first museum retrospective devoted to Richard Avedon's fashion photography exudes a contagious joie de vivre. With postwar Paris as a stage set, Avedon made fashion photography new by adding movement and then narrative to his images, along with ironic self-awareness and a buoyant exuberance. The best of his early images are as perfect as the best work of Jackson Pollock or Jasper Johns from this period and as profoundly representative of it. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Smith)20090813
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THEY CALLED ME MAYER JULY: PAINTED MEMORIES OF A JEWISH CHILDHOOD IN POLAND BEFORE THE HOLOCAUST,' through Oct. 1. Introducing the reluctant painter and accidental memoirist Mayer Kirschenblatt, now 92, who has devoted the last two decades to documenting life between the wars in and around the provincial city of Opatow (Apt in Yiddish), Poland. Wrought with irresistible detail and folk-art dispatch, the paintings begin with his mother's kitchen and reflect an omnivorous curiosity about everyday everything, aided by an apparently photographic memory. Labels pick up where the paintings leave off; words and images combine in a marvel of a book accomplished in collaboration with the artist's daughter, a folklorist whose career choice was shaped by her father's stories. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)20090813
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AFGHANISTAN: HIDDEN TREASURES FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, KABUL,' through Sept. 20. The 200 pre-Islamic objects in this important and moving show date from the Bronze Age to the first century A.D. They dropped from sight during the country's recent turmoil, which was deadly for both people and artwork alike. Courageous curators were their salvation; the rediscovery of the pieces was a moment of national thanksgiving. Consisting of vessels, sculpture, architectural ornaments, jewelry and furniture decoration made of bronze, stone, glass, ceramic, ivory, gold and gemstone, they attest to an astounding cosmopolitanism and diverse cultural heritage. Once, many trade routes led through Afghanistan, and proof of its former centrality is both dazzling and heartening. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090813
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIVING LINE: SELECTED INDIAN DRAWINGS FROM THE SUBHASH KAPOOR GIFT,' through Sept. 7. This almost supernaturally beautiful exhibition presents 40 mostly small drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Rendered with amazing skill, the subjects include bearded aristocrats and bejeweled women; hunting scenes; wild animals and mythic beasts fighting; and gods, goddesses and demons ascending and descending. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090813
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090813
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PEN AND PARCHMENT: DRAWING IN THE MIDDLE AGES,' through Aug 23. This quietly ravishing exhibition ventures where few shows have gone before, with 50 rarely seen works. They prove medieval drawing to be vital, diverse and essential to the medium's Renaissance blossoming. They reveal the medium untangling from manuscript illumination and Christianity in general -- although not without first reveling in some astounding Psalters, gospels, epistles and a saint's life or two. It re-embraces antiquity and provides a framework for speculative (read, secular) thought. The show ends with the visionary drawings of Opicinus de Canistris, a 13th-century Italian cleric who diagrammed his own notion of the relationship between the earthly and spiritual church. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090813
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Oct. 25. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending 130 feet from one end of the open-air deck to the other and rising 29 feet overhead. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090813
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PAGES OF GOLD: MEDIEVAL ILLUMINATIONS FROM THE MORGAN,' through Sept. 13. This quietly compelling show assembles ''orphan'' leaves (illuminated pages separated from medieval manuscripts and sold, individually, to collectors). Organized geographically, the show allows a comparison of illumination styles in England, Italy, Spain and other countries and regions. It also highlights the figures who created and participated in the market for single leaves. They include an Italian abbot, an English art historian and a mysterious artist known as the Spanish Forger. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20090813
 MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'SCRIPTURE FOR THE EYES: BIBLE ILLUSTRATION IN NETHERLANDISH PRINTS OF THE 16TH CENTURY,' through Sept. 27. Abounding in sex, violence and supernatural happenings, the Bible has been a great source of inspiration for visual artists. This superb show features pieces by some of the biggest names in the history of Western printmaking. Woodcuts and engravings by Lucas van Leyden and Hendrick Goltzius alone would make a visit to the museum worthwhile, but among the 79 works on view there are lots more wildly imaginative and technically amazing feats of printmaking. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20090813
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RON ARAD: NO DISCIPLINE,' through Oct. 19. The first large American survey of this Israeli-born, London-based designer proves some of the virtues but many of the vices of its subtitle. Rambunctious, installed to poor advantage and ultimately inconclusive, it demonstrates with only mediocre results Mr. Arad's ambition to extend the design discipline into architecture and sculpture. There are too many toys for rich people here, along with evidence that when Mr. Arad sticks closest to functional design, he also comes closest to art. You have to set limits to transcend them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090813
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross- section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090813
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What Is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper's Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke to today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090813
 NEUE GALERIE: 'FOCUS: OSKAR KOKOSCHKA, WORKS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through Oct. 5. More a taste whetter than a substantial introduction, this exhibition presents six of the Expressionist portraits that made Kokoschka's reputation in the pre-World War I era and about 40 works on paper. The early paintings of eminent Viennese citizens still pack a considerable psychological punch. The gaunt, hollow-eyed ''Martha Hirsch (Dreaming Woman)'' projects an eerie, erotic charm, while her male counterparts resemble zombies and mad professors. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)20090813
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'DOROTHY IANNONE: LIONESS,' through Oct. 18. High priestess, matriarch, sex goddess: the self-taught American artist Dorothy Iannone has been called all these things and more. Now, at 75, Ms. Iannone is having her first solo show at an American museum. It includes just a smattering of early work: four paintings, one sculpture, an artist's book and a series of wooden cutouts. It is complemented, however, by an exhibition at the Anton Kern Gallery in Chelsea that spans the 1960s to the present. Both shows deliver an invigorating shock to an art world lulled, as of late, by the tasteful, conservative and blue-chip. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090813
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 24. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090813
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/ OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Never-Neverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090813
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'DAN GRAHAM: BEYOND,' through Oct. 11. This beautifully installed retrospective pays tribute to an influential artist who doesn't necessarily call himself that, and it tends to bear him out. Most impressive are a series of early Conceptual artworks involving surgically precise uses of language and magazines; a series of deadpan, Minimalist-inspired photographs of New Jersey architecture; and ''Rock My Religion,'' an imaginative video about the roots of rock 'n' roll. The video installations and walk-in glass-and-mirror pavilions -- admired because they are interactive -- quickly grow tedious or gimmicky. The many artists who claim Mr. Graham as precedent may surpass him, but there is more than one way to be important. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090813
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SADIE BENNING: PLAY PAUSE,' through Sept. 20. A new stop-action animation by this former film prodigy uses an avalanche of simple, almost naive gouache drawings, sometimes tinted with color, to prowl the margins of urban society. The result is low-key with undercurrents: a picture of the everyday sublime riddled with suggestions of longing, otherness and the difficulties of connection. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090813
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'CLAES OLDENBURG: EARLY SCULPTURE, DRAWINGS, AND HAPPENINGS FILMS' AND 'CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN: THE MUSIC ROOM,' through Sept. 6. This pair of exhibitions leans heavily on the Whitney's sizable collection of Oldenburg and Oldenburg/Van Bruggen drawings, some of which were shown in 2002. But they also include newly restored, never-exhibited films of Mr. Oldenburg's Happenings and a major kinetic sculpture, ''Ice Bag -- Scale C'' (1971), brought back to life by conservators. A centralized gallery of early drawings and soft sculptures defines Mr. Oldenburg's epicurean branch of Pop, with works like ''Giant BLT (Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich)'' and ''French Fries and Ketchup'' (both 1963), served up on low, platterlike pedestals. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090813
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'PAUL JENKINS IN THE 1960S AND 1970S: SPACE, COLOR AND LIGHT,' through Sept. 25. While seriously overhung, this exhibition affords a rare, extensive look at the work of an artist who borrowed from Abstract Expressionism and then Color Field Painting to devise flowing, billowing veils of color that dazzle with their formal acrobatics and luminous, jewel-toned hues. Working with his well-known ivory knives, Mr. Jenkins makes his colors leap, overlap and splinter, pitting them against whiplash lines and stark white backgrounds that increase their luminosity. His paintings have frequently been too gorgeous for their own good, which means that they can verge on slick. But the selection here shows him at the height of his powers. D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue , (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com. (Smith)20090813
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'JOHN CURRIN: WORKS ON PAPER: A FIFTEEN YEAR SURVEY OF WOMEN,' through next Friday. This show of drawings by the well-known figure painter John Currin begins in the late '80s and ends in 2003, the year the artist, on the cusp of a Whitney survey, left the Andrea Rosen gallery for the Gagosian empire. With loans from more than 50 people and institutions, this show is a pointed reminder of how careers are carefully shaped by dealers as well as by artists (most crucially in the early stages). But mostly the exhibition is a celebration of Mr. Currin's various female archetypes: hobos, matrons, muses, mannerist nudes and, of course, women with scandalously large breasts. Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street , (212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com. (Rosenberg)20090813
 ANNA MOLSKA: 'THE WEAVERS'; through Sept. 5. The New York gallery debut of this young Polish artist consists of a short film that transfers the setting of an 1892 German play about an uprising by exploited weavers to a Silesian coal mine. A rough-edged form of collage results, as the dialogue and voice-over don't match the images. The piece evokes 19th-century realist painting, but the point is made without getting heavy-handed: in many parts of the world labor conditions have not advanced much since the Industrial Revolution. Broadway 1602, 1182 Broadway, at 28th Street , (212) 481-0362, broadway1602.com. (Smith)20090813
 'NAKED!,' through Sept. 19. Although it includes some images of men, a more accurate title for this entertainingly lubricious show would be ''Naked Women of Childbearing Age.'' A big part of the show's appeal is its wacky eclecticism. The 44 works range from a 1626 painting of the river god Alpheus chasing the nymph Arethusa, by Moyses van Uyttenbroeck, to Mel Ramos's 2007 sculpture of a voluptuous woman emerging from an open banana peel. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20090813
 'PHASE TWO'; through Oct. 25. For a glimpse of the future of contemporary art, or at least a slice of that future, spend some time with the second round of exhibitions at X Initiative. Each of the three largest provides immersion in the work of a young, promising European artist working in time-based mediums. Luke Fowler's films about artists and eccentrics push the documentary form into art. Keren Cytter's visceral videos wreak havoc with numerous cinematic genres and a few from television. Tris Vonna-Michell combines slide projections and recordings of his rapid-fire spoken-word performances to trace his experiences in ways both random and crazily obsessive. ''Today and Everyday,'' a beguiling if conceptually daring group show, is also on view, along with works by Seth Price and Fritz Haeg. X-Initiative, 548 West 22nd Street , (917) 697-4886, x-initiative.org. (Smith)20090813
 SCOTT REEDER: 'PAINTER,' through Aug. 29. Mr. Reeder paints amusing, cartoonish images with a refined, brushy touch; an acute feel for color; and a kind of twisted reverence for Bonnard, Picasso and other godfathers of Modernist painting. ''Suicidal Shape (Study in Red),'' in which a blank pink canvas is suspended by a hangman's noose in an empty watermelon-red room, makes fun of the tortured-artist cliche while nodding to Matisse's ''Red Studio.'' Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street , (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Johnson)20090813
 'SUMMER PICTURES'; through Sept. 12. When it comes to painting, the fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi knows what he likes and then some. His group show of works by friends and one relative transcends such connections and explores issues like landscape, still life, breakfast and color -- especially color. The artists include Jane Freilicher, Maureen Gallace, Wayne Thiebaud, Maira Kalman and Adrianne Lobel (a theatrical designer). Their work looks fresh and diverse, like a party of people who don't know one another, but end up getting along famously. Julie Saul Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street , (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com. (Smith)20090813
 Galleries: Other
 'MAURIZIO CATTELAN IS DEAD: LIFE AND WORK, 1960-2009,' through Aug. 23. A mock survey of the career of Mr. Cattelan, an international scenester known for his sculptures of Pope John Paul II struck down by a meteor, and other outrages, this indifferently produced show is mainly in the form of a timeline with extensive biographical texts and photocopied images. It is surprisingly entertaining if you like to read on your feet, and it raises some good questions about art world anthropology. Mr. Cattelan, by the way, is still with us. Triple Candie, 500 West 148th Street, Hamilton Heights , (212) 368-3333, triplecandie.org. (Johnson)20090813
 Public Art
 'PLOT/09: THIS WORLD & NEARER ONES,' through Sept. 20. The big draw in the city's first quadrennial of public art -- an exhibition of 19 site-specific works organized by Creative Time on Governors Island -- is the beautiful, haunted, car-free island itself. Standouts among the uneven melange of artworks include videos by Guido van der Werve, Adam Chodzko, Judi Werthein and the ingenious Bruce High Quality Foundation. Outdoors, beyond the dark rooms, Susan Philipsz, Teresa Margolles, Tue Greenfort, Mark Wallinger and especially Klaus Weber also add substance. But the degree of site-specificity fluctuates wildly, and the concept as a whole is inadvertently called into question. (212) 206-6674, creativetime.org. (Smith)20090813
 Out of Town
 ZOE LEONARD, through Sept. 7. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has an exhibition at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. It is different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, it shares a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y. , (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. (Holland Cotter)20090813
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'THE ART OF POWER: ROYAL ARMOR AND PORTRAITS FROM IMPERIAL SPAIN,' through Nov. 1. Drawn from the Royal Armory in Madrid, one of the oldest and greatest repositories of armor in the world, this exhibition presents full suits of armor, as well as individual helmets, shields, swords and armor for horses. There are portraits of 16th- and 17th-century Spanish kings in armor, too, and three spectacular tapestries. But it is the extraordinarily sumptuous metalwork, produced not for warfare but for ceremonial occasions, that is the main attraction. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington , (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Ken Johnson)20090813
 PEABODY ESSEX MUSEUM: 'THE GOLDEN AGE OF DUTCH SEASCAPES,' through Sept. 7. What with all those cataclysmic storms, shipwrecks, sea battles and marauding pirates in 17th-century Dutch marine paintings, it's a wonder anyone dared venture off land at all. There are periods of calm in this show of 72 expertly rendered seascapes, but the overall impression is harrowing. Nautical history buffs will be in heaven. East India Square, 161 Essex Street, Salem, Mass. , (866) 745-1876, pem.org. (Johnson)20090813
 Last Chance
 'EAST COAST VIDEO'; closes on Friday. With one exception, this smart, cool show presents videos involving straightforward shots of human performers. Kate Gilmore bravely performs while being pelted by tomatoes; Alex McQuilkin holds her breath underwater to dreamy effect; Rashaad Newsome directs women to practice racially coded mannerisms; Jamie Diamond offers a study in frustratingly lukewarm sexual tension; and the team of Caraballo-Farman documents colorful, battery-driven vibrators running until exhausted. Ramis Barquet, 532 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 675-3421, ramisbarquet.com. (Johnson)20090813
 JONAH FREEMAN AND JUSTIN LOWE: 'BLACK ACID CO-OP'; closes on Saturday. This immense, labor-intensive, maniacally contrived warren of some dozen rooms, interiors and passageways tours some of the darker sides of American life and its always evolving recreational drug cultures. The itinerary includes two home-style meth labs (one functioning, one exploded); a red-carpeted gallery of pseudo-artworks; and a hippie haven. Things seem realistic enough on the surface, but artistic license regularly intervenes, adding curve balls about perception, voyeurism and display. And yet beyond all this, it is the impression of different styles of American detachment and dysfunction caving in upon one another that sticks, underscored by a bleak, empty final chamber where the only choice is to turn around and retrace your steps. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, SoHo , (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Smith)20090813
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHEPARD FAIREY: SUPPLY AND DEMAND'; closes on Sunday. The surprise of the first museum retrospective for the creator of the Obama ''Hope'' poster is that almost everything he does, from abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his album covers for Led Zeppelin and other bands, is visually arresting. But in tracking his 20-year evolution from aesthetic anarchist to savvy, all-purpose designer and illustrator, the exhibition inadvertently casts doubt on his authenticity as a radical street artist. 100 Northern Avenue, Boston , (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org. 20090813
 (Johnson)
 BLANCHE LAZZELL: 'WHITE-LINE COLOR WOODCUTS'; closes on Friday. This show is a wonderful introduction to one of the unsung geniuses of early American Modernism, Blanche Lazzell (1878-1956), an artist who perfected the relatively new technique of white-line woodcut prints into a truly, if modestly, visionary art. The elimination of black lines between the woodcut shapes created an inherent luminosity that Lazzell exploited with her superb sense of color and Cubist-flavored composition. A denizen of Cape Cod, she depicted harbor scenes, landscapes and village rooftops and backyards in images that replace the expected sentimentality with fervent joy. The light has been switched off. Craig F. Starr Gallery, 5 East 73rd Street , (212) 570-1739, starr-art.com. (Smith)20090813
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRANCIS BACON: A CENTENARY RETROSPECTIVE'; closes on Sunday. This 66-work survey starts with the stagy existentialism of Bacon's early work (the semihuman fiends, screaming popes, flanks of beef) and proceeds to the effulgent colors, insistent rhythms and true anguish of his grand triptychs and portraits. It suggests that his greatest achievement was his ability to paint convincingly men having sex and sometimes making love. As his hero Picasso had done for men and women, Bacon turned sexual passion into a pictorial event, using paint on canvas with finesse and no small sense of drama, while operating under cover of modernism. For once, the male gaze turned emphatically selfward. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090813
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'GORD PETERAN: FURNITURE MEETS ITS MAKER'; closes on Sunday. This Canadian furniture maker who is widely admired in craft creates what he calls ''furnitural'' sculpture. He is a consummate technician, and his play with elements of furniture is often amusing and sometimes conceptually provocative. ''Table Made of Wood'' (1999) wittily makes its title literal. It is a side table made by gluing together hundreds of wood scraps, adding up to what is as much a Cubist representation as a functional table. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090813
 'PROJECT SPACE & ROOFTOP: PAULA HAYES'; closes on Friday. The best works in this show, which spreads from gallery space to terrace, are hand-blown clear-glass terrariums inhabited by either plants or crystals; rubbery planters of several kinds; and some eco-conscious landscaping devices. All blur the lines dividing sculpture, gardening and design into an art of purposeful, playful beauty and serenity. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com. (Smith)20090813
 'DASH SNOW, 1981-2009: A COMMUNITY MEMORIAL'; closes on Saturday. In the wake of the recent death of the artist and downtown art star Dash Snow, friends and family have lent photographs and other works by and about him. The walls of the gallery are densely covered, with photographs of the artist in the great majority. The show gives evidence of his charismatic personality, photogenic looks and propensity for fast living. It is not a chance to evaluate his art, but it does raise the question of whether the art can supersede the personality and life story. Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street, SoHo , (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Smith)20090813
 'YOUR GOLD TEETH II'; closes on Friday. This exceptional show -- titled after a song by Steely Dan -- ignores the distinctions between art and craft, old and new, commercial and fine. The many works are arranged in unusually tight clusters without labels; formal and visual affinities are established before you quite know what you're looking at. Craft world greats like Peter Voulkos, Ed Rossbach, Marvin Lipofsky, George Ohr and Edward Moulthrop (you can look them up) rub shoulders with fine-art practitioners like Barkley L. Hendricks, Sergej Jensen, Alexandra Bircken, Alighiero E. Boetti and Cady Noland. All kinds of visual prejudices are shaken up, if not startled out of existence. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com. (Smith)20090813

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'The Treasure of Ulysses Davis': ''Knowledge'' is one of several works in this show at the American Folk Art Museum, closing on Sept. 6. Mr. Davis, a barber who whittled wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow, is best known for his carvings of historical figures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM)(C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (66%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (65%); RELIGION (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



361 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: To Market, to Market, For Local Food, Local Chat

BYLINE: By KATHRYN MATTHEWS

 BODY:
AFTER buying a weekend house in the Hudson Valley town of Hyde Park, in 2003, Karina Krepp and her husband, Christien Methot, attended the grand opening of a farmers' market, held on the grassy sprawl of the town's drive-in theater. As city dwellers who frequented the Union Square farmers' market in Manhattan, they had anticipated a rinky-dink set-up, confessed Ms. Krepp, 37, a freelance personal trainer, and Mr. Methot, 39, a lighting designer. 
 Instead that first visit was a revelation. Chatting with farmers, running into neighbors and meeting like-minded people as children milled about, they enjoyed the access to their community. ''There's nothing like buying farm-fresh food, supporting your neighbors and being social all in one fell swoop,'' Ms. Krepp said. 
 The agricultural bounty of the Hudson Valley, once known as the ''breadbasket of New York,'' is now celebrated at green markets that have sprouted throughout New York City since 1976. Increasingly, however, farmers' markets have also become an important part of the social and economic fabric in Dutchess and Columbia Counties, where second-home owners -- many of them from New York City -- have helped bring an appreciation for locally grown food back to the source. Thanks to the locavore trend, both fledgling and established markets have managed to gain a greater toehold in Hudson Valley communities.
 ''In 2007 we saw a significant uptick of visitors, reflecting this mind-set shift toward 'buying local,' '' said Cheryl Paff, business manager for the Rhinebeck Farmers' Market in Dutchess County, now in its 15th year. Food safety concerns also contribute to their popularity, said Diane Eggert, executive director of the Farmers' Market Federation of New York.
 Three miles north of the Culinary Institute of America, the Hyde Park market, with its unusual drive-in setting and low-key atmosphere, attracts a mix of locals, tourists, weekenders and students who sometimes do cooking demonstrations as well. ''The social scene has really evolved,'' said Michael Dupree, a founder of the market and now chairman of the Hyde Park Planning Board. 
 Even tiny markets are a draw, like the one in Hillsdale in Columbia County. There are fewer than a dozen stands, and it is only open every other weekend between Memorial Day and Labor Day. Yul and Arthur Kaseman, who have a weekend home nearby, go as often as they can. Ms. Kaseman, 34, a hedge-fund client-services specialist in Manhattan, said she likes to understand the source of the food she buys. Hillsdale's intimate size means that she can connect easily with local growers and learn about their practices. ''When I get the additional information I'm seeking from a farmer who is my neighbor -- not just a commercial seller -- it makes the food I buy that much more special,'' she said.
 Talea and Doug Fincke, both 50, agree. ''Small farming is our passion, and we think small is big,'' Ms. Fincke said. For 23 years they have been growing fruit -- and recently some vegetables -- on 40 acres at the 18th-century Montgomery Place estate in Annandale-on-Hudson, owned by the nonprofit preservation group Historic Hudson Valley. The couple run the Montgomery Place Orchards Farm Stand nearby, a showcase for their produce and homemade jams as well as local products like Awesome Farm's pasture-raised whole chickens and Nettle Meadow's herb-infused fromage blanc.
 ''We're seasonal purists,'' Ms. Fincke said, pushing red raspberries through a sieve at her jam-making table on a recent Sunday afternoon. The Finckes' just-picked black raspberries, white peaches, antique apples and heirloom tomatoes are a magnet for second-home owners, nearby Bard College faculty members and students, and famous visitors, like the actress Uma Thurman and the singer Natalie Merchant.
 For Nancy Ploeger, who owns a weekend home in Claverack, in Columbia County, the pleasure of eating food ''just plucked out of the dirt or off a tree'' is compounded by her appreciation for how hard farmers like Ruth and Vic Ambrose work. The Ambroses, both in their 80s, remain hands-on at their Scarecrow Farm in Hollowville, growing produce and raising sheep for wool and free-range hens for what Ms. Ploeger, 59, described as ''the best tasting eggs, bar none.'' Ms. Ambrose also jars honey, pickles vegetables, bakes cookies and runs their crafts shop.
 As president of the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce, Ms. Ploeger understands the struggles of small businesses. As much as she can, she said, she buys directly from the Ambroses and the Hudson Farmers' Market, where she patronizes different stands, including Scarecrow Farm's, every Saturday. 
 For Elizabeth Mayhew, a decorating expert and contributor to NBC's ''Today'' program, buying local is more important than buying organic all the time, which can be expensive, she said. On Saturday mornings Ms. Mayhew, 40, her daughter, Madeleine, 12, and son, Charlie, 9, typically make the rounds at the small but lively market in Millbrook, where they have a second home. Saying that ''grocery stores are where vegetables go to die,'' she added that she valued Sol Flower Farm produce, Herondale Farm grass-fed beef and pasture-raised pork, and Millbrook Farmhouse cheeses. ''I've come to rely on finding -- and supporting -- certain products there that my family loves,'' she said.
 Through farmers' markets some longtime growers have developed a prolific business. ''We make 75 to 80 percent of our sales at farmers' markets,'' said Ken Migliorelli, a Tivoli grower who sells to 40 markets a week throughout the New York metropolitan area as well as the Hudson Valley. Mr. Migliorelli and his father, Rocco, were among the original vendors at the Union Square green market in 1982 -- a move that saved the family's farm from bankruptcy. ''Our upstate operations are now a bigger part of our business,'' Mr. Migliorelli said. Because he grows 150 varieties of fruits and vegetables, Migliorelli Farm produce is frequently sought for new farmers' markets throughout the Hudson Valley. 
 Of course the quality of the produce is paramount. ''It's easier to support a community institution when it's good,'' said Eric Wallach, 62, an Upper East Side lawyer who views the Sunday farmers' market in Rhinebeck, where he and his wife Miriam, 60, weekend, as a great asset. Whether they buy from the bread stand, fruit grower or newly installed fishmonger, ''the quality of the food is very high,'' Ms. Wallach said. The couple, who frequently shop open-air markets in Provence, France, give their local market high marks. ''On a much smaller scale, Rhinebeck holds its own,'' Ms. Wallach said. 
 IF YOU GO
 DUTCHESS COUNTY
 Hyde Park Farmers' Market, Hyde Park Drive-In, Route 9, Hyde Park; (845) 229-9111. June-October, Saturdays, 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
 Rhinebeck Farmers' Market, Village of Rhinebeck Municipal Parking Lot, East Market Street, rhinebeckfarmersmarket.com. May-Nov. 22, Sundays, 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 
 Migliorelli Farm Stand, corner of Route 199 and River Road, east of the Kingston-Rhinecliff Bridge, Rhinebeck; (845) 876-1999. June-Nov. 26 (then weekends until December), daily, 9 a.m.-6 p.m. And Route 9, across from the Rhinebeck Savings Bank, Red Hook, (845) 758-3273. June-Oct. 31, daily, 9 a.m.-6 p.m. 
 Montgomery Place Orchards Farm Stand, near the intersection of Routes 9G and 199, Annandale-on-Hudson, (845) 758-6338. June-Nov. 26, Tuesdays-Sundays, 9 a.m.-6 p.m.; closed Mondays.
 Millbrook Farmers' Market, Front Street and Franklin Avenue, Village of Millbrook; (845) 677-4304, millbrookfarmersmarket.com. May-Oct. 31, Saturdays,9 a.m.-1 p.m. 
 Millerton Farmers' Market, side lawn of the Methodist Church, Dutchess Avenue, just off Main Street, Millerton; (518) 789-4259, neccmillerton.org/farmers.htm. May-Oct. 10, Saturdays 9 a.m.-1 p.m. 
 COLUMBIA COUNTY
 Scarecrow Farm, Old Barrington Road, off Route 23, east of the Yorkshire Farms Restaurant, Hollowville, (518) 851-9898.
 Hudson Farmers' Market, municipal parking lot at Sixth and Columbia Streets, Hudson; hudsonfarmersmarketny.com. May 9-Nov. 21, Saturdays, 9 a.m.-1 p.m.
 Hillsdale Farmers' Market, Town Park, Routes 22 and 23, on the ball field, Hillsdale; hillsdaleny.com/calendar.htm. July-October, every other Saturday, 9 a.m.-noon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BINS OF PLENTY: The Fino Farms stand of Milton, N.Y., at the Hyde Park Farmers' Market, where students from the nearby Culinary Institute of America sometimes give cooking demonstrations.
FLORA TOO: Sunflowers, right, from Fino Farms, at the Hyde Park Farmers' Market, held at the town's drive-in theater. Below, Andy Szymanowicz sells Sol Flower Farm produce at the Millbrook Farmers' Market.(C32)
BUMPER CROP: Below, Gino Iannucci at the Millbrook Farmers' Market. Near right, the Millbrook Farmers' Market
far right, fruit tarts by Kate J. Weiner at the Millbrook market. Bottom left, Katie Bogdanffy of Feather Ridge Farm at the Hyde Park Farmers' Market
 bottom right, the Hudson Farmers' Market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RAMIREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C33) MAP: Map details the markets of Hudson Valley, New York. (C33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



362 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words

BYLINE: By ROB COX and YOREE KOH

 BODY:
Rock 'n' Roll,
 Then and Now
 For most rockers and aging hippies, the 40th anniversary of Woodstock this weekend will be a happy occasion. They may recall love freely given, heads sporting muddy but flowing locks of hair and the electric notes of Jimi Hendrix's ''Star-Spangled Banner.'' But for the rock 'n' roll industry itself, the anniversary elicits more mixed sentiments.
 That's because the music business finds itself in an Alice in Wonderland version of reality that emerged long after the 1969 music festival. 
 The three-day concert, which attracted more than 350,000 people, was initially a financial disaster for its producers. Yet through the subsequent release of a live album and an Oscar-winning documentary, Woodstock's architects were eventually able to make a profit.
 Today, the economics of rock music are inverted. Yes, major labels like Warner Music, EMI, Sony and others still ply their trade by signing aspiring artists, persuading radio stations to play their tunes and then selling the music in stores or on the Web. But the spoils are increasingly accruing to those who handle the mechanics of concert tours and festivals.
 Consider the arithmetic of Woodstock. The event was organized by Woodstock Ventures, whose principals were Michael Lang, John Roberts, Joel Rosenman and Artie Kornfeld. For a ticket to all three days of the festival held on a farm in Bethel, N.Y., the promoters charged $18 in advance. When adjusted for inflation, that would be about $106 in today's dollars. 
 Now compare that with the price of admission to Bonnaroo, the jam-band festival held every June in Tennessee; or Coachella, the alternative music extravaganza that takes place in April near Palm Springs. Three-day passes cost $250 and $269 respectively. Moreover, both festivals attract rich sponsors like Budweiser, Heineken, AT&T, Whole Foods and others looking to reach a young and hip clientele. 
 Famously, few who attended Woodstock actually paid to get in -- a tenth of them, according to the event's promoters. And as many as 18,000 of those who did buy advance tickets later received refunds because they had been unable to reach the concert grounds on Max Yasgur's farm after the roads leading there were closed to traffic. With festival costs of $3.4 million -- including Mr. Hendrix's relatively modest $18,000 fee -- Woodstock Ventures was in debt to the tune of $1.6 million after all the litter was removed from the farm. 
 And here's where the entertainment industry, then entering its heyday, swooped in for the kill. Warner Brothers received exclusive distribution rights to the documentary Michael Wadleigh shot for about $100,000. In exchange for the rights, the concert's promoters took a $1 million flat fee, plus a small percentage of the back end. Within a decade, the film took in more than $50 million in box office receipts, of which Warner Brothers earned $16.4 million. 
 And then there was Woodstock, the album. A year after the festival, Atlantic Records, now a subsidiary of Warner Music, released a $14.98 three-record compilation, which sold more than two million copies that year and topped Billboard's pop album chart. A sequel released the next year instantly went platinum. 
 Concertgoers no longer clamor for slickly produced documentations of their musical experiences. Why would they, when they can record concerts on their phones or their hand-held Flip video cameras? They're all bootleggers now. 
 And even those who would rather enjoy a concert outside the lens of their cellphone can view free versions of many events on YouTube. 
 All of this has conspired to push more of the financial pie to the concert itself, a fact not lost on the recorded music industry. That helps explain why Warner Music, for example, has been acquiring stakes in companies like Peppermintblue Entertainment of Australia, which offer a wider array of services to artists than those traditionally provided by record labels. 
 It is also the reason Ticketmaster and Live Nation are trying to merge and create a vertically integrated concert promoter, ticketing service and artist management group. Of course, with economics gravitating to these parts of the music business, it is also why legislators, music industry rivals and even artists like Bruce Springsteen oppose the deal. 
 So much for peace, love and rock 'n' roll. 
 ROB COX and YOREE KOH 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jimi Hendrix performing at the three-day Woodstock music festival held in Bethel, N.Y., in August 1969.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY C. MORRIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (93%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); RECORD INDUSTRY (76%); EVENT MARKETING (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); MUSIC GENRES (74%); RECORD RELEASES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); TICKET SALES (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



363 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Yanks Fans Could Find Postseason Very Costly

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
With the best record in baseball, the Yankees look destined to qualify for the playoffs and perhaps reach the World Series for the first time since 2003.
 That has some Yankee fans quaking in their seats.
 After raising ticket prices for nonpremium seats by 86 percent this season, the Yankees will soon announce prices for their playoff tickets. If history is any guide, fans could end up paying 50 percent more than what they paid for regular-season tickets if the Yankees make it deep into October.
 Yankee fans, hungry for the postseason after missing out last year, may be begrudgingly preparing to pay what it takes. 
 ''I don't think they will raise prices too much because of the backlash they got on the regular- season tickets,'' said Michael Bahn, a season-ticket holder since 2003. ''The problem is, for the playoffs, they have you over a barrel and you really want to go.''
 The Yankees, though, can raise prices only so high. Each summer, Major League Baseball sets a suggested ceiling for ticket prices for the first two rounds of the playoffs. The teams, which are now sending the league their proposed prices, can ask to set prices even higher. 
 And while Major League Baseball itself sets prices for most tickets in the World Series, teams retain complete control over the price of their premium seats and suites throughout the postseason. So what the Yankees might ultimately charge in October for their famously priced premium seats that now go for $2,500 and $1,250 a game remains to be seen.
 In fact, the new Yankee Stadium, with its multitude of pricing tiers and premium seating compared with the old Stadium, could provide extra logistical challenges in October.
 To keep things simple, clubs normally lump sections that might be priced differently during the season -- like an infield box seat and an outfield box seat -- into broad categories in October. And the postseason prices of more expensive tickets tend to rise at a slower rate than the prices of cheaper seats.
 For example, a field-level seat in Philadelphia that cost $44 during the regular season last year rose to $70 during the division series, a 59 percent increase. An outfield seat that cost $24 during the season jumped 66 percent, to $40, in the first round.
 In Boston, field-box seats that went for $125 during the regular season cost just $5 more for the first round of the playoffs. Seats on the Green Monster remained at $160. Outfield grandstand seats, though, were $55, $25 more than in the regular season.
 Bob DuPuy, baseball's president and chief operating officer, said that given the weak economy, playoff tickets may not be dramatically more expensive this year.
 ''The information we've gotten back to date has suggested that they'll be closer to the regular-season prices this year,'' said DuPuy, who added that World Series ticket prices would probably be unchanged from last year, when the field-level seats in Philadelphia cost $225 each.
 DuPuy said the price of World Series tickets are based partly on the price of regular-season tickets in each stadium and partly on other equivalent events, like the Super Bowl and Broadway plays.
 ''I'm not sneezing at the fact that $225 is a lot of money compared to a lot of other tickets,'' he said.
 DuPuy declined to speculate on what the Yankees' tickets will cost. In 2008, the Yankees were going to increase prices by roughly the same amount as other teams had they made it to the postseason.
 A $95 field-box seat during the first round would have cost 19 percent more than the $80 price during the regular season. If the Yankees had made the A.L.C.S., tickets would have cost $125, 56 percent more than during the regular season. If the Yankees had made the World Series, field box seats would have cost $250 each, more than triple their regular-season price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



364 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Little Sign of Recovery for Retailers as Earnings and Sales Remain Weak

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM and JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Several recent indicators have raised the prospect that the recession might be ending. But American consumers do not seem to be getting the word.
 Retail spending is still far below that of a year ago in virtually every category, as figures reported Thursday showed. Major clothing chains including Macy's, Nordstrom, Liz Claiborne and Kohl's posted earnings declines this week. Even Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer and one of the hardiest survivors of this recession, reported lower sales on Thursday.
 Taken together, the reports made clear that consumers were likely to continue hoarding their dollars into the usually robust back-to-school shopping season, a crucial time for retailers. 
 The Commerce Department said Thursday that retail sales fell by a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent in July from a month earlier, far below the 0.7 percent increase economists were expecting. Comparing this July to the same month a year ago, retail sales were down 8.3 percent. Stark as that drop sounds, it is actually a slight improvement from recent months, when sales were down 9 percent or more compared to the same month a year ago. 
 ''This is only a little piece of what is a huge seismic shift -- a return to savings by American consumers and a shift away from spending,'' said Allen Sinai, president of Decision Economics. ''Without the consumer, the economy will not have any kind of a typical recovery, and will grow very, very slowly for a long time.''
 Last month, consumers spent less on furniture, electronics, appliances, books and music, suggesting that they remained wary because of the weak job market. Indeed, Wal-Mart said its shopper surveys were showing exactly that.
 ''More people are concerned about unemployment,'' Eduardo Castro-Wright, head of Wal-Mart's United States operations, told investors on Thursday in an earnings call. 
 Craig R. Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retailing consulting firm, estimated that discretionary spending had fallen to approximately 2005 levels. ''You hate to go into these stores where the clerks outnumber the customers, and unfortunately that's what we're seeing,'' he said.
 The robust retailing categories continued to be essentials, like food, and basic items, like bed sheets and cookware. 
 Some 20 months into the recession, millions of consumers are saving money aggressively as they try to shore up their depleted finances and make up some of the wealth they have lost as their home values declined and their stock portfolios dwindled. Economists say high unemployment and stagnant wage growth are likely to keep consumers tethered in the months ahead, even if other corners of the economy begin to recover.
 ''We're really not through the woods yet,'' said Julia Coronado, senior United States economist at BNP Paribas. ''The consumer is still very conservative and really isn't getting out there and spending.''
 Kohl's and Wal-Mart, two of the nation's strongest chains, saw upticks in customer traffic in the second quarter and gained market share as weaker retailers shuttered stores or disappeared altogether. And both companies raised their earnings projections. Yet on Thursday they sounded notes of caution.
 ''In the backdrop, always in the backdrop, is a weak consumer,'' Kevin Mansell, president and chief executive of Kohl's, told investors in a conference call. 
 For the three months ended Aug. 1, Kohl's earned a profit of $229 million, or 75 cents a share, in contrast to $236 million, or 77 cents a share, a year ago. Sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health, fell 2.3 percent.
 ''What we hope is that at some point things will turn more positive,'' Mr. Mansell said in a telephone interview. ''Right now they're turning less bad.'' 
 Wal-Mart reported a second-quarter profit that was essentially the same as last year: $3.44 billion, or 88 cents a share, compared to a profit of $3.45 billion, or 87 cents a share, a year ago. For the quarter, sales at United States stores open at least a year fell 1.2 percent, in contrast to a 4.3 percent increase last year. 
 Matthew F. Katz, a managing director in the retailing practice of AlixPartners, a reorganization firm, said the sales decline at the behemoth discount retailer showed how consumers of all strata ''have reset their disposable income and spending levels.'' 
 One bright spot in Thursday's government report was automobile sales.
 Consumers spent 2.4 percent more on motor vehicles and automotive parts last month compared with June as the government's popular ''cash for clunkers'' car purchase program got under way. Yet money that flowed into the pockets of car dealers seemed to come at the expense of other businesses. 
 Retail spending excluding sales of cars and car parts fell 0.6 percent.
 Industry professionals expect consumer spending, which accounts for around 70 percent of the United States economy, to be weak for the rest of the year, maybe longer. That does not bode well for the all-important back-to-school and Christmas shopping seasons, when many retailers do much of their annual business.
 ''Some 65 percent of Americans plan to modify spending beyond just this year,'' Mr. Katz said, adding that the new consumer mindset ''will have a prolonged and dramatic impact on the retail environment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Kohl's store in Springfield, Ill. Spending continues to be focused on essentials like food.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); MARKETING SURVEYS (58%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); BNP PARIBAS SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (73%); BNP (PAR) (50%); BNP (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



365 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (CBS) NEIL DIAMOND -- HOT AUGUST NIGHT: NYC Mr. Diamond, above, celebrates the release of his latest album with performances of hits like ''America,'' ''Cracklin' Rosie'' and ''I Am ... I Said'' in this special culled from four concerts last August at Madison Square Garden. He also reminisces about filming his first show in his hometown, New York City.
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAYQuentin Tarantino talks about his coming film, ''Inglourious Basterds''; Flo Rida performs. The morning's topics are fall fashion and walking in heels. 
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLYStanley Tucci and Candy Spelling are guests.
 8 P.M. (VH1) LORDS OF THE REVOLUTION The flashback concludes with a look at the artistry of Andy Warhol, who would have turned 81 on Aug. 6.
 8 P.M. (Fox) MENTAL This two-hour season finale begins as a factory worker is admitted to the hospital with severed fingers but refuses to have them reattached. Elsewhere Jack (Chris Vance) argues about how to treat his sister's schizophrenia with his parents, who have power of attorney over her affairs. At 9 a man (Joseph D. Reitman) claims to be a werewolf and takes staff members hostage to prove his point. 
 8:30 P.M. (13, 49) NOW ON PBSThe series investigates the impact of job loss on health insurance and travels to Nevada, where an enormous budget deficit, unemployment and Medicaid cuts have forced the only public hospital in Las Vegas to shut its doors to cancer patients and pregnant women. Dr. Howard Dean, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, offers insight. In ''Bill Moyers Journal,'' at 9, David Frum, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, the editor of NewMajority.com and a former special assistant to President George W. Bush, talks about the need for Republicans to come up with a plan for health-care reform that conservatives can support. The media analyst Kathleen Hall Jamieson and Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, discuss whether the messages in health-care advertisements reflect the real issues.
 9 P.M. (BBC America) FRIDAY NIGHT WITH JONATHAN ROSS The guest list includes Clive Owen, Emily Blunt, David Attenborough and U2.
 9 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS Capt. Paul Watson orders his Sea Shepherd crew to prepare for battle after the Japanese fleet pulls a dead whale onto the Nisshin Maru.
 9 P.M. (USA) MONK Monk (Tony Shalhoub, near right, with Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje) finds common ground with an African widower (Mr. Akinnuoye-Agbaje) who is investigating his wife's death. He also snoops around a high-profile case in which a maid is murdered.
 9 P.M. (VH1) WOODSTOCK: NOW & THEN In this joint production from VH1 and History, the Academy Award-winning director Barbara Kopple dissects the frenzy surrounding the festival 40 years ago and speculates on its lingering fascination. The documentary will be shown on History on Monday at 8.
 10 P.M. (Food Network) CHEFS VS. CITY Aaron Sanchez and Chris Cosentino challenge Stephen Hopcraft and Santanna Salas of Seablue at the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas to cull the city for its wickedest foodie delights.
 10 P.M. (USA) PSYCH Shawn (James Roday) and Gus (Dule Hill) come upon a freshly wrecked plane and a dying billionaire, who utters something about having been murdered.
 10 P.M. (TLC) GOWN CRAZY Attention, beauty queens and prom princesses! Johnathan Kayne Gillaspie, left, the zany Oklahoman who finished in the Top 5 of the third season of ''Project Runway,'' tries to realize his dream of becoming the go-to guy for pageant wear. 
 10:30 P.M. (E!) COMEDIANS OF CHELSEA LATELYChelsea Handler riffs with some of her favorite comedians, including her sidekick, Chuy Bravo, and Heather McDonald, Chris Franjola, Loni Love, the Sklar Brothers, Jen Kirkman, John Caparulo, Whitney Cummings, Guy Branum, Sarah Colonna, Brad Wollack, Josh Wolf and Jo Koy, at Club Nokia in Los Angeles.
 11 P.M. (Showtime) ANGELO TSAROUCHAS: BIGGER IS BETTER Mr. Tsarouchas spins tales of growing up Greek. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (83%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); DISMISSALS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (66%); POWER OF ATTORNEY (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); BUDGETS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); CANCER (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



366 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: A Leading Publisher Announces a Plan to Rent Textbooks to College Students

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
In the rapidly evolving college textbook market, one of the nation's largest textbook publishers, Cengage Learning, announced Thursday that it would start renting books to students this year, at 40 percent to 70 percent of the sale price.
 Students who choose Cengage's rental option will get immediate access to the first chapter of the book electronically, in e-book format, and will have a choice of shipping options for the printed book. When the rental term -- 60, 90 or 130 days -- is over, students can either return the textbook or buy it. 
 With the growing competition from online used-book sales, digital texts and new Internet textbook-rental businesses like Chegg and BookRenter, other publishers and college bookstores are also edging toward rentals. 
 Follett Higher Education Group, which manages more than 850 college bookstores, is starting a pilot rental program this fall at about a dozen stores, including those at the State University at Buffalo, Grand Rapids Community College in Michigan, and California State University at Sacramento. The stores will offer about 20 percent of their titles for rent, charging 42.5 percent of the purchase price.
 With college textbooks often costing more than $100 apiece, students spend an average of $700 to $1,100 a year, representing one of their biggest expenses after tuition and room and board. Many students try to save by buying used books or ordering books from overseas, where they can often cost half the domestic price. Many students also resell textbooks at the end of the academic year, feeding the used-book market.
 Besides giving students a new option, rentals give both publishers and textbook authors a way to continue earning money from their books after the first sale, something they do not get from the sale of used textbooks. 
 ''Our authors will get royalties on second and third rentals, just as they would on a first sale,'' said Ronald G. Dunn, president and chief executive of Cengage, formerly Thomson Learning. ''There's a tremendous amount of activity around rentals now, but we're the first higher-education publisher to move in this direction.'' 
 Cengage's rental business will begin with several hundred titles this year, and then expand, Mr. Dunn said. 
 ''The Internet has really changed everything in terms of our abilities to reach customers in different ways,'' he said. ''Our strategy has been to offer as many choices as we can, in terms of price points and different kinds of products. So if they choose not to buy the printed book, they can rent it, just as we already offer them the choice to buy an e-book, or a chapter.'' 
 McGraw-Hill is taking a different route into rentals, through a partnership with Chegg, a fast-growing online textbook-rental business. Under an agreement that is to be announced soon, McGraw-Hill will supply 25 of its books to Chegg, in return for a portion of the rental revenue. 
 Ed Stanford, the president of McGraw-Hill Higher Education, would not disclose what share of each Chegg rental his company would get. 
 ''It's an opportunity to explore a different model that we think has some real promise,'' Mr. Stanford said. ''We're not a retailer of our textbooks, so we're not trying to play the retail role. But we are also talking to large college bookstores who are interested in rentals as an option. It's of great interest to us as a way that we could begin to share the revenues after the first sale.'' 
 A few college bookstores have been offering rentals for years, and many more are moving in that direction. 
 ''There's a changing climate in the industry, with all the pressures on the costs of higher education,'' said Elio Distaola, of Follett. ''The reason we're doing the rental pilot is just to see the viability of the program.'' 
 Barnes & Noble College Booksellers, too, is starting a pilot rental program at three of its 624 college bookstores this fall. 
 ''I think it could very well end up being a standard offering,'' said Patrick Maloney, the executive vice president. ''We're renting books at 35 percent of the list price, and it's only for hardcover texts, because paperbacks would get beaten up too fast. The schools assist us with collecting the books at the end, as they do with library books. The other option, taking the student's credit card and billing it if the book wasn't returned, didn't seem very user-friendly.'' 
 Mr. Maloney said the rental program would have been offered at more colleges and universities, if more faculty members had been willing to commit to using the same textbook for at least two years. 
 ''We had a lot of discussions with schools, but in one case, they wanted to get 10 faculty members to sign on, and they couldn't get any,'' Mr. Maloney said.
 Since a federal report four years ago found that textbook prices nearly tripled from 1986 to 2004 -- rising an average of 6 percent a year, twice the inflation rate -- Congress and state legislators have been working to contain textbook costs. 
 The Higher Education Opportunity Act, passed last year, included $10 million for grants to support textbook rental pilot programs; according to Charles Schmidt of the National Association of College Stores, more than 20 college bookstores have applied for grants. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emma Hill helped her brother Tim go through books at the Grand Rapids college bookstore.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATY BATDORFF/GRAND RAPIDS PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (93%); PUBLISHING (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: CENGAGE LEARNING INC (85%); FOLLETT HIGHER EDUCATION GROUP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (87%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



367 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Europe Comes Roaring Back

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European economy bounced back with unexpected strength in the second quarter, buoying hopes that a worldwide recession was drawing to a close.
 The sharp improvement from the first quarter underscored just how far Europe and indeed the global economy had come since a harrowing free fall in late 2008. Underlying the strong reading were solid performances in France and Germany, each of whose economies grew slightly in the second quarter, according to government data released Thursday.
 Though very dependent on government spending, Asia has shown sharp improvement recently. Some leading forecasters expect growth of up to 9 percent in China this year and more than 10 percent next year. Meanwhile, the brutal contraction early this year in the United States has eased, with signs pointing to modest growth in the second half. 
 The economy of the 27-country European Union shrank 0.3 percent in the three months ended June 30, for an annual rate of roughly 1.2 percent. The 16 countries that use the euro registered a 0.1 percent decline for the second quarter, or an annual rate of roughly 0.4 percent.
 Despite being in negative territory, the European data looked much better than in the first quarter of this year, when both the European Union and the euro zone contracted 2.5 percent from the last three months of 2008.
 The significant easing of the recession put Europe roughly on a par with the United States, where the economy shrank at an annual pace of 1 percent during the second quarter. Economists said Europe got some help from government programs, like premiums being paid to scrap old cars for new cars -- their own ''cash for clunkers'' programs -- as well as greater demand for exports in China.
 But most of all, the performance represented the ebbing of a financial shock that rippled through economies worldwide after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 and the subsequent chaos in financial markets, economists said.
 Europe still faces the possibility that its recovery could slow or even stall in early 2010 because of lagging efforts to repair its banking system and sharply rising unemployment. Nonetheless, the sunnier picture in Europe, particularly in Germany and France, has given the region a leg up sooner than most economists expected.
 Because of its sharply different recipe for combating the recession, Europe is likely to have slower growth than the United States by 2010, economists predict.
 By next year, the lion's share of an $800 billion spending program in the United States will kick in, dwarfing the outlays in Europe, which resisted such approaches out of fear of becoming heavily mired in debt. About $100 billion in tax rebates gave the United States a boost toward to recovery in the last few months.
 ''We will really see the difference in recoveries next year,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist for Deutsche Bank. ''That will be when the U.S. bounces back more quickly than Europe.''
 Underlying the strong reading were solid performances in France and Germany, each of which grew 0.3 percent in the second quarter, government data showed. Germany's economy, the largest in Europe, will still probably contract about 6 percent for the full year, economists say.
 Within the euro area, France and Germany are helping balance out much weaker performances in Italy, a perpetual laggard, and Spain, where a collapsing housing market has brought an acute recession.
 Eastern Europe, particularly Hungary and the Baltic countries, remains deeply troubled. And the once-mighty British economy still faces a steep rise in unemployment, though it, too, could return to modest growth in the third quarter, economists said.
 The new figures for Germany come after four consecutive quarters of contracting output, implying that the country's recession, its worst since World War II, has ended.
 The surprise expansion in Germany -- most economists had expected a flat or slightly negative reading -- reflects gains for the country's exporters from growth in Asia and what may be a bottoming of the downturn in the United States. Industrial production has also received a fillip from programs that give auto buyers a 2,500 euro ($3,541) bonus if they swap older cars for newer, environmentally friendly models.
 ''Stimulus is working a bit, but there is also a rebound because of global trade,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs in London.
 But other developments are weighing on the European outlook, creating uncertainty about how the economy will shape up in 2010. News last week that German exports had leapt 7 percent in June over the previous month foreshadowed the positive reading on gross domestic product.
 But that masked an overall collapse of orders from abroad; German exports in June were down 22 percent from the period a year earlier.
 And unemployment is expected to rise sharply this year as government programs that kept people on private payrolls throughout Europe begin to expire.
 Already, the euro area's unemployment rate stands at 9.4 percent, its highest level in 10 years, and the anemic growth of the coming quarters will not be enough to arrest the slide. That, in turn, could drag down consumer confidence or even generate political backlash in Europe, economists said.
 ''Growth is not going to get where it needs to be to the point where companies do not have to fire their surplus workers,'' said Julian Callow, the chief European economist at Barclays Capital.
 Neither can Germany depend on fiscal stimulus to kick-start domestic demand.
 The government of Chancellor Angela Merkel, skeptical of greater spending and inclined to blame the United States for the crisis, approved two small stimulus packages, worth about 73 billion euros, late last year and in early 2009. France also carried out several modest spending plans.
 The financial system is another cloud on the horizon, though it may be healing more rapidly than expected.
 The International Monetary Fund has criticized Europe for not moving quickly enough to recapitalize banks and clear balance sheets of bad assets. But the European Central Bank is projecting lower losses in Europe than the I.M.F., and it has published data suggesting that credit flows are easing.
 ''We have to worry about tighter credit less than we thought we did earlier in the year,'' Mr. Callow said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at the Schmiedeberg Foundry in Germany. The country helped lead Europe to a surprisingly robust second quarter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHIAS RIETSCHEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B6) CHART: Green Shoots: The two largest economies of the 16-country euro zone, Germany and France, grew in the second quarter after falling for four quarters.(Source: Eurostat) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EURO (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (69%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); CHINA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



368 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: China and the W.T.O.

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization's ruling against China's stranglehold on the distribution of imported books, movies and songs may not unleash a torrent of new business for American entertainment industries, but it comes at exactly the right time for the world economy. 
 It should serve as a warning to the Chinese government to restrain its growing economic nationalism, which poses a serious threat to international trade and the chances of a global recovery.
 Hollywood studios and other media companies currently must deal exclusively with government-run distributors. If the decision by the W.T.O. panel stands -- China has the right to appeal -- American and other foreign companies should be able to seek better, more lucrative distribution deals. Apple, which owns iTunes, and other companies should be able to sell music over the Internet. But other restrictions remain -- only 20 foreign movies can be shown in Chinese theaters each year. 
 In the midst of the global recession, China has taken increasingly unfair steps to protect its industries. It has given tax rebates to exporters and barred government entities from buying foreign goods if there are domestic substitutes. It has again intervened heavily in currency markets to halt the rise of the renminbi. 
 The W.T.O. has ruled several times against China in recent years. By Sept. 1, China must comply with a W.T.O. ruling in a case brought by the United States against illicit taxes on imported auto parts. By March, it must comply with another ruling on a case brought by the United States about its lax enforcement of counterfeiting laws. 
 China has also increasingly turned to the W.T.O. to defend its interests. Last month, it challenged an American ban on Chinese poultry imports. It has another case against American anti-dumping policy. And there will be more. China has as big a stake as the United States in a well-functioning, lawful trading system. If it wants to protect its own rights, it will accept the W.T.O.'s rulings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); POULTRY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX RELIEF (67%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



369 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Invigorated by Clunker Cash, Ford Moves to Increase Output

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
The government's cash-for-clunkers program has been so popular with consumers that one automaker, the Ford Motor Company, will increase production to meet the higher demand.
 Ford said on Thursday that it would add 10,000 vehicles to its production schedule in the third quarter and significantly increase its fourth-quarter output as well. The company now plans to make 570,000 vehicles in its North American plants during the last three months of the year.
 That would amount to a 33 percent increase compared with production in the period a year earlier, and 15 percent more than Ford had planned before the clunkers program began in late July. 
 ''Under the cash-for-clunkers program, the Ford Escape and Focus are flying off dealer lots,'' said Mark Fields, who oversees Ford's operations in the Americas, ''and we're doing all we can to ensure our dealers are well stocked with fuel-efficient vehicles that customers really want.''
 Ford's move is the latest indication of the boost that the clunkers program has given to the new car market, which has been mired in its worst slump in 25 years.
 ''The pace of sales is extremely fast,'' said George Pipas, Ford's chief market analyst. ''Retail sales are eye-popping compared to a year ago.''
 The Obama administration's clunkers program gives consumers up to $4,500 toward trade-ins of older gas guzzlers for newer, more fuel-efficient models.
 The government's original $1 billion allocation for the program was exhausted in a week, as dealers submitted 245,000 transactions to federal officials for approval.
 Most large car companies benefited immediately from the program. In July, industry sales fell just 12 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 32 percent decline for the year to date.
 And since $2 billion was added to the program last week, the rush to take advantage of it has continued.
 About $300 million of the $2 billion has already been used, and the funds are drying up quickly, Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, a Ford economist, said.
 ''The appetite is there,'' Ms. Hughes-Cromwick said. ''This thing could pretty much expire in the next three or four weeks.''
 While Ford is the only auto company to announce a production increase because of the clunkers program, both General Motors and Chrysler are considering similar moves.
 G.M. executives said this week that the company might increase production in the fourth quarter. Suppliers to G.M. have been told to expect an increase of at least 50,000 vehicles.
 Car companies are starting to run short of some models that have been the best sellers as a result of the program. Toyota, for example, said it had less than a two-week inventory for its Prius gas-electric hybrid. 
 Ford said it had an inventory of vehicles that would last about 48 days -- a major decline from the 80-day supply it reported earlier this year.
 The company is planning to add shifts and increase overtime at plants in Michigan and Missouri to raise supplies of the Escape sport utility vehicle and the Focus compact car, two of its most fuel-efficient models.
 Ford, the only American automaker to have avoided a bankruptcy filing, has generated impressive momentum in the market since the clunkers program started.
 The company posted a rare 2 percent increase in sales in the United States in July from a year earlier. It was Ford's first year-over-year increase since 2007, according to company executives.
 One analyst said that Ford's improving sales gave another indication that consumers were gravitating to its showrooms at the expense of G.M. and Chrysler, both of which were bailed out by the government this year.
 ''It has become increasingly apparent that consumers are viewing Ford in a different light than its troubled cross-town rivals, which along with strong product, should continue to drive sales for the company,'' John Murphy, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, wrote in a research note to clients.
 Ford said that its share of the cars sold under the clunkers program was about 16 percent. By contrast, the company's retail share of the United States market is 13 percent, Mr. Pipas said.
 Most of the vehicles being bought with clunker cash are smaller sedans and crossover vehicles that rank high in fuel economy.
 Besides the Escape and the Focus, the top sellers in the first phase of the program were the Honda Civic, Jeep Patriot and Toyota Corolla.
 Ms. Hughes-Cromwick of Ford said that, based on current clunker trade-ins, participants would save more than $800 a year on gasoline bills.
 She also estimated that 30 percent to 40 percent of the people taking advantage of the program would not have purchased a new vehicle so soon without the clunker cash.
 ''Whether it's pent-up demand or not,'' she said, ''the numbers of this program have really been a blockbuster.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers assembling a Ford Focus. The company said it planned to build 570,000 vehicles in its North American plants during the last three months of the year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RETAIL SALES (70%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



370 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 943 words

PERSON: Margaret Wilson 

HEADLINE: Margaret Wilson, First Black Woman To Head N.A.A.C.P. Board, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Margaret Bush Wilson, who became the first black woman to head the board of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, then was ousted in a bitter power struggle in 1983, died on Tuesday in St. Louis. She was 90.
 The N.A.A.C.P. announced her death. 
 Mrs. Wilson came from a prominent middle-class black family deeply committed to civil rights and the N.A.A.C.P. and once said she was ''born and raised'' in the organization. She was the first woman to be president of the 6,000-member branch of the N.A.A.C.P. in her native St. Louis and became chairwoman of the national group in 1975, holding the post for nine years.
 The first woman to hold the position was Mary White Ovington, a white woman and a founder, who led the group from 1917 to 1932.
 She strove to improve management, stabilize finances, recruit youths and address tough issues, from affirmative action to energy policy. In 1978, she said the N.A.A.C.P. would not celebrate July 4 until blacks were truly free.
 A particularly thorny issue during her tenure was the long-simmering name dispute between the N.A.A.C.P. and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. The defense fund split from the N.A.A.C.P. in 1957, but kept the NAACP name. The former parent wanted to end the confusion or somehow reunite the groups.
 Under the aggressive leadership of Mrs. Wilson, the original N.A.A.C.P. sued and won, then lost on appeal.
 Then, in 1983, Mrs. Wilson abruptly fired the N.A.A.C.P.'s executive director, Benjamin L. Hooks, whom she accused of mismanagement. The board, which she had not consulted, quickly rehired him and dismissed her.
 In an interview with The Washington Post, Mrs. Wilson said she was a victim of discrimination.
 ''We have all had our moments of truth about sexism, about male chauvinism, and about disrespect and disregard for women as equals,'' she said. 
 ''What has happened to me,'' she said, ''has been my moment of truth.''
 Margaret Berenice Bush was born in St. Louis on Jan. 30, 1919. Her father was one of the first successful black real estate brokers in St. Louis and organized black realtors to win a legal battle that ended covenants restricting sales to members of minorities, a case that went to the Supreme Court. Her mother, a teacher, was on the executive committee of the local branch of the N.A.A.C.P.
 Mrs. Wilson earned a degree in economics and mathematics, cum laude, from Talladega College in Alabama. Her father wanted her to pursue nursing or teaching, but she was intent on being a lawyer.
 In 1943, she earned a law degree from the Lincoln University School of Law, which Missouri established after the Supreme Court ordered it to admit blacks or give them an equal education to that of whites without sending them out of state. One of her first cases after being admitted to the bar was helping her father on the landmark real estate discrimination case, which the United States Supreme Court decided in 1948. 
 In 1944, she married Robert Edmund Wilson Jr., a fellow law student. They divorced in 1968. Mrs. Wilson is survived by a son, a sister and two grandchildren.
 She was a lawyer for the Rural Electrification Administration, then entered a law partnership with her husband, which lasted until 1965. From 1972 on, she practiced law in St. Louis on her own.
 In 1948, she was the first black woman in Missouri to run for Congress, running on the ticket of the Progressive Party of Henry A. Wallace. She then held paid and unpaid posts in governmental and nonprofit groups, including a local leadership role in the war on poverty.
 In 1956, she helped the N.A.A.C.P. press businesses to hire blacks, and within two years was leading the organization's St. Louis branch. In 1962, she was elected president of the Missouri state conference of N.A.A.C.P. branches. The next year, she was elected to the N.A.A.C.P.'s national board.
 In 1973, she was named permanent chairwoman of the N.A.A.C.P.'s national convention, and that year and the next was chief parliamentarian. In 1974, she headed the committee that demanded that President Richard M. Nixon be impeached.
 After the death of Stephen G. Spottswood, board chairman since 1961, she emerged as one of four candidates for the job, and won it in January 1975. 
 In January 1977, Mr. Hooks became executive director, a paid position that has traditionally been more visible than that of the unpaid chairman. Various articles suggested that Mrs. Wilson had hoped to be chosen for the director's job. The board had assumed more power as the health of Roy Wilkins, Mr. Hooks's predecessor, deteriorated, so as chairwoman, Mrs. Wilson exercised more power than most board leaders.
 A confrontation occurred six months after Mr. Hooks arrived. The board retreated from its previous opposition to the deregulation of natural gas, with Mrs. Wilson calling for an alliance among ''big government, big minority and big oil.''
 Mr. Hooks, who opposed decontrol, was dismayed, as were the labor unions, traditional N.A.A.C.P. allies.
 Mrs. Wilson, who practiced law until this June, did not mind backing unpopular positions. At hearings of the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1991, she defended Clarence Thomas, a friend, who was shunned by many blacks for his conservative views. She predicted he would ''become one of the great justices in our history.''
 Last year, as a former trustee of Washington University in St. Louis, Mrs. Wilson awarded an honorary degree to Phyllis Schlafly, the conservative writer and activist, even though she disagreed with Ms. Schlafly on many issues.
 ''As far as I was concerned,'' Mrs. Wilson said, ''this was about free speech.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Margaret Bush Wilson (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN ELSHOUT/ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS, 2001) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WOMEN (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); FAMILY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); APPEALS (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (69%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (66%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); NAACP LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



371 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: La Goulue Is Finally, Really, Actually Closing (for Now)

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
La Goulue, the Upper East Side brasserie that has been a mirrored playground for the well connected and the comfortably ZIP-coded, will close on Aug. 26, and its classic fin de siecle Parisian decor will be dismantled and stored until a new location can be found. 
 ''We must vacate because our landlords are building extra floors on the top of the building,'' said Jean Denoyer, who owns the restaurant with his cousin Regis Marinier. Already, scaffolding has swathed the building, at 746 Madison Avenue near East 65th Street, and some other tenants have moved.
 One of the owners of the building, William Friedland, said, ''I have no comment on La Goulue.'' 
 Rumors of the restaurant's demise surfaced nearly a year before its 15-year lease expired in June 2008, and a series of 90-day lease extensions -- and subsequent rumored-closing alerts -- ensued. 
 ''There is no question of us staying now, because of the construction,'' Mr. Denoyer, 67, said. ''We have to dismantle it carefully, and every panel will be systematically numbered and protected.''
 He added, ''The rumors that it was closing hurt our business, and the scaffolding in front of the restaurant recently has not helped, but we have been able to maintain a decent business nevertheless.''
 After it opened, in 1972, the restaurant became a fixture on Madison Avenue, dispensing its poulet de ferme roti and steak au poivre avec pommes frites on 70th Street until it moved to its current site 16 years ago, Mr. Denoyer said. 
 Something of a Gold Coast society clubhouse, the restaurant has long been the realm of the social X-ray, the titled striver and the doubly-and-even-triply-cheeked air kiss, as well as a stalwart backdrop location for episodes of ''Sex and the City'' and ''Law and Order'' and the film ''Fatal Attraction.''
 In its giddy youth, La Goulue cosseted Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Catherine Deneuve, and, more recently, has attracted an assortment of the usual suspects, including Giorgio Armani, Kim Cattrall, Ashley Judd, Diane Lane, Jude Law, Annette and Oscar de la Renta, Rene Russo, Bruce Springsteen, Stanley Tucci and Sigourney Weaver.
 ''We are aggressively looking for a new spot within three or four blocks of La Goulue,'' Mr. Denoyer said, adding that the search has been hard because ''some landlords have been utterly spoiled in the last decade, and they don't want to acknowledge that there is a recession.''
 Mr. Denoyer said he hoped customers would find solace, after La Goulue closes, in some of the other Manhattan restaurants in which he is a partner, including Orsay, Brasserie Ruhlmann and Le Colonial. 
 There will be no goodbye party at La Goulue. ''This is not a happy occasion for us,'' Mr. Denoyer said.
 ''But we will recreate a new space. We've done it once. And we can do it again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of the owners of La Goulue said the restaurant was moving because of construction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



372 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: A Scoundrel in the Land of the Lax

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE 
 The Rise and Fall of Bernie Madoff 
 By Erin Arvedlund 
 Illustrated. 310 pages. Portfolio. $25.95. 
 BETRAYAL 
 The Life and Lies of Bernie Madoff 
 By Andrew Kirtzman 
 307 pages. Harper. $25.99. 
 Bernard L. Madoff was not just the world's biggest thief, who decimated the savings of thousands and wrecked countless lives, but he also became the hated embodiment of a gilded era that crashed and burned in 2008. He was a liar and a cheat who flourished in a bubble economy where people got used to living beyond their means; where cheap credit fueled pie-in-the-sky, get-rich-quick dreams; and where both the wealthy and not-so-wealthy bought into schemes that defied gravity and logic. 
 As the investigative reporter Erin Arvedlund observes in her new book, ''Too Good to Be True,'' Mr. Madoff ''personified all that was false, all that appeared to be upside down in the world'' at a time when it was suddenly revealed that ''homes weren't worth what was once thought, stock prices stopped going up, all assets seemed to collapse in value at the same time.'' 
 Or, as the journalist Andrew Kirtzman observes in his new book, ''Betrayal'': Mr. Madoff was both ''a proxy'' for the sins of ''financial institutions whose irresponsibility almost brought down the economy,'' and a ''frightening example of nobody asking questions when the going was good,'' of a society in which few ''questioned the sanity of subprime mortgage derivatives'' or the odds of endlessly rising house prices, and in which government regulators were too hapless or lax to put the brakes on abuses and outright deceit.
 The outlines of the Madoff story, of course, will be familiar to most readers, and both these books draw heavily on earlier reporting that has appeared in publications like The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Vanity Fair, New York magazine and Fortune and in a 2009 PBS ''Frontline'' broadcast. Both books recount how this swindler used his legal business as a broker-dealer and his reputation as an innovative founder of Nasdaq to attract investors and elude sharp scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission. Both describe how he parlayed the reputations of a few well-respected investors and associates (like Carl Shapiro and J. Ezra Merkin) into large followings in exclusive communities like Palm Beach and the Upper East Side of Manhattan, and how he used feeder funds (which steered clients' money to him) to extend his global reach. 
 In addition, both books trace the Cassandra-like warnings of Harry Markopolos, a private investigator and former investment officer who for nine years persistently and futilely tried to explain to the S.E.C. that Mr. Madoff was a fraud -- that his high, ridiculously consistent returns were not mathematically possible -- and who presciently argued that it was very likely that ''Madoff Securities is the world's largest Ponzi scheme.''
 Although both authors have also conducted their own interviews with former Madoff employees, investors and friends, their books take decidedly different narrative tacks. Ms. Arvedlund -- who, in a 2001 Barron's article, was among the first to question Mr. Madoff's record publicly -- works hard to situate the Madoff mess within the larger framework of hedge-fund mania and the Wall Street recklessness that led to the fiscal cataclysms of 2008. She is interested in the How of It All: how was Mr. Madoff able to scam investors (some of whom belonged to the fiscal and banking elite) for decades and how did he manage to elude detection for so many years? 
 In contrast, Mr. Kirtzman -- the author of a 2000 biography of Rudolph W. Giuliani -- is more interested in Mr. Madoff himself, in trying to understand how this man could betray so many people, including longtime friends, poor retirees and charities, as well as wealthy neighbors and business associates. He suggests that Mr. Madoff had something of an inferiority complex as a teenager -- ''living in the shadow of his best friend and being rejected by girls who deemed him mediocre.'' 
 He also writes that Mr. Madoff came to see money as a path to power and self-esteem, and that in his early years in the business, doing ''the humbling work of trading penny stocks,'' he had to toil in the shadow of big, upscale firms like Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley and conceived ''a spectacularly ambitious path to conquer Wall Street at an early age.'' 
 Writing melodramatically about his subject's ''descent into evil,'' Mr. Kirtzman argues that Mr. Madoff was not, as he himself implied, ''a good man who got into trouble late in his career and couldn't get out of it,'' but someone who likely began ''his criminal operation when he was in his 20s.'' He says that Mr. Madoff's ''parents ran afoul of the law with a shadowy stock trading operation,'' run out of their home, which turned out to be ''an eerie precursor to his crimes.'' And he also contends that Mr. Madoff was someone who lied easily -- not just about money but also about his biography, claiming, for instance, that he grew up poor on the Lower East Side when in fact his childhood was, over all, ''a safe, comfortable, middle-class existence.''
 Both Mr. Kirtzman and Ms. Arvedlund recount an incident in which the young Mr. Madoff took a friend on a high-speed drive over icy roads in 1958, but while Mr. Kirtzman uses the anecdote to conclude that his subject had an ''appetite for risk'' and an ''apparent belief that he was impervious to its consequences,'' Ms. Arvedlund sensibly points out that such ''youthful misdeeds and lapses in judgments didn't necessarily portend a life of crime.'' After all, many young people drive recklessly or have inferiority complexes and yet don't grow up to become scoundrels guilty of a globe-spanning crime involving tens of billions of dollars. 
 Although Ms. Arvedlund's book is a decidedly drier read, Mr. Kirtzman's determination to construct a novelistic, you-are-there sort of narrative leads him, especially in the book's closing pages, to relate events from an omniscient viewpoint -- going so far as to describe Mr. Madoff's thoughts (''A calm washed over him. It was time to reveal his secret'') as he plots ''the rollout of his surrender'' -- when in fact the author is often relying on second-hand sources or a single party's perspective on events. 
 Mr. Kirtzman notes that he ''spoke at length with a spokesman for Andy and Mark Madoff,'' Bernard Madoff's two sons, who turned him in, and passages toward the end of the book tend to echo their point of view, suggesting that they had no knowledge of what their father was up to, even though they occupied senior positions in the firm. 
 ''The boys and their uncle could probably have uncovered Bernie's crimes if they'd followed any of the dozens of obvious clues,'' Mr. Kirtzman writes, noting that ''clues to Bernie's crimes were all around them.'' But, he adds, ''that would have taken a desire to learn the truth.''
 Of course, as the long-ignored Mr. Markopolos well knew, clues to Mr. Madoff's scam were also available to his more financially savvy investors, particularly the heads of funds like those run by the Fairfield Greenwich Group and the Gabriel Capital Group. But denial seems to have been the order of the day on the part of feeder-fund brass who were getting rich collecting management fees for the money they were handing over to Mr. Madoff. Some simply failed to do due diligence. Some assured themselves that a successful broker like Mr. Madoff, in Ms. Arvedlund's words, ''didn't need to be a crook.'' And some suspected that he might be up to something illegal, but assumed he was doing it on their behalf.
 In the end, there was a broad spectrum of Madoff victims, who spanned many classes and communities and much of the world: friends and their friends and relatives who trusted ''Uncle Bernie'' to keep their money safe; ordinary people who had no idea that the feeder funds they'd invested in were actually funneling the money to Mr. Madoff; retail investors who thought they were being prudent in choosing funds that promised such consistent returns; wealthy clients who thought they were joining an exclusive club by handing their cash over to Mr. Madoff; and some clients who thought, as one banker put it, that ''they were getting a real Rolex for 20 bucks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS(C25)
Bernard L. Madoff arriving on March 12 at Manhattan federal court, where he pleaded guilty to operating a vast Ponzi scheme.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES)
Andrew Kirtzman (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYLE FROMAN)
 Erin Arvedlund (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL COLLITON)(C31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (63%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Betrayal: The Life and Lies of Bernie Madoff (Book); (Book); Too Good to Be True: The Rise and Fall of Bernie Madoff (Book); Betrayal: The Life and Lies of Bernie Madoff (Book); (Book); Too Good to Be True: The Rise and Fall of Bernie Madoff (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



373 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
DANCE
 Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. 
 (Anderson)
 'DIAGHILEV'S THEATER OF MARVELS: THE BALLETS RUSSES AND ITS AFTERMATH' (Friday, Saturday, and Monday through Thursday) Numerous exhibitions and dance performances throughout the world are celebrating the centennial of that famous first Ballets Russes performance in Paris, and the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts has its own display of scores, costume and set designs, diaries, notebooks, documentary film and rare archival footage. The exhibition displays the extraordinary richness of collaboration (Stravinsky! Picasso! Nijinsky!) that characterized the company's two-decade existence and has so deeply influenced the subsequent course of dance history. (Through Sept. 12.) New York Public Library for the Performing Arts Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-1630, nypl.org/lpa; free. (Roslyn Sulcas)20090813 
 DOWNTOWN DANCE FESTIVAL (Monday through Thursday) This 28th-annual event unites ballet, tap, theater dance and dance from many folk traditions. Monday's performers: Janaki Rangarajan, Battery Dance Company, Dance China NY. Tuesday: Stefanie Nelson Dance Group, Vissi Dance Theater, Rebecca Kelly Ballet, Chase Brock Experience. Wednesday: Erasing Borders Festival program organized by Indo-American Arts Council. Thursday: Kolkha Folk Ensemble, which had been scheduled to perform, will not be present; substitutes have not yet been announced. (Through Aug. 23.) At noon, Chase Plaza, Nassau Street between Liberty and Pine Streets, Lower Manhattan, batterydanceco.com; free. (Jack Anderson) 
 FRINGE FESTIVAL: FACE THE MUSIC ... AND DANCE! (Sunday and Tuesday) Responding to the current recession, five choreographers (Julian Barnett, Tina Croll, Maura Nguyen Donohue, Heidi Latsky and Noa Sagie) have created a program of works, featuring more than 30 dancers from their companies, to celebrate strength in unity. (Through Aug. 29.) Sunday at 7:30 p.m.; Tuesday at 5:45 p.m., Center for Creative Resources, 154 West 88th Street, Manhattan, (212) 864-7827, fringeNYC.org; $15. (Anderson) 
 JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) America's oldest dance festival remains proudly international and eclectic. This weekend Doug Varone and Dancers offer ''Lux,'' performed to Philip Glass, and RubberBanDance presents Victor Quijada's ''Punto Ciego'' (''Blind Spot''). Starting on Wednesday, the Pacific Northwest Ballet celebrates the choreography of Ulysses Dove with ''Red Angels'' and ''Dancing on the Front Porch of Heaven.'' And in ''Lost Action,'' Crystal Pite's company, Kidd Pivot, makes a fusion of dance and athleticism a metaphor for life and loss. (The festival runs through Aug. 30.) Complete listings, including free performances and lectures: jacobspillow.org. 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413) 243-0745; $33 to $58. 
 OPEN WORLD CULTURAL LEADERS PROGRAM: CHOREOGRAPHERS/THEATER DIRECTORS (Thursday) Two Russian choreographers (Alexander Andriyashkin and Tatiana Luzai) and two stage directors (Kseniya Petrenko and Aleksei Zherebtsov), brought to New York by CEC Arts Link, blur the boundaries between arts in an unusual gallery that also blurs boundaries between interior and exterior spaces. At 6 p.m., Storefront for Art and Architecture, 97 Kenmare Street, between Mulberry and Lafayette Streets, Little Italy, (212) 431-5795, cecartslink.org; free with R.S.V.P. to akadysheva-yong@cecartslink.org or through Facebook. (Anderson) 
 TULSA BALLET (Friday and Saturday) A rare chance to see Kenneth MacMillan's ''Elite Syncopations'' comes with a welcome New York visit by the Tulsa Ballet, in a program that also includes Nacho Duato's ''Por Vos Muero'' (''For You I Die'') and ''This Is Your Life'' by the Korean choreographer Young Soon Hue. The company, directed by Marcello Angelini, has a reputation for acquiring a diverse and interesting repertory; here's your chance to see a sample of it. Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $19 to $39. (Sulcas) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tulsa Ballet: Karina Gonzalez and other company members in Kenneth MacMillan's ''Elite Syncopations.'' The company ends its run at the Joyce on Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (95%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); BALLET (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); DANCERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FOLKLORE (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (56%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



374 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Budget Deal Ending Need For I.O.U.'s In California

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The era of i.o.u.'s is almost over in California. 
 State Controller John Chiang said Thursday that California's new $85 billion budget deal would allow it to stop issuing i.o.u.'s in early September, ending a two-month period in which the nation's most populous state could not pay its bills. 
 ''This spending plan should provide sufficient cash to meet all of California's payment obligations through the fiscal year,'' Mr. Chiang said in a statement. 
 In addition, Mr. Chiang said California would seek to pay off the 327,000 i.o.u.'s it had issued to taxpayers, vendors and contractors across the state on Sept. 4, a month earlier than expected. All told, those notes -- which earned a 3.75 interest rate and the scorn of many residents, business owners and late-night comedians -- are worth nearly $2 billion.
 The i.o.u.'s, formally known as registered warrants, were perhaps the most visible symbol of California's profound economic, legislative and budgetary problems, a crisis brought on by the recession, a collapse in the housing market and gridlock in Sacramento, the state capital. 
 The biggest culprit was a sharp decline in tax revenues, a phenomenon that financial officials cautioned was still under way.
 ''We've still got to wait out the economic cycle,'' said Garin Casaleggio, a spokesman for the controller's office, adding that projections for the coming year did not look encouraging. 
 Mr. Casaleggio said the state would still need to borrow some $10.5 billion to get through the rest of the fiscal year that ends June 30, 2010. 
 The current budget closed a $24 billion gap with a series of deep cuts, borrowing and accounting maneuvers. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, did not sign it until late July and only after making millions of dollars in line-item vetoes. 
 The signing, however, has not ended the legislative battles. On Monday, the Democratic leader of the California Senate, Darrell Steinberg, filed a lawsuit saying Mr. Schwarzenegger had overstepped his powers with his line-item cuts. Mr. Steinberg said the cuts affected ''the poor, the young and the very old.'' 
 Aaron McLear, a spokesman, said Mr. Schwarzenegger's ''constitutional authority to veto appropriations is unquestioned.'' 
 Mr. Chiang's announcement, meanwhile, was more muted, carrying equal notes of relief, caution and profound embarrassment that California -- one of the nation's most powerful economic engines -- had been reduced to saying ''pay you later.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



375 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. SENATOR TO MEET WITH MYANMAR LEADER
 Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, is planning to meet with the leader of the junta in Myanmar this weekend, just days after the country's pro-democracy leader was convicted in a case that has drawn international condemnation. PAGE A4 
 IRON ORE SHIELDS AUSTRALIA
 Australia has weathered the Great Recession better than many other countries, helped by its vast iron ore resources, which are at the heart of its increasingly complicated relationship with China. PAGE A5 
 STRANDED IN TAIWAN
 Taiwan sent 4,000 more soldiers to areas that were stricken by Typhoon Morakot. Thousands of people have been airlifted out by military helicopters in recent days, but many others are awaiting help. PAGE A6 
 NORTH KOREA FREES WORKER
 North Korea released a South Korean worker it had held for several months, signaling what analysts called a desire by the North to ease relations with the South. PAGE A6 
 CLINTON BACKS LIBERIAN
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton landed in Liberia and sent a message of support to President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, whose role in the country's conflict-ridden past has come under scrutiny. PAGE A7 
 ISRAEL RULES OUT KIDNAPPING
 Twelve hours after the Israeli Army began a desperate search for what it feared was an abducted soldier, it said it had ruled out any such possibility. PAGE A8 
 CAFE BOMBING KILLS 21 IRAQIS
 Two bombers wearing suicide vests blew themselves up in a popular cafe crowded with young people in northwestern Iraq, killing 21 and wounding 30 others, according to local hospital officials. PAGE A8 
 Police Verify Cairo Link to Nazi A7 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BOMBINGS (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); ARMIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HELICOPTERS (69%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); HOSPITALS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIM WEBB (73%); ELLEN JOHNSON-SIRLEAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



376 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Obama Proposal to Create Medicare Panel Meets With Resistance

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As chairman of one of the more obscure federal agencies, Glenn M. Hackbarth is little known outside the world of health care and his hometown, Bend, Ore. If President Obama has his way, Mr. Hackbarth could become one of the most important people in government, with the power to say how Medicare spends more than $450 billion a year. 
 But the president's proposal to create a potent rate-setting body modeled on Mr. Hackbarth's agency, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, is meeting resistance from lawmakers, doctors, hospitals and even some advocates for older Americans. 
 Mr. Obama's proposal would transform the agency, known as Medpac, which has just 36 employees and a budget of $10.5 million, and typically holds seven meetings a year in a nondescript conference room in the Ronald Reagan Building on Pennsylvania Avenue. 
 In annual reports to Congress, the existing commission recommends Medicare payment rates for hospitals, doctors, nursing homes and other health care providers. Recommendations of the proposed new entity, like those of military-base closing commissions, could take effect unless blocked by Congress.
 Under the White House plan, the new agency would also propose broader ''reforms to the Medicare program.'' Mr. Obama even suggested, in a recent speech to the 50-and-over advocacy groupAARP, that the new agency could compare the effectiveness of treatments for particular conditions. The agency, he said, could ''provide recommendations about what treatments work best and what gives you the best value for your health care dollar.''
 So far, Mr. Obama's proposal has been welcomed by health economists and fiscal hawks eager to reduce the federal budget deficit and slow the growth of Medicare. But the proposal has received a cool reception in Congress. 
 Many lawmakers say Mr. Obama's proposal would take away their power to set Medicare payment policies, which may involve, for example, steering extra payments to rural hospitals and teaching hospitals.
 Doctors and hospital executives are lobbying against the plan, fearful that the new agency would cut their Medicare payments.
 The existing commission is made up of 17 members, including doctors, hospital executives, a labor union official, an AARP officer, an actuary, academics and health policy experts. 
 Some of its recommendations have been simple: ''Congress should update payments for physician services in 2010 by 1.1 percent.'' Others deal with technical topics like the wage index or ''resident-to-bed ratio'' at hospitals. The discussions often sound like college seminars, so it is easy to forget that tens of billions of dollars are at stake. 
 The new agency would have far more power than the current commission, headed for the last eight years by Mr. Hackbarth, a former executive at the Harvard Community Health Plan and a former Medicare official.
 One goal is to save money in an apolitical, technocratic way. But lawmakers are concerned that Mr. Obama's proposal would turn what is now an independent Congressional agency into an executive branch body, with members appointed by the president. And if the panel tried to translate judgments about the effectiveness of various medical treatments into Medicare payment policy, Congress's ability to tamp down any political outcry might be limited.
 Even some advocacy groups who speak for older Americans and the disabled -- the beneficiaries of Medicare -- are uneasy. Judith A. Stein, director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy, a nonprofit group, said she worried about the possible effects on beneficiaries. ''The proposal,'' she said, ''would hand off important authority to unelected officials.'' At the least, Ms. Stein said, Congress should be able to disapprove individual recommendations, without having to accept or reject an entire package, as Mr. Obama proposed.
 The White House says its proposal ''would free Congress from the burdens of dealing with highly technical issues such as Medicare reimbursement rates,'' and some health economists back the idea.
 Lawmakers question whether the proposed new agency would be insulated from politics. They also say Congress should not delegate so much power to a group that is not politically accountable. In a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi last week, 75 House members from both parties and all parts of the country criticized Mr. Obama's proposal and similar bills, saying they could threaten the ability of patients to get access to the care they need. 
 ''The idea that we should forfeit or outsource our constitutional responsibility over Medicare is ill-considered,'' said Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 If Congress gave the commission rate-setting or decision-making power, it would almost surely change the culture of the agency, which is widely admired for its technical expertise.
 Jack L. Ashby, a former research director at the Medicare payment commission, said: ''One of the keys to Medpac's success is that it is advisory. Its deliberations have been open and honest; the members are straight shooters. I fear that if it was given regulatory power, the nature of the deliberations would change. Lobbying would be very heavy, much heavier than it is now.''
 Members of the current commission are appointed by the comptroller general of the United States, who serves a 15-year term as head of the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office. Under Mr. Obama's proposal, members of the proposed new agency, the Independent Medicare Advisory Council, would be appointed by the president, subject to Senate confirmation.
 Health policy experts also doubt that lawmakers would keep their distance from the new agency. 
 ''I don't think Congress will ever get its fingers out of the pie,'' said Christopher Hogan, who has worked for the Medicare commission as an employee and a research consultant. ''There are too many goodies to be given way.''
 Lobbyists said they would devote much more attention to the commission if it could make decisions, not just recommendations. Moreover, even if Congress established such an agency today, it could not bind a future Congress, which could pass laws to alter or supersede those decisions.
 Mr. Obama praises the existing agency, but says its reports too often molder on the shelf.
 In fact, many of the commission's recommendations have ultimately been adopted by Congress and the Department of Health and Human Services, and not all of them saved money.
 The Congressional Budget Office said the commission proposed by Mr. Obama might save $2 billion over the next 10 years, but it saw a high probability that ''no savings would be realized.''
 Paradoxically, the attributes needed to secure greater savings are also likely to weaken support for the proposal on Capitol Hill.
 Douglas W. Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said, for example, that the legislation could save more money if Congress authorized the commission to set explicit goals to cut Medicare spending, with ''an across-the-board reduction in payments'' if the goal was not met.
 In June, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, introduced a bill that would transfer the Medicare commission to the executive branch and give it more power than even Mr. Obama has proposed. ''Medicare payment policy should be determined by experts, using evidence, not by the undue influence of special interests,'' Mr. Rockefeller said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glenn M. Hackbarth, head of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, would have more power in a proposed new agency.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission: Who's who on the independent agency that advises Congress on Medicare.
 How an Agency Affected Policy: As part of sweeping health care legislation, Congress is considering proposals to establish a powerful new federal agency to set Medicare payment rates and policies, now largely set by Congress. Here are examples of recommendations in recent years by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, and what resulted. CONGRESS SHOULD INCREASE MEDICARE PAYMENT RATES for rural hospitals. Congress accepted this recommendation, eliminating differences in the basic payments or standardized amounts. As a result, profit margins or returns on Medicare business at rural and urban hospitals are supposed to be comparable. CONGRESS SHOULD REDUCE PAYMENTS to private Medicare Advantage plans, which are 14 percent higher, on average, than Medicare spending for similar beneficiaries in the traditional Medicare program. Congress has trimmed payments, but has not gone as far as proposed by the commission, which said payments should be based on 100 percent of costs in traditional Medicare. The current House bill includes a policy to achieve that goal. CONGRESS SHOULD BLOCK SCHEDULED CUTS in Medicare payments to doctors and give them an increase of 1 percent to 1.5 percent instead. Congress has generally taken this advice. MEDICARE PAYMENTS TO HOSPITALS SHOULD BE ADJUSTED to reflect the severity of each patient's illness, and payment rates should be based on hospital costs, rather than charges. Medicare officials adopted these recommendations in 2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); RURAL HEALTH (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); MILITARY BASES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



377 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Election Race Narrows

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
President Hamid Karzai is still leading in the presidential race one week before the national election, but his opponents are closing the gap, and he still falls short of the 50 percent support needed to avoid a runoff, a new opinion poll showed Thursday. 
 The survey, by the International Republican Institute, showed Mr. Karzai with 44 percent, up from 31 percent in May. But his closest rival, Abdullah Abdullah, the candidate for the largest opposition bloc, the National Front, showed the biggest surge, polling 26 percent, nearly four times his support in May. 
 Mr. Karzai's campaign was gaining traction -- he holds a favorable rating of 64 percent, according to the I.R.I. -- but Mr. Abdullah was on such an upward swing that he could threaten the president if the election goes to a second round, one political analyst said, asking not to be named because of the political sensitivities of the subject. Mr. Abdullah had a favorable rating of 48 percent, the poll found.
 The I.R.I. is a nonprofit pro-democracy group affiliated with the Republican Party and financed by the American government.
 Among the other candidates, the independent Ramazan Bashardost, a former planning minister and current member of Parliament, got 10 percent support, and the former finance minister Ashraf Ghani got 6 percent, both up from 3 percent in May. 
 The results were similar to a poll published this week by Glevum Associates, financed by the United States government, which placed Mr. Karzai at 36 percent and Mr. Abdullah at 20 percent. Mr. Bashardost showed 7 percent and Mr. Ghani had 3 percent. 
 The I.R.I. attributed Mr. Abdullah's surge to a strong desire for change. Eighty-three percent of respondents answered yes to the question, ''Do you think Afghanistan needs to change direction in the next five years?'' 
 Fifty-eight percent of respondents thought a unified team of Mr. Abdullah and Ashraf Ghani would be a good option for Afghanistan. 
 Security is the issue that most concerned voters, the poll found, with the economy and jobs a close second. 
 The opinion poll was conducted from July 16 to 26, with in-person interviews with 2,400 adults throughout Afghanistan. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 2 percentage points.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 14 about a poll that showed a narrowing of the presidential election race in Afghanistan misstated the favorable ratings for President Hamid Karzai and for Abdullah Abdullah, the candidate for the largest opposition bloc. At the time of the poll, Mr. Karzai held a favorable rating of 81 percent, not 64 percent, and Mr. Abdullah had a favorable rating of 71 percent, not 48 percent. The 64 and 48 figures reflected the percentage point differences between each man's favorable and unfavorable ratings. (The outcome of the election is still not known.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (58%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



378 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Getting to the Source of the 'Death Panel' Rumor

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JACKIE CALMES; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The stubborn yet false rumor that President Obama's health care proposals would create government-sponsored ''death panels'' to decide which patients were worthy of living seemed to arise from nowhere in recent weeks.
 Advanced even this week by Republican stalwarts including the party's last vice-presidential nominee, Sarah Palin, and Charles E. Grassley, the veteran Iowa senator, the nature of the assertion nonetheless seemed reminiscent of the modern-day viral Internet campaigns that dogged Mr. Obama last year, falsely calling him a Muslim and questioning his nationality.
 But the rumor -- which has come up at Congressional town-hall-style meetings this week in spite of an avalanche of reports laying out why it was false -- was not born of anonymous e-mailers, partisan bloggers or stealthy cyberconspiracy theorists. 
 Rather, it has a far more mainstream provenance, openly emanating months ago from many of the same pundits and conservative media outlets that were central in defeating President Bill Clinton's health care proposals 16 years ago, including the editorial board of The Washington Times, the American Spectator magazine and Betsy McCaughey, whose 1994 health care critique made her a star of the conservative movement (and ultimately, New York's lieutenant governor). 
 There is nothing in any of the legislative proposals that would call for the creation of death panels or any other governmental body that would cut off care for the critically ill as a cost-cutting measure. But over the course of the past few months, early, stated fears from anti-abortion conservatives that Mr. Obama would pursue a pro-abortion, pro-euthanasia agenda, combined with twisted accounts of actual legislative proposals that would provide financing for optional consultations with doctors about hospice care and other ''end of life'' services, fed the rumor to the point where it overcame the debate.
 On Thursday, Mr. Grassley said in a statement that he and others in the small group of senators that was trying to negotiate a health care plan had dropped any ''end of life'' proposals from consideration.
 A pending House bill has language authorizing Medicare to finance beneficiaries' consultations with professionals on whether to authorize aggressive and potentially life-saving interventions later in life. Though the consultations would be voluntary, and a similar provision passed in Congress last year without such a furor, Mr. Grassley said it was being dropped in the Senate ''because of the way they could be misinterpreted and implemented incorrectly.''
 The extent to which it and other provisions have been misinterpreted in recent days, notably by angry speakers at recent town hall meetings but also by Ms. Palin -- who popularized the ''death panel'' phrase -- has surprised longtime advocates of changes to the health care system.
 ''I guess what surprised me is the ferocity, it's much stronger than I expected,'' said John Rother, the executive vice president of AARP, which is supportive of the health care proposals and has repeatedly declared the ''death panel'' rumors false. ''It's people who are ideologically opposed to Mr. Obama, and this is the opportunity to weaken the president.''
 The specter of government-sponsored, forced euthanasia was raised as early as Nov. 23, just weeks after the election and long before any legislation had been drafted, by an outlet decidedly opposed to Mr. Obama, The Washington Times.
 In an editorial, the newspaper reminded its readers of the Aktion T4 program of Nazi Germany in which ''children and adults with disabilities, and anyone anywhere in the Third Reich was subject to execution who was blind, deaf, senile, retarded, or had any significant neurological condition.''
 Noting the ''administrative predilections'' of the new team at the White House, it urged ''anyone who sees the current climate as a budding T4 program to win the hearts and minds of deniers.''
 The editorial captured broader concerns about Mr. Obama's abortion rights philosophy held among socially conservative Americans who did not vote for him. But it did not directly tie forced euthanasia to health care plans of Mr. Obama and his Democratic allies in Congress. 
 When the Democrats included money for family planning in a proposed version of the stimulus bill in January, the socially conservative George Neumayr wrote for the American Spectator: ''Euthanasia is another shovel ready job for Pelosi to assign to the states. Reducing health care costs under Obama's plan, after all, counts as economic stimulus, too -- controlling life, controlling death, controlling costs.''
 Ms. McCaughey, whose 1994 critique of Mr. Clinton's plan was hotly disputed after its publication in The New Republic, weighed in around the same time. 
 She warned that a provision in the stimulus bill would create a bureaucracy to ''monitor treatments to make sure your doctor is doing what the federal government deems appropriate and cost-effective,'' was carried in a commentary she wrote for Bloomberg News that gained resonance throughout the conservative media, most notably with Rush Limbaugh and the Fox News Channel host Glenn Beck. 
 The legislation did not direct the coordinator to dictate doctors' treatments. A separate part of the law -- regarding a council set up to coordinate research comparing the effectiveness of treatments -- states that the council's recommendations cannot ''be construed as mandates or clinical guidelines for payment, coverage or treatment.''
 But Ms. McCaughey's article provided another opportunity for others to raise the specter of forced euthanasia. ''Sometimes for the common good, you just have to say, 'Hey, Grandpa, you've had a good life,' '' Mr. Beck said.
 The syndicated conservative columnist Cal Thomas wrote, ''No one should be surprised at the coming embrace of euthanasia.'' The Washington Times editorial page reprised its reference to the Nazis, quoting the Aktion T4 program: ''It must be made clear to anyone suffering from an incurable disease that the useless dissipation of costly medications drawn from the public store cannot be justified.''
 The notion was picked up by various conservative groups, but still, as Mr. Obama and Congress remained focused on other matters, it did not gain wide attention. Former Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, an advocate for the health care proposals, said he was occasionally confronted with the ''forced euthanasia'' accusation at forums on the plans, but came to see it as an advantage. ''Almost automatically you have most of the audience on your side,'' Mr. Daschle said. ''Any rational normal person isn't going to believe that assertion.''
 But as Congress developed its legislation this summer, critics seized on provisions requiring Medicare financing for ''end of life'' consultations, bringing the debate to a peak. To David Brock, a former conservative journalist who once impugned the Clintons but now runs a group that monitors and defends against attacks on liberals, the uproar is a reminder of what has changed -- the creation of groups like his -- and what has not. 
 ''In the 90s, every misrepresentation under the sun was made about the Clinton plan and there was no real capacity to push back,'' he said. ''Now, there is that capacity.''
 Still, one proponent of the euthanasia theory, Mr. Neumayr, said he saw no reason to stop making the claim. 
 ''I think a government-run plan that is administered by politicians and bureaucrats who support euthanasia is inevitably going to reflect that view,'' he said, ''and I don't think that's a crazy leap.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the origins of the false rumor that President Obama's health care proposals would create government-sponsored panels to decide which patients were worthy of living referred imprecisely to the stance of The Washington Times, which shortly after the election published an editorial comparing some positions of the incoming administration to the euthanasia policies of the Third Reich. In describing the newspaper as ''an outlet decidedly opposed to Mr. Obama,'' the article was referring to its opinion pages, not to its news pages.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Charles E. Grassley spoke Wednesday to a crowd in Adel, Iowa, about health care.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE POPE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 PHOTOS(A13) TIMELINE: A Much-Debated Health Care Proposal(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HOSPICE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); ABORTION (69%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009



379 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: On This Campus, Focus Is Jobs

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio 

 BODY:
When Todd Sollar was laid off after 11 years at General Motors, he enrolled at Sinclair Community College in downtown Dayton to study robotics.
 ''Hopefully, with a degree I'll be marketable for a job,'' said Mr. Sollar, 32, who has overcome his nervousness about not fitting in because of his age. In fact, he is thriving, getting A's and B's, far better than in high school where he said officials had wrongly pegged him as having a learning disability.
 As legions of displaced autoworkers and others face the prospect that their onetime jobs may be gone forever, many like Mr. Sollar will need training for a fresh start. 
 And perhaps the best place for them will be community colleges, long the workhorses of American higher education, workhorses that get little respect. In an unforgiving economy, these colleges provide lifelines not only for laid-off workers in need of a new career, but for recent high school graduates who find that many types of entry-level jobs now require additional skills. 
 President Obama has embraced the nation's community colleges, arguing that they are vital bulwarks against the decline of the middle class -- and of America's competitiveness. 
 Speaking last month in Michigan, Mr. Obama placed the nation's 1,200 community colleges at the center of his ambitious plan to increase the number of college graduates by five million over the next decade. The goal is to create a higher skilled, more prosperous work force. 
 Sinclair Community College, widely acclaimed as one of the best such colleges in the nation, is at the vanguard of such efforts. The college is retraining thousands of laid-off G.M., Delphi and other workers. It is also working closely with city, county and business leaders to identify and nurture growth industries and to train the workers those industries will need. In turn, many of its goals are being achieved with the help of generous local funding from taxpayers. 
 This year, Sinclair's enrollment jumped 25 percent over last year, to 37,000, because of rising unemployment as well as its unusually low tuition of $2,000 a year, an innovative scholarship program and its 170 academic programs and certificates. 
 Sinclair is such a magnet that 50 percent of the adults in surrounding Montgomery County have taken courses there. Without the stigma that many community colleges have, it can also attract many solid students, who are eager to take advantage of low tuition for two years before moving on to a four-year college.
 To expand enrollment, Sinclair offers an unusual scholarship to thousands of students who might never have considered college. High school students who take technical courses and achieve a C-plus average in their junior and senior years are offered a $3,000 scholarship -- worth one-and-a-half year's tuition -- giving many less-than-stellar students a warm embrace that pulls them into Sinclair's classrooms. 
 Casey Benedict, 23, took advantage of that scholarship to study manufacturing processes and lightweight composites. Today, he holds a good-paying job at a high-tech composites factory housed inside a defunct Delphi auto parts plant.
 Sinclair has worked with 53 high schools to upgrade their technical courses to make it easier for students to transition to college. It has even made a $4 million grant to help plan and build a public ''career technology'' high school in Dayton that will offer electronics, broadcasting and industrial engineering courses and serve as a feeder school for the college.
 ''For most 10th-graders there's a societal assumption that you'll go on to 11th grade, and for most 11th-graders there's an assumption you'll go on to 12th grade,'' said Steven L. Johnson, Sinclair's president. ''We're trying to create a societal assumption that 12th-graders will go on to college.'' 
 Long a center of auto and auto parts production, Dayton has been battered by Detroit's woes, and Sinclair has become an important engine of economic development for the area.
 ''We can bring a lot of jobs to the area, but if we can't put the work force in place to fill those positions, it's unrealized potential,'' said Jim Leftwich, president of the Dayton Development Coalition. ''Sinclair has been with us every step of the way in helping prepare the work force we need.''
 With a nod to the giant Wright-Patterson Air Force Base nearby, community leaders have identified aerospace research and development, advanced materials and manufacturing, and health care as industries to help the area rebound. 
 Along with the advanced manufacturing degrees that Mr. Benedict and Mr. Sollar have pursued, Sinclair offers an unusual degree in advanced technical intelligence (to prepare students to interpret remote sensor data, like those from satellites, perhaps for jobs with the Air Force or the C.I.A.) 
 Sinclair has another strategy for strengthening the region's economy. Its Advanced Integrated Manufacturing Center has a staff of consultants that advise many local businesses on increasing productivity or expanding operations. The center's robotics experts often help design manufacturing processes and develop prototypes for new products.
 Sinclair also provides traditional training for police officers, firefighters, chefs, nurses and auto mechanics.
 After working for eight years in human resources at a now-closed Delphi auto parts plant, Kelli Martin, 41, has enrolled at Sinclair, hoping to become a nurse in pediatric oncology. 
 ''In this community, Sinclair's nursing program is considered the tops,'' she said. ''Sinclair has the buzz.'' She said Sinclair's flexibility was crucial for someone like her, with two toddlers. The college has five campuses, offers many courses both day and evening, and teaches 5,000 students in online courses each quarter.
 ''We help people go from $8-an-hour jobs to $18-an-hour jobs,'' said Mr. Johnson, the college president. 
 He added: ''It's not the college's fault that they might go from a $28-an-hour job at G.M. to an $18-an-hour job. That's just the new normal.''
 An unusual source of revenue gives Sinclair a leg up over many community colleges. Every 10 years since the 1960s, Montgomery County's voters have approved a real estate levy to help finance the college. That assessment provides $34 million of Sinclair's $135 million annual budget. 
 ''We've used that levy to create a massive tuition discount,'' Mr. Johnson explained. Sinclair's tuition levels are half those of many other community colleges. 
 At this spring's commencement, Mr. Johnson asked the assembled students whether anyone had ever told them they were not college material. More than one-third of the graduates raised their hands.
 Mr. Sollar certainly falls into that category. ''I was scared to death of school,'' he said. ''I thought I wouldn't fit in.'' 
 A tour of the campus, though, reassured him that there were many other, older laid-off workers in search of retraining. 
 Sinclair makes extra efforts with at-risk students like Mr. Sollar, monitoring their progress and offering free tutors. Mr. Sollar has used tutors regularly for his English classes, but not for his robotics courses. 
 In his core area of study, he has built a miniaturized assembly line and programmed computers to run factory robots. He hopes getting his robotics degree will persuade Volkswagen to hire him for the factory it has planned for Chattanooga, Tenn. 
 ''Sinclair has given me self-esteem,'' Mr. Sollar said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kelli Martin and Todd Sollar are studying at Sinclair Community College in Ohio. Both once worked in the auto industry.(B1)
Steven Johnson, the president of Sinclair Community College in Dayton, Ohio, with Alan Edwards, a student, in the library.
 This year, enrollment at Sinclair jumped 25 percent, to 37,000. Its tuition levels are half those of many other community colleges. At left, the library, and above, a plaza on campus.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



380 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1097 words

PERSON: Leonid M. Chernovetsky 

HEADLINE: Is the Mayor Fit for Office? Some Say Yes, Some Say No

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine 

 BODY:
 LEONID M. CHERNOVETSKY, this city's unpredictable mayor, likes to answer his critics in his own special way.
 When Parliament members said he was acting bizarrely and needed a psychiatric exam, he went to a stadium where he jogged for the cameras before yanking off his shirt and doing pull-ups. He swam laps and flexed his muscles like Charles Atlas. Then he held a news conference -- in his tiny bathing suit.
 ''They are judging me today and want me to spend the rest of my life behind the bars of a psychiatric hospital,'' Mr. Chernovetsky said. ''Look at my body, at how I express my thoughts. I am absolutely healthy. I think logically and philosophically.'' 
 True, he was in fine physical shape for a man of 57, though perhaps this was not the wisest strategy for proving one's competence.
 But that is Mr. Chernovetsky. Think New York City has had its share of outsize personalities as mayor? They have got nothing on Mr. Chernovetsky, who is also known as Lenny Cosmos because sometimes his head seems to be someplace far, far away.
 He makes eccentric suggestions (a statue of Ukraine's most famous poet should be erected in Africa) and staffing decisions (firing a zoo director for not finding a mate for an elephant), and personal gestures (offering to sell his kisses in a lottery).
 He interrupts meetings by warbling melancholy Soviet ballads, and even issued a CD on which he covers his favorites. ''Who sings better than me?'' he asked. ''Nobody does, besides God.''
 And time after time, he does loopy things to prove that he is not loopy.
 Politics in Ukraine is already a bit of a sideshow, what with the president and his rivals so estranged that the country still lacks a finance minister, which might be good to have in, say, a financial crisis.
 Mr. Chernovetsky's ability to retain his job, though, may be an especially telling sign of the breakdown in the political culture since the Orange Revolution of 2004, which brought to power a pro-Western government that has increasingly exasperated the public.
 He is widely regarded as a problem. But the nation's leaders cannot stop squabbling long enough to agree on what to do about him.
 In an interview at his office, Mr. Chernovetsky dismissed complaints about his behavior, maintaining that he was misunderstood and had wide popularity.
 He spoke of what he said were his accomplishments in Kiev, a city of nearly three million people: nurturing development, combating corruption and helping the poor.
 He said he had carried out innovations like setting up an information hot line that has received millions of calls. He is given credit for improving the city's greenery and restoring its historic sites. His backers say that as a result, Kiev, with its lovely cathedrals and old neighborhoods, has remained a charming city that continues to draw businesses and tourists, no matter the tough times.
 ''Everyone wants me to leave, except the people who elected me,'' Mr. Chernovetsky said. ''My voters are ordinary people, and I speak to them in one language, the language of ordinary people, even though, of course, I am not an ordinary person.''
 Mr. Chernovetsky repeatedly returned to that theme, noting that he used to be an exceptionally talented businessman and lawyer who became a millionaire in banking. 
 ''They have always called me crazy,'' he said. ''The thing is, crazy are the people who don't understand that the future belongs to those who are not standard, who are open and vulnerable.''
 Still, even in a relatively tame, 45-minute discussion in his office in Kiev, Mr. Chernovetsky seemed a little off. For much of the interview, he would not look at his questioner, speaking in almost a monotone while staring at the floor.
 In public appearances, this bearing -- combined with occasional bursts of exuberance -- has prompted speculation that he abuses alcohol or drugs, or is on heavy medication. At one event promoting religious diversity, he slurred his language, pausing at length as he fumbled for the words for Judaism and Hinduism.
 HE has denied the rumors about drugs and alcohol use, though it has not helped that he has taken short, unexplained leaves of absence.
 Mr. Chernovetsky, who is married with two children, was elected in 2006 after supporting the Orange Revolution, and became known for courting retired people by strolling neighborhoods and handing out flour and other food.
 There are three major political factions in Ukraine, led by President Viktor A. Yushchenko, Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko and Viktor F. Yanukovich, a former prime minister. Mr. Chernovetsky, an independent, has at times built alliances with each. All three factions covet the mayor's office but fear that removing Mr. Chernovetsky through something akin to impeachment would allow a rival's candidate to take over.
 In 2008, the Parliament, led by Ms. Tymoshenko, tried to unseat Mr. Chernovetsky by calling a special election. He won, after his opponents could not unify around a candidate and split the vote. He has since suggested that he might run for president.
 His rivals have not let up, assailing him for supposedly mistreating city workers, bungling real estate projects and allowing utilities and other services to deteriorate. At one point, the subway system was threatened with closing because it was running out of money.
 Above all, they said, his behavior makes Kiev look ridiculous.
 At a protest in front of City Hall in the spring, Dr. Larisa Kanarovska, head of a doctors' union, led hundreds of workers in calling for the mayor's ouster. She recalled that when she met with him to describe troubles at hospitals and clinics, including the city's failure to pay salaries, he responded harshly.
 ''He called us money-grubbing wolves, thieves and bandits,'' Dr. Kanarovska said.
 SHE said she had an inkling of why he did not like the doctors' union. ''We have diagnosed him as having some sort of mental illness,'' she said.
 Mr. Chernovetsky acknowledged that such attacks were unpleasant, but he said that he relied on his faith to bolster him, reading the Bible daily. He said he attends a Ukrainian Orthodox Church, though he said he was attracted to Protestantism. 
 The interview with Mr. Chernovetsky was over, though not before a little small talk. He imparted the secret of his full head of hair, explaining that the key was to rub it aggressively with a towel after a daily shower.
 Then he said goodbye with a few parting words.
 ''I am not going to abandon politics,'' he said. ''I am not crazy. The pressure on me, that is the thing that is crazy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); HISTORIC SITES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



381 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: RETAILERS SEE SLOWING SALES IN KEY SEASON

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Halfway through the back-to-school shopping season, retail professionals are predicting the worst performance for stores in more than a decade, yet another sign that consumers are clinging to every dollar.
 Fears about the job market have resulted in sluggish customer traffic over the last few weeks, spurring the gloomy sales projections. Parents who do shop are aggressively trading down, informing status-conscious teenagers that notebooks from the dollar store or shirts from Costco will have to do this year.
 Stock analysts at Citigroup are predicting a decline in back-to-school sales for the first time since they began tracking the figures in 1995. They estimate August and September sales at stores open for at least a year -- known as same-store sales -- will fall 3 to 4 percent, compared with an increase of nearly 1 percent in the same period last year. 
 The National Retail Federation, an industry group, expects the average family with school-age children to spend nearly 8 percent less this year than last. And ShopperTrak, a research company, predicted customer traffic would be down 10 percent from a year ago. 
 ''This is going to be the worst back-to-school season in many, many years,'' said Craig F. Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retailing consultant firm.
 Many analysts consider the season to begin in mid-July; sales numbers for that month are out already, and they were poor. Same-stores sales fell 5 percent compared with last year, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group. Figures out this week from the government showed that overall retail sales in July were down 8.3 percent from the same month last year.
 Back-to-school sales in July were hurt because many states moved their sales tax holidays out of July and into August. This month, retail sales should get a lift from those tax holidays. Still, the council expects August same-store sales to decline 3.5 to 4 percent compared with last year.
 A report this week by IBISWorld, a research company, found that back-to-school spending would fall in nearly every category compared with last year: clothing, down 5.4 percent; footwear, down 4.4 percent; and electronics, down 1.8 percent. Sales of traditional school supplies like notebooks and pencils are expected to be about the same as last year. 
 Retailers typically do some of their biggest business during the back-to-school shopping period, also considered to be an early predictor of the holiday shopping season. If the forecasts turn out to be right, this could be another tough holiday period.
 This year's frugality may hark back to an earlier age, but consumers are using up-to-the-minute tools in their determination to save money. They are scouring the Internet for coupons. They are planning their shopping trips around e-mail alerts that tip them to bargains.
 One mother, Clarissa Nassar, signed up for alerts about sales on a Web site called Shop It To Me. When she saw that her daughter's favorite brand, Baby Phat, was on sale at Macy's, she promptly drove to the department store to shop for school clothes. 
 ''I got an alert for the cutest tie-dye pink top,'' said Ms. Nassar, a mother of two, Mikayla, 7, and Joseph, 3, in Johnstown, N.Y. ''Originally it was $36 and I got it for $9.75.'' 
 Executives at Google said Internet searches for back-to-school bargains had soared this year. Searches for coupons are up 40 percent over last year and searches for buy-one-get-one-free deals are up 30 percent. 
 Dan Schock, head of Google's East Coast retail team, which helps retailers advertise online, said the race to find free items and deals on the Web began earlier this year than last year. ''They're comparison shopping,'' he said.
 That has spurred a digital-driven flight to low-price retailers. Google searches for the terms ''Wal-Mart'' and ''school supplies'' are up 160 percent compared with a year ago. And searches for Aeropostale, the value-priced teenage apparel chain, are up 50 percent year-over-year. 
 Aeropostale and Wal-Mart, the discount chain, are among teenagers' go-to stores this season, while more expensive stores -- like Hollister and Abercrombie & Fitch -- are not, according to a survey of students ages 12 to 17 by Majestic Research.
 ''Rather than get one top at a Hollister, they can get two or three at Aeropostale,'' said Brian J. Tunick, a retail analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities. 
 Several back-to-school surveys found that shoppers plan to forgo name brands altogether. 
 Staples, the office supply chain, is counting on that. The retailer not only lowered prices on 250 items on many back-to-school lists, it is also trying to win shoppers with Staples-brand school supplies, which typically cost less than national brands. 
 ''It gives us an advantage even over Wal-Mart in terms of sourcing low-cost product,'' said Michael A. Miles Jr., president and chief operating officer of Staples. ''This year with the economy being what it is, it's all about value.'' 
 With parents putting their dollars toward the supplies on their children's school lists rather than toward another pair of jeans, apparel and footwear sales are expected to suffer most this season, according to a study by the NPD Group, the retailing consultant firm. 
 Indeed, Crayola's president and chief executive, Mike Perry, said the company was not experiencing the same pain as other manufacturers. After all, school lists typically include crayons. ''People are going to have to get the products that the kids need for school,'' Mr. Perry said.
 Sales of consumer electronics, including computers, cellphones and calculators, are likely to fare better than many other categories this year. IBISWorld said that over the next several years, the sector was likely to become the No. 1 back-to-school spending category, overtaking clothing.
 Some retailers are already trying to cash in on the trend. Wal-Mart, for one, has been working with brands including Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Toshiba to widen its variety of computers and sell them at rock-bottom prices. 
 On Sunday, Wal-Mart will begin selling a new selection of low-price laptops, including a 17-inch Toshiba model for $348. 
 At Best Buy, college dorm accessories like microwaves and printers are on offer for less than $100. The electronics chain is also selling an exclusive line of laptops for college students.
 To attract customers, office supply stores are selling scissors and glue sticks for pennies, as they have in the past. And many stores have formed partnerships to offer consumers more savings. OfficeMax and Payless ShoeSource are offering discounts to each other's customers. Retailers like Sears and J. C. Penney are trying to attract students with interactive Web sites about school fashion and dormitory decor. 
 With consumers in such a penurious mood this year, retailers are learning that they can skip aggressive online marketing only at their peril. Joanne Fraembs, a mother of two in Wantagh, N.Y., put it: ''I don't go into stores that don't send the e-mails.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers at an Aeropostale in New Jersey. A survey showed that Aeropostale is a store on teenagers' go-to lists this season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SALES TAX (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



382 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GREENWICH VILLAGE JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: A Club's Closing: It's the Old Issue of Neighbors vs. Noise

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

 BODY:
Until early April, the Beatrice Inn was a busy nightclub in the basement of a residential building on quiet, cobbled West 12th Street in Manhattan. Since then, the club -- a hangout for fashion, music and film insiders -- has been silent: raided and shut down by the city, according to the official complaint, for overcrowding and ''inadequate means of egress.'' Shortly after, an angry message was posted on the front of the club: ''The neighborhood wants this place closed permanently stay closed!!''
 The closing followed a raft of community complaints dating 2007, said Jason Post, a spokesman for the Mayor's Office of Special Enforcement, which was responsible for the raid. 
 Marilyn McDermott, 47, an executive assistant for a real estate company who lives directly above the Beatrice Inn, said she called 311, the city's telephone number for complaints, five times a week until it closed. She grew to loathe the song ''Stuck in the Middle With You,'' by Stealers Wheel, a favorite at the nightclub that she could hear despite earplugs, a soothing CD, ''Sounds of the Ocean,'' and owners' efforts to soundproof her apartment.
 ''I know everyone loved this place,'' she said, ''and it was great for the city and full of celebrities, but open it someplace else, not in a residential neighborhood.'' United in their opposition to the noise, about 12 neighbors banded together to campaign against the club, said Steven Piersanti, 49, an architect who lives across the street. 
 They have won, for now: The club remains closed, Mr. Post said, and unaddressed problems include low ceilings, inadequate exits and staircases, and the lack of a sprinkler system and required permits. Mr. Piersanti estimated that such changes would cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, and city records show that the club owes $23,000 in fines and that the liquor license is up for renewal at the beginning of 2010. 
 The management at the Beatrice Inn would not comment, but one of the owners, Paul Sevigny, plans to open a new club and restaurant in SoHo, away from residential areas, said people involved in the discussions. In the meantime, ''Free the Beatrice'' T-shirts are being distributed at parties, and people who have attended meetings on the club's future say there are still plans to make the necessary amendments and reopen on 12th Street.
 ''I'm going to miss it,'' said Michael Herman, 31, a regular patron who was outside the bar on the night that inspectors turned the lights up and the music off. ''You couldn't buy your way in, so it was kind of the last place that creative people could get together.''
 Noise is hardly a new problem in a city where thousands of people -- lovers of partying and lovers of peace and quiet alike -- are packed into every square mile. But complaints have spiked in recent years, especially as the real estate boom has brought ''an inward migration of older, wealthier people to the cities, especially to interesting cultural centers,'' said Ken Patton, the head of the New York UniversitySchack Institute of Real Estate. ''Manhattan is the mother of those,'' he added.
 Leonard Steinberg, a managing director at Prudential Douglas Elliman, a real estate company, said some newcomers fell in love with their apartments or neighborhoods ''and didn't think about the environment, the bars and clubs.'' Later, Mr. Steinberg said, many have called him to say they wanted to move.
 Noise has come to dominate complaints to 311 since 2007, according to statistics on the NYC.gov Web site. ''Last year 311 fielded over 300,000 noise complaints -- the top complaint,'' said John Feinblatt, the mayor's criminal justice coordinator, when asked about relations between nightclubs and residents.
 Many club and bar owners say the city favors those, like the West 12th Street residents, who seek a quiet night. And, they say, their cultural and economic contribution to the city is ignored: over $700 million in taxes and 95,500 jobs, according to a 2004 study by Audience Research and Analysis for the New York Nightlife Association -- the most recent figures available. 
 ''Nightclubs are now seen as nuisances,'' said Steve Lewis, a nightclub designer and a founder of the Nightlife Preservation Community, a group started this year. ''The attitude is that if clubs just went away, everybody could have a quiet life.''
 One club owner, in the East Village, said 7 percent of his gross yearly revenue now went to fines, legal fees and lost revenue from raids. Another, in Chelsea, said that he expected to spend over $100,000 on such matters this year, and that one more raid would mean bankruptcy. A third, in the West Village, said he had been the victim of spurious 311 calls that had led to actions from the city.
 For their part, police officials say they are trying to decrease the acrimony. Robert F. Messner, an assistant commissioner in the Police Department's civil enforcement unit, said tensions had eased under a new system in which a dedicated senior officer in each of the eight patrol boroughs deals with club owners' issues. Robert Bookman, a partner at Pesetsky & Bookman, a law firm that specializes in representing licensed establishments, said the improved communication had helped reduce the number of raids and shutdowns this year.
 Marilyn Dorato, the director of the Greenwich Village Block Associations, who helped residents near the Beatrice Inn with their campaign, had a suggestion for compromise that helped on her own block: ''We used to have a lot of noise problems with the Waverly Inn, and that is why my neighbor bought it.'' 
 The neighbor, the Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter, enclosed the restaurant's garden, and it now closes at 12:45 a.m. at the latest, said Ms. Dorato, a 37-year resident of the area. 
 ''If there's a Graydon Carter living near the Beatrice Inn who wants to buy it, that would be a great solution,'' she said. ''I recommend it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marilyn McDermott, who lives above the Beatrice Inn, said she complained to the city about noise five times a week until it was shut down in April. At left, a sentiment of the club's supporters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MAYORS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (62%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



383 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: J.C. Penney Reports a Narrower Quarterly Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The department store chain J. C. Penney Company posted a narrower quarterly loss on Friday, mostly because of cost-cutting moves, but the results beat Wall Street expectations. 
 The retailer also raised its profit outlook.
 The company, based in Plano, Tex., said it lost $1 million, or break-even per share, in the quarter. That compared with a profit of $117 million, or 52 cents a share, in the period a year ago. 
 Revenue in the period, which ended Aug. 1 and was the second quarter of the company's fiscal year, was $3.94 billion, down from $4.28 billion. 
 Analysts expected a loss of a penny a share on $3.94 billion in revenue.
 Sales at stores open at least a year fell 9.5 percent for the period. The chief executive, Myron E. Ullman III, called the consumer climate ''very difficult'' but said in a statement that the company's strong financial position had let it invest in several initiatives, including opening its first Manhattan store last month.
 Penney and other department store chains have faced increasing challenges as shoppers worry about job security, declining home prices and tight credit. While the stock market has rallied and there are signs of stabilization in the economy, business remains weak.
 Also like other retailers, Penney has been cutting inventory in response. It also has been trying to expand its assortment of trendy, affordable labels.
 For the third quarter, Penney expects same-store sales to decline 5 to 7 percent and total sales to drop 3 to 5 percent. For the full year, Penney said that same-store sales should fall 7 to 7.5 percent. Total sales should decline in the range of 5.5 to 6 percent.
 Shares of Penney fell $2.05, or 6 percent, to $31.29 a share. 
 Another clothing retailer, Abercrombie & Fitch, said Friday that it lost money in the second quarter as sales slumped amid the recession and it began closing its Ruehl clothing and accessories stores.
 Losses for the quarter ended Aug. 1 totaled $26.7 million, or 30 cents a share. That compares with profit of $77.8 million, or 87 cents a share, a year ago.
 Quarterly results included $24.4 million in charges for the Ruehl closing and store asset impairment charges.
 Sales dropped 23 percent, to $648.5 million.
 The company has suffered from keeping prices relatively high as its competitors focused on value amid the recession. The company recently started planning more sales and offering lower entry-level prices, but that has not stemmed its sales slump.
 The company operates its namesake storesas well as Abercrombie, its children's apparel brand; the surf-themed Hollister; and an intimate apparel store, Gilly Hicks. It said sales dropped 23 percent, to $648.5 million, from $845.8 million a year ago.
 Sales in stores open at least one year dropped 30 percent. Same-store sales fell 27 percent at namesake stores, 29 percent at its children's stores, 33 percent at Hollister and 31 percent at Ruehl.
 The company slashed marketing, general and administrative costs during the quarter, down 19 percent to $88.7 million, from $109 million last year, including $600,000 in severance charges related to Ruehl.
 The closing of Ruehl, which focused on handbags and other accessories and aimed at older shoppers, should be complete by the end of the fiscal year.
 The company expects the closing will cost $65 million, including the $23.6 million incurred in the second quarter.
 Stock in Abercrombie & Fitch, which is based in New Albany, Ohio, rose $1.20 to $34.16 a share. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A J.C. Penney's employee, Kim Bauer, center, helping Carletta King, left, and her mother, Leila Frazier, in Aurora, Colo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LINGERIE (72%); HOME PRICES (66%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (64%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (62%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (85%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); ANF (NYSE) (85%); AFT (FRA) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



384 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Idle Iraqi Date Farms Show Decline of Economy

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Mohammed Hussein contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Late July and early August is date harvesting season in Iraq, when within the span of a few weeks the desert sun turns hard green spheres into tender, golden brown fruit prized for its sweetness.
 But here in Iraq, one of the places where agriculture was developed more than 7,000 years ago, there are increasing doubts about whether it makes much sense to grow dates -- or much of anything for that matter. 
 As recently as the 1980s, Iraq was self-sufficient in producing wheat, rice, fruits, vegetables, and sheep and poultry products. Its industrial sector exported textiles and leather goods, including purses and shoes, as well as steel and cement. But wars, sanctions, poor management, international competition and disinvestment have left each industry a shadow of its former self. 
 Slowly, Iraq's economy has become based almost entirely on imports and a single commodity.
 ''Ninety-five percent of the government's revenues come from oil,'' said Ghazi al-Kenan, an Iraqi economist. ''And while they are trying to attract investment in the private sector, Iraq finds itself in very difficult circumstances -- without sufficient electricity, machinery and a drought.''
 The agricultural industry has been particularly damaged during the past few years, a situation perhaps nowhere more apparent than in the country's once bountiful date orchards. Date palms have been left to die for lack of water, and fungi and pests have ruined thousands of tons of fruit because the country has only three crop-dusting airplanes and three qualified pilots. American military approval is still needed to fly.
 Even the wealthiest and most influential date farmers are struggling. Faraoun Ahmed Hussain, the 62-year-old scion of a date-growing family who serves as the head of the government agency that oversees Iraq's date production, said his family's 62 acres in south Baghdad have been producing at the lowest level in memory.
 ''I could put more money into it, but the situation does not encourage it,'' he said. ''Under normal circumstances, the owner of such property would be a very wealthy man.''
 Iraq, which once produced three-quarters of the world's dates and grew 629 different varieties, is now an also-ran, falling behind Egypt, Iran and Saudi Arabia. Last year, the country produced 281,000 tons, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, about half the level of the mid-1980s. 
 The number of Iraq's date palms has fallen, too, to fewer than nine million from 33 million in the 1950s, according to the government. Likewise, the number of date processing factories is down to six today, from 150 before the American-led invasion in 2003. Iraqi dates are now packaged in the United Arab Emirates -- 865 miles away. 
 Iraqi and American officials say the declining fortunes in date production and other seasonal agricultural work have fed the insurgency with desperate, out-of-work young men. 
 The decline, Iraqi government officials say, has also led to both public health and environmental degradation. As growers have abandoned farms, the orchards that had once formed a lush green ring around Baghdad have shrunk, causing more frequent sandstorms in the capital this summer and higher rates of asthma and other respiratory illnesses.
 Still, dates remain a staple in Iraq, valued for their ability to stay fresh without refrigeration, as a source of nutrition, and for uses as varied as making alcohol and desserts and feeding farm animals. They are also an inexpensive sugar substitute. 
 As the head of a partnership that includes his 12 brothers and 6 sisters, Dr. Hussain is the master of a once prosperous, now unkempt orchard on the banks of the Tigris River in the Dora neighborhood. On a blazing hot summer morning recently, he gave a tour. The story of the orchard, which his family has owned since 1910, has been one of slow decline. 
 Because the amount of money he receives for his crop from the Trade Ministry -- the agency that buys most farm products in Iraq -- is sometimes less than the cost of production, he says he no longer invests much in the farm.
 Each year, even the most productive trees provide less. In normal times, each palm might produce 130 to 175 pounds of fruit a year. 
 Last year, each tree produced just about 30 pounds. This season, Dr. Hussain is hoping to rebound to 90 pounds per tree.
 Many of the orchard's 4,000 palms, which can live 120 years, are clearly unhealthy. A fair number have either brown fronds or a white fungus that resembles cobwebs. 
 Half of the orchard is irrigated by well water, the other half by the Tigris. But because of a drought, now in its second year, farmers have been ordered to limit irrigation to twice a month instead of once or twice a week. 
 Fruit trees -- orange, grapefruit and pomegranate -- planted beneath the palms, look to be nearly dying of thirst. The ground is bone dry and dusty.
 Even some of the palms, which need very little water, are withering. Water salinity has also become a vexing problem.
 Dr. Hussain pointed to some of the healthier palms.
 ''These trees are 40 years old, and I have some emotion, some love for them, because I planted them,'' he said. ''I've watched them grow.'' 
 Even here, there are signs of Iraq's war: Accompanying Dr. Hussain are five bodyguards, at least one of whom is armed. 
 And stationed at the edge of Dr. Hussain's orchard is a 50-member Kurdish pesh merga military unit. They are protecting the home of Jalal Talabani, Iraq's president, who is Kurdish and lives across the river from the orchard. 
 Dr. Hussain said that despite the instability brought by the war, Iraq's date industry could recover if the Trade Ministry would increase payments to farmers. 
 And if Iraq's date orchards can be restored to their former glory, he said, the rest of Iraqi agriculture might be able to similarly rebound. 
 The Trade Ministry, however, has said that given continuing depressed international prices for oil -- Iraq's lone dependable export -- it cannot afford to raise payments to farmers.
 None of Dr. Hussain's children want to have anything to do with the family's date orchard. His son is a pharmacist, his eldest daughter an engineer. The youngest daughter is a science student, but has no interest in agriculture. 
 Dr. Hussain said the date farm would almost certainly die with him.
 ''It will be sold,'' he said shrugging. ''It will be painful for me to do that, but I accomplished my duty for my family and for my tradition. There is nothing else to be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Iraqi worker collected dates at a Baghdad orchard on Friday. Date farming faces hard times.(A1)
In July, an Iraqi worker shook sand off dates not yet ripe for harvesting at an orchard in Baghdad. The war and other factors have depressed date production.
 Dates were placed in crates on Friday at the Baghdad orchard. Right, a worker from Najaf carried a basket for harvesting. Iraq, whose date production is about half of what it was in the mid-1980s, now depends increasingly on oil for government revenue.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISC FRUIT FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CROP & SOIL SERVICES (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); DROUGHT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); MEATS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POULTRY (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); APPROVALS (64%); DIVESTITURES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



385 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Spanish TV Network Picks Executive as Next President

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Univision, the nation's most-watched Spanish language television network, named a new chief Friday after its longtime president said he would retire at the end of the year. 
 The management changes were announced as Univision accelerated its plans to produce more original shows, eight months after settling a lengthy lawsuit with its primary supplier of prime-time programs.
Univision Communications, which operates the network and which is owned by a consortium of private equity firms, said that the president, Ray Rodriguez, would be succeeded by Cesar Conde, 35, the company's chief strategy officer.
 Univision declined interview requests Friday. Mr. Rodriguez, who has overseen Univision for 17 years, told employees in a memorandum that the network had popularized Hispanic media in the United States.
 ''You have brought Spanish speakers and their interests to the forefront of American culture and have created programming and information services to serve our burgeoning community, which for so long had been overlooked,'' he wrote in the e-mail message.
 Univision dominates the Spanish-language television marketplace in the United States, where there are about 12.6 million Hispanic television households. 
 While English-language broadcasters have seen audiences shrink as viewers spend more time watching cable television, ratings for programs in Spanish are holding steady and in some cases growing. Univision's local stations in Los Angeles and New York are the top-rated in either language in the country.
 Last week in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic that networks in the United States covet, Univision drew a higher rating than ABC in prime time, with about 1.6 million viewers. It regularly tops other networks among 18- to 34-year-old viewers, according to Nielsen ratings.
 Univision Communications also moved Friday to consolidate the oversight of its local television and radio stations under Joe Uva, its chief executive. The company was publicly traded until 2007, when it was acquired by private investors in a $12.3 billion deal. Univision is now saddled with about $10 billion in debt. 
 Mr. Uva said in a memorandum on Friday that Univision's mission was to become ''the No. 1 broadcast network in the United States, regardless of language, within five years.'' 
 The company has also sought to increase its share of advertiser budgets. It has not been immune to the advertising cuts caused by the recession. In March it laid off 300 employees, about 7 percent of its work force.
 Mr. Conde will be responsible for the programming on Univision, which is best known for telenovelas, the serialized dramas that are popular among Hispanic viewers. 
 Most of those programs are licensed to Univision by Televisa, a Mexican media company that sued Univision four years ago, accusing it of breaching a revenue-sharing contract. The suit was settled in January, and Televisa reportedly received free advertising time and $25 million. Univision continues to distribute Televisa's hit shows in the United States, but it intends to create more of its own programming.
 Mr. Conde was an investment banker before he joined Univision in 2002. He returned to the company in 2003 after a year as a White House fellow. He has worked on corporate development, sales and digital initiatives at Univision. In his new position, he will also oversee its two other television properties, the over-the-air TeleFutura network and the cable channel Galavision. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Under Cesar Conde, 35, Univision is to create more shows.
 Don Francisco hosts ''Sabado Gigante,'' or ''Giant Saturday,'' on Univision, the dominant Spanish network in the United States.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVISION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); BUDGETS (75%); LITIGATION (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%)

PERSON: CESAR CONDE (79%); JOE UVA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



386 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Shares Close Lower Amid Some Profit-Taking

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street tumbled by the most since early July on Friday as profit-taking investors worried that stock markets had raced too far ahead of the struggling real economy.
 Stocks soared on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve offered a more optimistic reading on the economy. But on Friday they gave back much of those gains as a survey of consumer attitudes showed that people were getting more pessimistic about the job market and the overall economy. And a new report on consumer prices showing that inflation remained under control also offered a reminder that with so much weakness in the economy, many businesses simply did not have the ability to raise prices. 
 After cutting its losses in the final hour, the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 9,321.40, down 76.79 points, or 0.8 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.9 percent. The index fell modestly this week after four weeks of gains. The Nasdaq composite index was off by 1.2 percent as technology shares weakened. 
 ''You're seeing the reality that maybe it's gone too far too fast,'' said Larry Adam, chief market strategist at Deutsche Bank. ''It's just a necessary pullback.''
 Shares of basic-materials companies and industrial producers declined as the price of oil fell by $3.01, to $67.51 a barrel.
 The North Carolina-based regional bank BB&T rose nearly 9 percent after reports said it would be stepping in to take over deposits of the struggling Colonial BancGroup, which warned in a regulatory filing that there was ''substantial doubt'' about its future. The BB&T takeover of Colonial was confirmed in an announcement by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on Friday evening. 
 Bank of America and Citigroup also rose while most other big financial firms and regional banks slipped.
 Some analysts said the market was bumping against a ceiling as investors tried to decide whether stock prices would continue higher or peel back some of their gains in a late summer slump.
 The S.& P. 500 crossed 1,000 points early last week, hitting that benchmark for the first time since last autumn. But it has stagnated since then, swinging above and below the four-digit threshold.
 ''We just hit a brick wall,'' said Todd Salamone, senior vice president for research at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''There's been a huge bull-bear fight going on there. You have poor economic data, and before you know it you're back below it.''
 A muted report on consumer confidence from Reuters and the University of Michigan underscored concerns that battered consumers were not ready to lead the United States out of recession. The consumer confidence index fell to 63.2 in August, its lowest level since March, as consumers said their current economic situation deteriorated and their expectations worsened.
 The lower consumer confidence numbers came one day after the government reported that retail spending had fallen 0.1 percent in July as people spent less on electronics, furniture, books and hobbies. People's wealth has been devastated by declines in the housing and stock markets, and Americans are now trying to save more money to rebuild their finances and guard against layoffs and wage cuts.
 Interest rates declined for a second straight day. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 100 15/32, and the yield fell to 3.57 percent from 3.59 percent late Thursday.
 European shares were also lower. The FTSE 100 index in London declined 41.49 points, or 0.87 percent, to 4,713.97, while the DAX in Frankfurt dropped 92 points, or 1.7 percent, to 5,309.11. The CAC-40 in Paris fell 29.12 points, or 0.83 percent, to 3,495.27.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EMPLOYMENT (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (65%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); COLONIAL BANCGROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



387 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BELIEFS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: In Debate Over Health Policy, Some Words Are Seldom Spoken

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
What has bioethics contributed to the current national debate over health care reform? The question was put to Daniel Callahan in an interview this week. 
 Mr. Callahan, a philosopher, has been there from the beginning. In 1969, along with Dr. Willard Gaylin, a psychiatrist, he founded the Institute of Society, Ethics and the Life Sciences, now the Hastings Center. (This writer worked there for part of the 1970s.) Two years later, the Kennedy Institute of Ethics was founded at Georgetown University, and a host of similar interdisciplinary institutions followed. 
 In the early years, broad changes in health care of the sort now roiling the United States were not on the bioethics agenda. To be sure, there was a sense that the new ethical questions posed by dramatic advances in biology and medicine were fundamental to the future of humankind; yet these questions were usually framed in terms of choices facing individual patients, physicians and researchers: 
 Were terminally ill patients owed the full truth about their condition? What constituted genuinely informed consent for human experimentation? Who should be screened for genetic conditions, and how should they be counseled? When could patients refuse life-sustaining medical care -- and what if they could not decide for themselves? Should organ donors be paid? What rewards and penalties could governments use to slow population growth? What principles should govern the allocation of scarce medical resources like (at that time) dialysis machines? 
 Those last three questions obviously pointed toward issues of social policy, scarcity and equity, and scholars in the field soon recognized that few issues in bioethics could be isolated from the larger framework of how health care was delivered and who had access to it. 
 The publication in 1971 of ''A Theory of Justice'',by the political philosopher John Rawls, had a major impact on the contribution of bioethics to the health care debate, Mr. Callahan said. The ensuing discussion made justice one of the governing themes in bioethical discourse, and most of that discussion ended up criticizing the current unequal access of Americans to health care. 
 Bioethicists have repeatedly tried and generally failed, he added, to initiate a serious discussion of rationing in health care. ''It is a word you can't use,'' he said. ''Too offensive.'' 
 And yet, he pointed out, whenever demand for some resource outstrips supply, as seems to be the case for quality medical care, some kind of rationing, whether by official policy or by economic advantage, starts to operate. 
 Mr. Callahan quickly sketched three levels of the current debate on health care overhaul. Bioethicists are ''the only ones,'' he said, who have addressed the third, most fundamental level, although not to the degree that he would have liked. 
 The first level is ''organizational and managerial,'' he said, searching for ways to achieve the linked goals of reducing health care costs, improving quality and extending access. He has an article in the July 29 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine examining the most popular proposals for controlling health care costs: more preventive care, better information technology, research on the comparative effectiveness of treatments and more consumer choice.
 However beneficial these reforms, Mr. Callahan argued that in the present cultural and economic environment, they will still fall far short of what is needed to make the system sustainable. 
 The second level of the health care debate that Mr. Callahan sketched was ''ideological'': government versus market as a matter of principle, not demonstrable results. Three years ago, he and Angela A. Wasunna published ''Medicine and the Market'' (Johns Hopkins University Press). Brimming with findings from more than two dozen nations, the book makes a formidable case that the frequent invocation of market solutions rests much more on ideology than on empirical outcomes. 
 The third level, which Mr. Callahan laments as largely lacking, is an examination of the fundamental dimensions of health care. ''How do we think about the ultimate goals of the health care system and even about health itself?'' he said. 
 Existing medical care, he said, is ''open-ended, progress-oriented and technology dependent.'' Are we doomed, he wondered, to a relentless battle against death in which ''nothing will ever count as success''? Won't ''aging societies, expensive technologies and rising expectations about the benefits of medicine'' add up to ''an impossible cost situation''? 
 ''We don't have a debate at that level -- and we need to,'' he said. 
 But what is the alternative? Ever since Mr. Callahan began exploring such themes in books like ''Setting Limits'' (1987), ''What Kind of Life'' (1990), ''The Troubled Dream of Life'' (1993) and ''False Hopes'' (1998) -- all published by Simon & Schuster -- he has been unjustly accused of favoring something like Sarah Palin's imagined ''death panels.'' In fact, he has been a vocal critic of doctor-assisted suicide and other steps toward euthanasia. 
 Still, is there a way to ''cool our aspirations,'' as he puts it, and gain ''a more finite view of what health care is about'' without somehow institutionalizing that bureaucratically? Mr. Callahan says he is trying to address such questions in a new book, ''Taming the Beloved Beast: How Medical Technology Costs Are Destroying Our Health Care System,'' to be published soon by Princeton University Press. 
 Meanwhile, he suggests that the United States might learn something from Europe, where government budget caps on health care, price controls and far less news media frenzy about medical breakthroughs combine with widespread deference to a more modest view in the medical profession about what constitutes appropriate treatments. 
 Solutions, he proposes, will involve an interplay between a ''well-managed government program'' and an ''inner spiritual conversion.'' 
 Mr. Callahan, 79, had just returned from the hospital himself. Days earlier, he had undergone a life-saving seven-hour heart procedure. He chuckled at the idea that when the emergency arose, lightheaded and knowing his life could be in danger, he might have exercised consumer choice and ''shopped around'' for a better deal than the medical center his cardiologist recommended. 
 And at this point, of course, he could only guess at the total cost of his hospitalization -- bigger than a breadbasket, let's say, and less than $100,000. ''As I was in the hospital,'' he said, ''I thought a lot about this.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); BIOETHICS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (78%); PATIENT CONSENT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); ORGAN DONATION (67%); GENETIC SCREENING (67%); POPULATION GROWTH (65%); DIALYSIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HASTINGS CENTER (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



388 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Getting Smart on Crime

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
After decades of supercharged incarceration rates, our bloated prison system is straining under its own weight, and policy makers are finally being forced to deal with the need to shrink it. 
 According to a study last year by The Pew Center on the States entitled ''One in 100: Behind bars in America 2008,'' the prison population of the United States has nearly quadrupled over the last 25 years while the nation's population has grown by less than a third.
 We now have more inmates per capita than any of the 36 European countries with the largest inmate populations, and our total number of inmates is more than all the inmates in those countries combined. 
 This comes at a cost. According to a report published last month by the Vera Institute of Justice, an independent, nonprofit research group, $1 in every $15 from states' general funds is now spent on corrections. That doesn't work in a recession. 
 Much of the rise in the prison population was because of draconian mandatory sentencing laws that are illogical -- sociologically and economically.
 On the sociological side, as the criminal justice expert Joel Dvoskin of the University of Arizona explained to me, data overwhelmingly support the idea that locking up low-risk, nonviolent offenders makes them worse, not better.
 A study from a decade ago that was published in the journal American Psychologist put it this way: ''Department of corrections data show that about a fourth of those initially imprisoned for nonviolent crimes are sentenced a second time for committing a violent offense. Whatever else it reflects, this pattern highlights the possibility that prison serves to transmit violent habits and values rather than to reduce them.''
 On the economic side, putting nonviolent drug offenders in rehab is cheaper than putting them in prison. A 2006 U.C.L.A. study found that California's Substance Abuse and Crime Prevention Act of 2000, which allowed nonviolent drug possession offenders to go to rehab instead of prison, saved taxpayers nearly $2.50 for every $1 invested in the program. (Unfortunately, funding for the program has been gutted.)
 Put them in prison and make them worse criminals, or put them in rehab, possibly make them better, and save some money. Sounds like a no-brainer.
 There are encouraging signs that policy makers are moving in the right direction. Many states have moved to repeal mandatory minimums, and there is a bill in Congress to repeal federal mandatory sentencing. Furthermore, Attorney General Eric Holder seems to be thinking about this issue the right way. Speaking to the American Bar Association last week, he said, ''There is no doubt that we must be tough on crime. But we must also commit ourselves to being smart on crime. ... We need to adopt what works.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: America's Correctional Population: Number of offenders from 1982 to 2007. (Source: the Pew Center on the States, ''One in 31: The Long Reach of American Corrections) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (96%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); CRIME PREVENTION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: VERA INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



389 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Held Steady in July, Allaying Fears About Inflation for Now

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Consumer prices in the United States were steady last month, easing concerns for now that the record deficit and huge new government spending would spur inflation.
 ''It could be a very large long-run problem,'' said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. ''But in the near term, it's not a problem at all.'' 
 The drift in prices suggests that enormous slack remains in the American economy, even as the recession bottoms out and some industries restart production. Retail sales are sluggish, 14.5 million people are unemployed and many factories and other businesses are still running below capacity. 
 The Labor Department reported Friday that its Consumer Price Index was unchanged from June on a seasonally adjusted basis, and that prices this summer were 2.1 percent lower than last July, when soaring oil costs drove gasoline to $4 a gallon and lifted the cost of food and other products. 
 The drop in the last year has been the largest in almost 60 years, occurring as the global economic crisis reduced demand for many goods and services.
 ''The inflation story was nonsense in an environment where you have such wild excess capacity globally,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG, an investment advisory business. ''I think inflation is below 2 percent for the next two years.''
 In another hopeful sign for the economy, the Federal Reserve reported on Friday that industrial production in the United States rose last month, suggesting that manufacturers and major industries were ramping up assembly lines and increasing output. 
 The monthly increase of 0.5 percent was the first since October, when production rebounded after Hurricane Ike as refineries and other industries came back on line. Before that, industrial production had not posted a gain since December 2007, the first month of the recession.
 Economists had expected no change in consumer prices in July. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the so-called core rate of inflation rose 0.1 percent, also in line with expectations.
 ''For all the inflation fear-mongering, the fact remains that prices have, in the near term, declined further rather than turned upwards,'' Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak, said in a research note. ''Such price action comes despite, among other things, a $787 billion stimulus package and $1.75 trillion in asset purchase by the Federal Reserve.''
 Some economists and investors have warned that the government's rescue plans and big stimulus spending will stoke inflation as the economy heals, setting off worries about the strength of the dollar and rising interest rates. 
 But economists said that Friday's numbers showed that inflation remained subdued even as oil prices more than doubled since February and interest rates on government bonds crept back from record lows.
 The Federal Reserve, in its statement on Wednesday after its two-day meeting, said it expected ''that inflation will remain subdued for some time.'' 
 In July, retail prices for food and beverages fell 0.2 percent from a month earlier while gasoline prices declined 0.8 percent. Housing costs fell 0.2 percent for the month, and were down 0.7 percent from last year.
 The cost of clothing actually rose 0.6 percent, mostly because of increases in the price of shoes and women's apparel. 
 Transportation and health care costs edged up 0.2 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina Bunker at Union Square market in New York in July, when food prices fell 0.2 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FOOD PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BONDS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (65%); RETAIL SALES (55%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



390 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Joins Asia's Rapid Climb Out of Recession

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Hong Kong climbed out of recession in the second quarter, joining a rising number of economies in Asia and some in Europe reporting surprisingly buoyant growth as the global downturn moderates. 
 Heavily reliant on trade and banking, the Hong Kong economy lurched into a recession when the financial world convulsed and Western demand for exports plummeted after the Lehman Brothers collapse 11 months ago.
 But Hong Kong's economy grew by a seasonally adjusted 3.3 percent in the second quarter from the first quarter, more than analysts had expected, adding to evidence that the recovery was solidifying in much of Asia, according to data published Friday.
 China, Singapore and South Korea have reported rebounds during the April-to-June period. On Thursday, Germany and France said their economies had grown slightly during the quarter, defying analysts' expectations for a small decline. In the United States, the Federal Reserve made some of its most upbeat comments in months during this past week, saying the economy was leveling out as consumer spending and financial markets stabilized.
 The stabilization also appears to be extending to Japan. Economists polled by Reuters expect statistics due Monday to show that the Japanese economy grew 1 percent in the April-to-June quarter, after contractions of 3.8 percent and 3.6 percent in the previous two quarters.
 Economists at Merrill Lynch commented Friday in a note about the Hong Kong data: ''The strong number underscores one of our key points right now: Postcrisis recoveries in Asia usually surprise on the upside.''
 Asia's relative health is the result of its banks' being relatively untouched by the turmoil in the United States and European financial systems. Aggressive government stimulus measures have also helped pave the way for a more rapid recovery than elsewhere.
 Hong Kong in particular benefits from its links to mainland China, where powerful stimulus measures are bolstering growth, said Enoch Fung, a Hong Kong economist at Goldman Sachs.
 Goldman's economists expect the Chinese economy to grow 9.4 percent this year. The bank expects Hong Kong to contract 3 percent this year, but to grow 5 percent in 2010, Mr. Fung said.
 Still, analysts caution that recovery is likely to remain fragile, as exports, a major growth engine for most Asian economies, will not recover rapidly until the United States and European economies improve.
 ''For a small, open economy like Hong Kong, a sustained and solid recovery still hinges on a visible improvement in the external environment,'' the government said Friday. 
 Although Hong Kong's economy grew in April to June from the first three months of 2009, it shrank 3.8 percent compared with the same period last year. For the full year, the government now expects a contraction of between 3.5 and 4.5 percent, rather than the 5.5 to 6.5 percent it had previously forecast.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The economy appeared surprisingly strong in Hong Kong, where a man, above, attended to his sea cucumbers. At right, the business district in a city that relies on trade and banking.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX HOFFORD/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 JEROME FAVRE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (98%); ASIA (95%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



391 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Hints of a Rebound in Global Trade

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
WORLD trade, which virtually collapsed last fall, appears to be starting to recover. But the rebound so far is small, providing little evidence that the world economy is about to start growing at a good pace. 
 The United States reported this week that its exports in June were up 2.2 percent from the previous month. It was the first time in a year that exports had risen for two consecutive months.
 As the accompanying chart shows, most countries are now seeing an increase in trade, but volumes remain far below those of a year ago. To offset currency swings, all figures are based on the dollar volume of exports, not adjusted for inflation.
 Japan reported that its June exports were up 1.1 percent but were 31 percent below the level of a year ago. Still, that decline was much better than the 42 percent year-over-year decline posted in March.
 In the credit crisis that grew severe last fall, both industrial production and world trade fell off much faster than final sales to consumers. That has set the stage for a recovery in trade even if there is none in consumer demand, as shipments are adjusted to final demand.
 There is a good chance that exports, particularly those directed to the United States, will pick up significantly over the next few months, as many industries restock inventories. That will especially be true for the automobile industry, which was surprised by the success of the ''cash for clunkers'' program.
 Total American imports of cars, trucks and parts over the first half of 2009 were half those of the same period of 2008, when the American economy was already in recession. Not since 1994 had auto-related imports been so low in the first six months of a year.
 China, which is among the first countries to report its trade figures each month, disclosed its July figures this week, showing a 3.7 percent gain on a seasonally adjusted basis. The American share of Chinese exports rose to its highest level since before the recession began, providing a sign that American figures for July will start to show larger gains in imports.
 For now, however, the American trade deficit, which seemed like an overwhelming problem a couple of years ago, appears to be much diminished. The trade deficit in goods other than petroleum was under $20 billion in June, the first time that had happened since January 1999.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Year-Over-Year Change in Value of Exports (Source: National governments, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



392 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Hard To Believe!

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Plainfield, Vt. 

 BODY:
 It was strange to find in this economically stressed, rural region of Vermont, not far from the state capital of Montpelier, a good news story about health care.
 Those who live in the area, no matter what their income, can get high-quality primary care, dental care, prescription drug services and mental health assistance at a price they can afford. All they have to do is call or stop by the Health Center at Plainfield, which is part of a national network of centers that are officially (and clumsily) known as Federally Qualified Health Centers.
 I was somewhat skeptical when Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, told me that these centers (there are 39 sites of various size in the state) had ''essentially solved the problem of primary care'' for local residents. Politicians are in the business of making big claims. Most of the time you don't hold it against them. But you don't take the claims as gospel, either. 
 In this case, the senator's claim seems to be very much on the money. The center at Plainfield is modern and well equipped, spotlessly clean, quiet and efficient. Patients that I spoke with marveled at the friendliness of doctors and staffers and said they never felt intimidated. Appointments are easily made, and if it is necessary to see a physician on the same day, or within 24 hours, that is usually not a problem.
 All types of patients are served at the center, from the well off to the impoverished. There is a sliding scale of fees for patients without insurance. They are charged what they can afford. No one is turned away.
 ''This place is so important,'' said Kathleen Hoyne, who was at the center with her 14-year-old son, Daniel. ''Neither my husband nor I have health insurance through work.'' Daniel, she said, is covered by Vermont's expanded children's health insurance program.
 There are similar health centers across the country serving primarily low-income patients in areas where medical services are scarce. They are a crucial resource, even in those cases where staffing is difficult or other challenges arise. But there are not enough of them.
 What is impressive is how much sense the centers make. They are nonprofit and receive federal support, but they don't require a ton of taxpayer dollars. By focusing intently on primary care and preventive services, they save tremendous amounts of money.
 Given the toxic tone of the current health care debate, it's interesting to note that the centers actually have significant bipartisan support. (President George W. Bush was a strong advocate.) And the Office of Management and Budget has rated them as among the most efficient and effective users of taxpayer money.
 Nearly 10,000 patients are served by the Plainfield center, which is a godsend because there are no other primary care physicians in the vicinity, and very few dentists in private practice will treat poor patients, who usually are covered by Medicaid.
 When you look at the number of people who are served by these health centers nationally and then look at the number still in need of the services, you begin to get a sense of the scope of the crisis in health care in the U.S. The centers currently serve about 20 million people and receive approximately $2 billion a year from the federal government. It is estimated that another 40 million people in medically underserved areas, primarily rural areas and inner cities, need the services a health center would provide.
 Senator Sanders and Representative James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, are sponsoring legislation (as part of the current push for health care reform) that would quadruple the number of centers across the country over the next five years.
 In the areas served by the centers in Vermont, the problem of access to primary care does, in fact, seem to have been solved. The centers not only provide patient care, they offer transportation (often crucial in rural areas), counseling, health education classes and a range of other community services. And still the costs are substantially lower than average for comparable health-related services.
 Twenty miles from Plainfield, at the Northern Counties Dental Center at Hardwick, I ran into a stark example of the difference that proper health care (in this case, dental care) can make. Armando Gelineau, a grizzled, toothless old-timer who has spent much of his life coaching boxing, was leaving the center with his granddaughter, a young woman named Morgan Worden. 
 When Ms. Worden smiled, you couldn't help but notice that her teeth seemed perfect. ''I come here every six months for a checkup and cleaning,'' she said. ''They're very friendly.''
 Mr. Gelineau laughed, flashing his gums. ''They didn't have that in my day,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (57%); MENTAL HEALTH (57%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (90%) VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



393 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seizes Ailing Bank And Sells It To BB&T

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Wall Street's biggest banks may be roaring back to life, but trouble still lurks in corners of the financial industry that remain plagued by a legacy of bad investments. 
 On Friday, Colonial BancGroup, a large lender that rode the excesses of the nation's real estate boom, was seized by federal regulators, making it the largest bank failure of 2009 and one of the most costly since the collapse of IndyMac Bancorp last year.
 Regulators simultaneously brokered a rapid sale of its branches and deposits to BB&T Corporation of North Carolina, a regional bank that has emerged from the financial crisis as one of the industry's strongest players. The failure is expected to cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation about $2.8 billion. 
 Regulators also closed four other small banks on Friday in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona, bringing the total number of bank failures to 77 this year. Banking analysts say that the number of failures could easily reach several hundred in the next 18 months as rising commercial real estate losses take their toll.
 Alabama state regulators officially closed Colonial Friday night. But it had been embattled for months, and its failure was considered imminent. Its balance sheet was saddled with construction and commercial real estate loans, and its financial condition had been rapidly deteriorating. Toward the end, Colonial tried to secure federal bailout money; but those efforts turned up several accounting irregularities that prompted a criminal investigation by the Department of Justice and the Treasury Department.
 The deal ensures that the bank's depositors will not suffer losses, although its stockholders will be wiped out. The F.D.I.C. estimates that its industry-supported insurance fund will be liable for a big portion of Colonial's $25 billion portfolio. 
 The F.D.I.C. will absorb all the losses on a $3 billion pool of the most risky assets, including those believed to be entangled in fraud, according to a person briefed on the pool. Federal regulators will split the losses with BB&T on another $15 billion pool that is largely made up of commercial real estate and construction loans. BB&T will be responsible for losses on the remaining $7 billion worth of assets, which it will own outright.
 Federal regulators have offered similar loss-sharing arrangements to lure prospective buyers for several other seized banks. With the number of bank failures expected to rise, F.D.I.C officials have grown increasingly concerned about protecting the deposit insurance fund. It had been drained to about $13 billion at the end of the first quarter, the latest number available, and some banking experts are worried that the agency might be forced to turn to an emergency credit line from the Treasury Department for short-term funding. 
 That, in turn, could put even more pressure on the banking industry if the F.D.I.C. imposed another costly assessment on banks. ''Banks need that money to rebuild capital so they can lend more,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a financial policy analyst in Washington. 
 Sheila C. Bair, the F.D.I.C. chairwoman, said in a statement that the fund had ample resources and noted that the losses from the Colonial failure were lower than projected. Federal officials said that BB&T paid a healthy premium for the Colonial's deposits, lowering the overall cost to the fund. 
 BB&T's purchase of Colonial may be another indication that the financial markets are healing. Unlike other deals that protected bondholders, Colonial's creditors will probably suffer severe losses. And unlike the F.D.I.C.-brokered deals for IndyMac Bancorp of California and BankUnited of Florida, Colonial was sold to a rival bank. No private equity firms were involved in the deal. 
 For BB&T, based in Winston-Salem, N.C., the takeover will help extend its presence along the Southeast coast into Texas, a fast-growing area that has held up better than other hot housing markets because of its exposure to a booming oil and commodities trade. It will take control of Colonial's 346 branches and $20 billion of deposits in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Nevada and Texas, giving it a total of more than 1,800 locations. Colonial depositors will automatically become BB&T customers, and will continue to be covered by the federal deposit insurance limits. 
 Kelly King, BB&T's chief executive, called the deal ''an exciting growth opportunity'' that will allow it to gain market share with minimal risk to the bank because of its loss-sharing agreement with the government. 
 For Colonial, the collapse represents the end of a roller-coaster run that took off with the real estate boom. Robert E. Lowder founded Colonial in 1981 and stitched together the bank with dozens of acquisitions. 
 Colonial moved from state regulation to federal in 2003, as deregulation gained favor in Washington. But in June 2008, it switched back to being regulated by the Alabama state regulators. 
 In December, the Treasury agreed to invest more than $500 million in the bank, but only if Colonial could raise $300 million in capital from another source. In March, Colonial said investors led by Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corporation had agreed to put up $300 million, but the deal fell apart last month. 
 Mr. Lowder, 67, stepped down as Colonial's chairman and chief executive in June. A few days later, regulators issued a cease-and-desist order demanding that the bank increase its capital and reduce its bad loans. Colonial also said it was facing a Justice Department criminal investigation relating to alleged accounting irregularities in its mortgage warehouse lending division.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A branch in Washington, of BB&T, a big bank that bought Colonial BancGroup on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANK FAILURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%)

COMPANY: BB&T CORP (94%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (72%); COLONIAL BANCGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

TICKER: BBT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



394 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Prepared to Reject Overhaul of Public Authorities

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson is set to reject a sweeping overhaul of the state's hundreds of public authorities that was passed by lawmakers last month but is opposed by the governor's staff and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City.
 The Paterson administration will ask the Assembly to delay sending the bill to the governor's desk, officials said, and will try to devise a new version of the legislation before a special legislative session next month. But the governor and mayor have so many objections to the current bill that it could be difficult to negotiate a new one with the Legislature in just a few weeks. 
 If the governor were to veto the bill, or leave it in limbo, he would be turning aside the most ambitious attempt in decades to overhaul the system, which includes groups ranging from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to the Niagara Falls Bridge Commission, and which has been criticized as functioning as a shadow government with little oversight.
 The Bloomberg administration has argued that the bill would unfairly infringe on the mayor's power and that it contains a provision that would place prominent development projects in New York City at risk. Mr. Bloomberg has no official say in the matter, but he and the governor are on generally good terms, and their staff members have been discussing concerns about the legislation. 
 The governor's office objects to a number of provisions, including one that would require the comptroller to review authority contracts of over $1 million -- a restriction that Mr. Paterson and business groups say will be too time-consuming. They also oppose a provision that would require authorities to record and disclose all contacts with lobbyists because it appears to encompass contacts with officials in other government agencies or authorities. 
 Supporters of the bill argue that the dispute is about power, and that the governor's office and the mayor fear that the bill would diminish their sway over the authorities, which are ostensibly independent. 
 The legislation's main provision would create an independent budget office with an array of powers over state authorities, including the ability to issue subpoenas in investigations and to conduct regular audits. 
 The legislation also makes clear that people who serve on authority boards have a fiduciary responsibility to the authorities and their missions rather than to the mayor, the governor or the elected officials who appointed them. Mr. Bloomberg is especially opposed to that provision.
 The mayor also believes restrictions that would prevent authorities from selling off their land for below fair market value could hamper a number of developments, including a $700 million East Harlem project, which includes 600 housing units for low- and moderate-income families, and the East River Science Park, a $700 million complex in Manhattan that the city hopes will make it a leader in biotechnology. 
 ''We strongly support increasing transparency among public authorities, but this bill is a step backward,'' said Michelle Goldstein, the director of the mayor's Office of State Legislative Affairs. ''The proposed legislation would make authorities less accountable to the public and sharply curtail the city's ability to build affordable housing, create jobs and develop additional community space.'' 
 Peter E. Kauffmann, a spokesman for the governor, said Mr. Paterson wants an overhaul ''implemented in a way that will bring real transparency and accountability to authorities without passing along added costs to taxpayers or stifling job growth through unnecessary delays to critical economic development projects.''
 The measure, adopted by the Senate in the wee hours near the end of its chaotic session last month, is one of the few actions to emerge from Albany this year that have been praised by editorial boards and civic groups. Many of the bill's principles were drawn from a Pataki-era commission on authority reform led by Ira Millstein, a lawyer who is a leading expert on corporate governance. 
 The legislation has been promoted for years by Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who has investigated abuses at the transit authority and the Canal Corporation and, more recently, has scrutinized the financing of Yankee Stadium. 
 Mr. Brodsky said that Mr. Bloomberg's concerns about property sales were a smoke screen because the city could easily award grants to developers instead of selling them land for below the market value. 
 ''Their arguments are bogus,'' he said. ''It's about power; it's not about any particular projects.''
 Mr. Millstein said that ''if the fiduciary issue is what's preventing support, I think that would be a shame.''
 ''The directors of public authorities surely should take into account the views of whomever it is that appointed them,'' he added. ''But thereafter, they must understand that they are fiduciaries for all the constituencies, and particularly the people of the state of New York.''
 Senator Bill Perkins, a Harlem Democrat who was the chief sponsor of the bill in the Senate, said that taxpayers have too often been shortchanged in development deals. 
 ''The whole purpose of this is to make sure that the public gets the best deal,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Bloomberg, with Governor Paterson in June, is concerned that state legislation would infringe on his power and would hurt development projects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGETS (64%); FAMILY (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



395 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Ends Africa Tour Vowing to Stay Involved

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: SANTA MARIA, Cape Verde 

 BODY:
After a grueling seven-nation, 11-day trip, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton wrapped up her Africa tour on Friday by reaffirming her promise to renovate American relations with the continent.
 ''I leave Africa after this remarkable trip even more committed,'' Mrs. Clinton said before leaving Cape Verde. 
 ''I have seen the joy and energy Africans have, evidenced not just by the boogieing, but by the hard work and perseverance,'' she said, referring to a recent comment from her husband, former President Bill Clinton, that she knew how to ''boogie'' with African dancers. 
 ''And we've seen the worst humanity can do to itself,'' she added, presumably referring to Congo, where Mrs. Clinton met victims of a brutal civil war that just does not seem to end.
 Mrs. Clinton seemed satisfied that she had accomplished her mission: strengthening American relations with crucial allies on the continent, like Nigeria and South Africa, and sending a message of ''tough love,'' as she called it, to nations like Kenya and Congo. 
 Over all, she said, the United States wants to work more closely with African nations as a partner, not simply as a patron or dispenser of aid. In exchange, she said, African leaders must deliver democracy and good government. 
 Mrs. Clinton vowed to stay on top of Africa, even after she gets back to Washington, closely monitoring the issues she addressed on her tour. She also pointed to Cape Verde, a set of palm-studded islands best known for their beaches and enormous tourist hotels, as an example of what good leadership can do.
 ''This is possible,'' she said. ''You create not just economic growth but a sense of human dignity and possibility.''
 Kenya. South Africa. Angola. Congo. Nigeria. Liberia. And finally Cape Verde. Mrs. Clinton saw with her own eyes some of Africa's most promising countries -- and some of its most troubled ones. In Kenya, she pushed for the government to prosecute perpetrators of the postelection violence last year. In South Africa, the big issue was Zimbabwe and how the South African government should do more to help ease the crisis there. 
 In Angola, the theme was good governing practices and oil, a strategic concern of the United States given the many inroads China has made there and elsewhere in Africa in its hunger for natural resources. In Congo, Mrs. Clinton was passionate about the need to end the nation's rape epidemic.
 ''The secretary's visit to the heart of the world's deadliest war zone in eastern Congo was a potential game-changer for that conflict,'' said John Prendergast, a founder of the Washington-based Enough project. ''Her commitment to addressing root causes such as the conflict minerals that power our electronics industry was a refreshing contrast to the usual disaster sympathy tourism of visiting dignitaries.'' 
 ''Now,'' he added, ''comes the hard part: making good on the promises and living up to the high expectations engendered by her visit.'' 
 In Nigeria, Mrs. Clinton pressed for electoral changes. In Liberia, she praised the country's president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the only woman in Africa to be elected head of state.
 The Liberian visit had a special warmth, almost like a meeting of long-lost cousins. Liberia was founded in the 19th century by freed American slaves, and the country's flag, the people's names and even the police uniforms with plastic-brimmed hats were all reminiscent of the American versions. Mrs. Clinton received possibly her most exuberant welcome there, and a Liberian man with a long wooden horn followed her around most of the visit, blowing out loud funny noises whenever she said something striking.
 ''I love that -- the horn -- I want to take that guy with me wherever I go,'' she said.
 In Cape Verde, Mrs. Clinton seemed to have few bones to pick. For once, she said, she had a cheat sheet on a country that included a list of far more positives than negatives. The country has fewer than 500,000 people and has escaped the turmoil that has engulfed so much of Africa. The all-inclusive, poolside buffet resorts here feel like something found in Cancun or the Bahamas.
 Mrs. Clinton called Cape Verde ''a model of democracy and economic progress in Africa.''
 On Friday, just as she had at every stop, she started her speech by saying, ''I bring you greetings from President Obama.''
 She called him a ''son of Africa'' and said that under the Obama administration, the United States was determined to help Africa reach its promise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made a toast during a development forum in Nairobi, Kenya, on Aug. 5.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON MAINA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CIVIL WAR (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (58%) AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); KENYA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); CAPE VERDE (94%); NIGERIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); LIBERIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



396 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: A Flood of Ideas About Health Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''10 Steps to Better Health Care,'' by Atul Gawande, Donald Berwick, Elliott Fisher and Mark McClellan (Op-Ed, Aug. 13):
 The writers touch on a significant but generally overlooked issue in the heated and often nasty debate about health care reform. They refer to pockets around the nation where health care costs are not wildly out of control while the quality of care is maintained at acceptable levels.
 It makes economic and moral sense for our legislators and President Obama to explore incorporating the ideas cited in this article as they try to work out a comprehensive legislative tool to improve a system that is too costly and doesn't ensure coverage of a large segment of our population.
 Using their examples to develop working models of reform can only result over time in the delivery of better quality care and improved medical outcomes. 
 Alan Safron Woodcliff Lake, N.J., Aug. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''10 Steps to Better Health Care'' makes clear that a major problem in reducing costs is the fee-for-service model, whereby physicians are paid for the often expensive tests and procedures they provide. Psychologists would say that unless these ''contingencies of reinforcement'' are changed, it will be hard to control costs.
 The writers note that when the incentive for fees is eliminated through salaries, costs are significantly reduced. With medical students typically graduating with a debt of $140,000 for their education, the incentive to generate such excessive fees is set in place.
 One obvious way to change all of this is for the government to pay for doctors' medical education if they accept a salaried position.
 Paul M. Wortman East Setauket, N.Y., Aug. 13, 2009
 The writer is professor emeritus of social and health psychology at Stony Brook University. 
 To the Editor:
 President Obama and the Democrats in Congress have made a significant mistake in trying to resolve all of the nation's health care problems at the same time. The issue has two distinct, albeit interrelated, aspects: the high cost of providing health care and the high cost of insurance.
 A more rational approach would have been to attack these aspects separately, with reducing health care costs having the higher priority.
 As noted in ''10 Steps to Better Health Care,'' there are prototypes available (for example, the Cleveland Clinic) that could serve as models for redefining how health care is efficiently provided.
 Government incentives for the medical profession to restructure itself along the lines of these models should be the focus of any bill the president signs. One incentive could be a drastic reduction in, or even elimination of, taxes paid by clinics and groups structured along these lines.
 A bill designed to accomplish this result could be written in fewer than 100 pages and in terms easily understood by mainstream Americans.
 Fred Lobbin Columbia, Md., Aug. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The writers have several ideas for improving patient outcomes and keeping costs down.
 But what is an improved patient outcome? Is it a high success rate for surgery? Is it fast service? Is it a low rate of medical errors? Is it a high remission rate for cancers?
 How does one judge whether a high-risk and high-reward procedure yields a good ''patient outcome'' if some patients die and some recover completely?
 The best answers to those questions will come when all adults can make their own decisions about which outcomes are best for them. While today's system falls short of this ideal, every proposal in Congress gives less decision-making power to the individual. 
 There is a lot we can learn from the wisdom of crowds, but I worry that the wisdom of Congress will win the day.
 Jeff Baird Chicago, Aug. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Getting to the Source of the 'Death Panel' Rumor'' (front page, Aug. 14):
 The lack of thoughtful debate on health care reform is breathtaking. How conservatives can spin discussions of end-of-life care into ''death panels'' is mind-boggling.
 Even worse is the fact that under the current system insurance companies are already acting the part by deciding who receives treatment and what type. Yet those same angry mobs attacking these end-of-life proposals are not taking up arms against the status quo. 
 Ann D. Bagchi East Brunswick, N.J., Aug. 14, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As a teacher of a course on death and author of a book on bereavement, I have carefully read Section 1233 (''Advance Care Planning Consultation'') of the proposed health care bill.
 It is a compassionate and coherent statement about helping Americans to understand their choices. We are obsessed with the avoidance of dying and the denial of death.
 As a former hospice volunteer, I was frustrated that every individual I worked with died so quickly because physicians and family members waited too long to initiate the supportive program that a hospice offers. Section 1233 can help in many ways to make dying less painful and frightening.
 Jack D. Spiro Richmond, Va., Aug. 14, 2009
 The writer is the author of ''A Time to Mourn: Judaism and the Psychology of Bereavement.''
 To the Editor:
 ''Thousands Wait in Line for Health Care That's Free'' (news article, Aug. 13) demonstrates quite well why we need a single-payer system in this country.
 It also illustrates why we need reforms in our health care system that make access to health care independent of our job status and our financial status. No one should have to be treated in an arena or at a fairground.
 I would be happy to see the money spent on my benefits go to finance a single-payer system that covers health and dental care. It's time for our elected representatives to do what is right: make sure that every citizen in this country has access to decent care, both health and dental.
 A. L. Alterman Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., Aug. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 One phrase used by more than a few people in the debate on health care reform is that ''our health care system is the envy of the world.'' Which world is that? 
 A recent Harris/Decima Poll in Canada, the country that probably knows our system the best, found a 10-to-1 majority who believe their system is better than ours. And Harris Polls in France and Britain found that most people there believe that their systems are ''the envy of the world.''
 Humphrey Taylor Chairman, The Harris Poll New York, Aug. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 A neighbor asked me how I felt about President Obama's health care reform effort. My answer was that I had no answer. I'm confused. Aside from insiders, does anyone truly understand it?
 Despite all the wild absurdities and tumultuous emotions, we're going to have health care legislation. But what will be in it?
 At 93, I've enjoyed Medicare for 28 years. No complaints.
 Why can't everyone have Medicare, which has performed admirably since 1965, instead of a whole new complicated bureaucracy that will still have to be tested?
 Jack E. Cohen Hewlett, N.Y., Aug. 13, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



397 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 WITH RUSSIAN PROTECTION, OSSETIANS TRY TO DISARM
 The tiny population of South Ossetia -- long embroiled in a struggle to separate from Georgia -- has evolved into a loosely organized fighting force. Now, with Russia guaranteeing its security, South Ossetia is asking residents to turn in their weapons voluntarily. PAGE A4
 BAN ENDS IN AREA OF PAKISTAN
 President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan announced he was lifting a longtime ban on political activities in the restive tribal regions in the northwest, hoping to reduce the influence of the Taliban and Islamic militancy there. PAGE A4 
 CLINTON'S LAST STOP IN AFRICA
 After a seven-nation, 11-day trip, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton wrapped up her Africa tour in Cape Verde and reaffirmed her promise to strengthen American relations with the continent. PAGE A6 
 IRAN STIFLES RAPE ALLEGATIONS
 The country's clerical leadership stepped up a campaign to silence opposition claims that protesters were raped in prison, with prayer leaders in at least three cities denouncing the accusations. PAGE A6 
 IRAQIS HELD IN DENMARK
 A raid by Danish police on a church in Copenhagen where Iraqi refugees were living has ignited demonstrations by thousands demanding they be allowed to stay in Denmark. And some of the refugees have started a hunger strike. PAGE A8 
 IRAQI PRESS PROTESTS CENSORS
 Nearly 100 Iraqi journalists, news media workers and their supporters protested in Baghdad against what they said was a growing push by the country's governing Shiite political parties to muzzle them. PAGE A8 
 KIEV'S UNPREDICTABLE MAYOR
 When members of the Ukrainian Parliament said Leonid M. Chernovetsky, Kiev's impulsive mayor, was acting bizarrely and needed a psychiatric exam, he went to a stadium, exercised and then held a news conference in a tiny bathing suit. The Saturday Profile. PAGE A10 
 CLASHES IN RUSSIAN CAUCASUS
 More than 20 people were killed in violent confrontation in the North Caucasus region in the last two days, including a mysterious attack on seven women in a sauna, underscoring the Kremlin's continued struggles to bring the volatile area under control. PAGE A10 
 Obituaries
 RASHIED ALI, 76
 He joined John Coltrane's ensemble as a second drummer in 1965, and his expressionistic, free-jazz drumming helped define the experimental style of Coltrane's final years. PAGE D7 
 REV. JOHN B. COBURN, 94
 The Right Rev. John B. Coburn, a former Episcopal Bishop of Massachusetts, was for decades a nationally prominent leader of the Episcopal Church. PAGE D7 
 National
 LAWYERS ARE SAID TO PREY ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
 Scams aiming at illegal immigrants have been commonplace for years. But cases where actual lawyers swindled illegal immigrants and the companies that hired them are occurring more and more often, some immigrant rights advocates and lawyers said. PAGE A11 
 PRESIDENTIAL ATTACKER FREED
 Lynette A. Fromme, the waifish acolyte of Charles Manson who tried to kill President Gerald R. Ford in September 1975, was released on parole from federal prison in Texas after spending three decades behind bars, a prison official said. PAGE A11 
 ARMEY QUITS LOBBYING JOB
 Dick Armey, the former House Republican leader, has quit his job with the lobbying firm DLA Piper amid complaints from its drug company clients about his work opposing President Obama's health care overhaul. PAGE A12 
 BIOETHICS AND HEALTH CARE
 What has bioethics contributed to the current national debate over health care reform? The question was put to Daniel Callahan, a philosopher who has been in the bioethics field since its beginning, in an interview this week. Beliefs by Peter Steinfels. PAGE A13 
 ALABAMA TO AID COUNTY
 A new tax intended to rescue Alabama's most populous county, Jefferson, from a budget crisis became law as the Legislature gave less-than-enthusiastic approval to the revenue measure. PAGE A13 
 New York
 CANDIDATE SPOKE WITH ROVE ABOUT NEW JERSEY RACE
 Christopher J. Christie and Karl Rove say their conversations about Mr. Christie running for governor of New Jersey, revealed in House Judiciary Committee documents, were casual. But Democrats say they violated federal law. PAGE A15 
 MEETING ON FATAL CRASH
 The husband of Diane Schuler, who died with seven others when she crashed head on into another car last month, met with state police for the first time since a toxicology report said she was drunk and had traces of marijuana in her system. PAGE A14 
 KEEPING TIME IN THE SUBWAY
 Waiting for a train to arrive or depart may feel interminable, but countdown clocks would at least let riders know how long their misery could last, Susan Dominus writes. Big City. PAGE A14 
 STATE CAN COLLECT DEPOSITS
 New York State can start collecting tens of millions of dollars in unclaimed bottle and can deposits now that a federal judge has allowed some provisions of the state's new deposit law to take effect. PAGE A15 
 Equal Funds in Prosecutor Race A16
 Thompson Fund-Raising Drops A16
 Greenwich Village Journal A17
 Business
 JUDGES GIVE THUMBS DOWN TO 2 PROMINENT U.S. DEALS
 A federal judge rejected a deal regulators had made with Bank of America over the infamous Merrill Lynch bonuses. Another judge rejected the bail agreement for Bernard Madoff's right-hand man. Talking Business by Joe Nocera. PAGE B1 
 AID FOR STUDENTS IN DEBT
 Ideas abound for helping consumers of higher education manage the mountain of debt many must take on, but successes have been few. The latest innovator, SafeStart, has arrived just in time for back-to-school season. Your Money by Ron Lieber. PAGE B1 
 NORTEL SALE STIRS PROTEST
 The prospect of Sweden's Ericsson picking the bones of a bankrupt Nortel Networks, once Canada's largest corporation, has set off a debate over what remains of value at Nortel and, more broadly, what the company owes Canadians. PAGE B1 
 SNAG FOR BOEING DREAMLINER
 The Boeing Company confirmed that it had stopped making fuselage sections for its 787 Dreamliner after discovering a problem in the component's skin. The latest difficulty has raised fresh concerns about when the fuel-efficient plane will be ready to fly. PAGE B3 
 PLAN TO RIVAL NIELSEN RATINGS
 For decades, media companies have been dissatisfied with the audience information provided by Nielsen Media Research. Now several of the biggest companies in television and advertising are considering forming a competitor to Nielsen. PAGE B3 
 NEW CHIEF AT UNIVISION
 Univision, the nation's most-watched Spanish language television network, named a new chief, Cesar Conde, the company's 35-year-old chief strategy officer, after its longtime president said he would retire. PAGE B3 
 CONSUMER PRICES STEADY
 Consumer prices in the United States were steady last month, easing concerns that the record deficit and huge new government spending would spur inflation. PAGE B4 
 Guilty Plea in BetOnSports Case B2 
 Porsche Aids VW Merger B2 
 Spain's Economy Contracts B4 
 U.S. Shares Close Lower B4 
 Living With Celiac Disease B7 
 Sports
 SHOCK, THEN A DIVIDE, IN VICK'S NEW CITY
 Fans in Philadelphia, a sports-obsessed city, seemed divided over the Eagles' signing of Michael Vick, but they were united in at least one response: shock. PAGE D3 
 ALL EYES ON 2 SPRINTERS
 Compelling world track and field championship are not usually found in post-Olympic years. But a meet in Berlin on Saturday seems to be an exception, thanks to two sprinters: Usain Bolt and Tyson Gay. PAGE D2 
 Arts
 A SHAKESPEAREAN FACE-LIFT IN A SMALL OREGON TOWN
 Bill Rauch, the artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival since 2007, has transformed the annual festival, including adding more non-Western plays and bringing in new directors. PAGE C1
 JOHN LEGEND AT THE GARDEN
 At his first headlining show at Madison Square Garden, John Legend seemed in possession of an almost alien calm. A review by Jon Caramanica. PAGE C1 
 SALVATION IN TRANSFORMATION
 The Mostly Mozart Festival has taken some enticing programmatic leaps this summer, including the New York premiere of John Adams's opera ''A Flowering Tree.'' A review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1 
 TWITTER INFILTRATES AUDITIONS
 Daryl Eisenberg, while conducting a casting session for ''Gay Bride of Frankenstein,'' which will be part of the New York Musical Theater Festival, was also tweeting about the performers trying out. PAGE C1 
 ARTISTS BATTLE ON LOW SEAS
 Duke Riley's vision for ''Those About to Die Salute You'' was a naval battle at a reflecting pool in Queens. Teams from different New York museums would battle in makeshift boats. At least, that was the general idea. PAGE C3 
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A19 
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (83%); POLITICS (76%); CENSORSHIP (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); TALIBAN (76%); RELIGION (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); LAWYERS (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); JAZZ & BLUES (65%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UKRAINE (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); DENMARK (92%); GEORGIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAPE VERDE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



398 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Multicultural Stages in a Small Oregon Town

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

DATELINE: ASHLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
If Barack Obama had gone into theater instead of politics, he might have been something like Bill Rauch, the artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival.
 Mr. Rauch, who spent the first 20 years of his career doing community-based theater (which is sort of like community organizing, except that it involves costumes and makeup), assumed the reins at this festival in this small town in southwestern Oregon in 2007. Since then he has made significant changes, increasing the number of non-Western plays, bringing in new directors, expanding the use of nontraditional casting and pursuing a connection between Shakespeare and contemporary theatrical forms, including hip-hop and spoken-word poetry.
 ''The great experiment about me being brought to the Oregon Shakespeare Festival,'' Mr. Rauch said recently, ''both on the organization's part to bring me in and for me to come, was, 'How much progress can we make in creating a theater that, in its work and in its audience, reflects our country?' ''
 Shortly after graduating from Harvard in 1984, Mr. Rauch and some friends, disenchanted by the small numbers being reached by mainstream theater, founded a group called Cornerstone Theater Company in Los Angeles. 
 Mr. Rauch said he had been motivated by a statistic he heard in college, that 98 percent of Americans don't attend the theater regularly.
 ''It really freaked me out, that I was going to devote my life to a profession and only interact with 2 percent of my fellow citizens,'' he said. ''That just felt really wrong. So, to me, a lot of Cornerstone's founding impulse was, 'Let's go out and meet the other 98 percent of our fellow citizens and do plays with and for them, to find out if theater can be relevant to their lives.' ''
 The company goes into small communities and puts on plays -- often classics adapted to address local issues -- with a mix of professional and amateur actors. During the time that Mr. Rauch ran Cornerstone it staged a biracial ''Romeo and Juliet'' in a largely segregated town in Mississippi and a version of Moliere's ''Tartuffe'' in a farming community in Kansas, among many other productions.
 Now trying to bring his ideals to an established theater with a loyal but opinionated audience, Mr. Rauch faces a challenge. Founded in 1935 as a three-day event, the Oregon Shakespeare Festival today has a budget of almost $25 million and three stages, including a 1,190-seat outdoor theater modeled on those in Elizabethan London. Between February and November it presents 11 plays in repertory, typically 4 of them by Shakespeare. They are performed by a resident company of actors, each playing two or three roles. 
 The audience, mostly from Oregon, California and Washington State, exhibits a level of devotion and nerdiness more typically found among sports fans. The majority have been attending the festival for 15 years or more. Having an encyclopedic memory of past productions, down to the names of actors who played minor roles, is a point of pride among the regulars, as is saying that you have ''completed the canon'': seen all 37 (or 38, depending on how you count them) Shakespeare plays.
 Mr. Rauch directed several productions here before his appointment as artistic director and said he fell in love with the institution partly because of this devoted audience. But he wants to attract new theatergoers, including more local residents, as well as racially diverse audiences from Portland, Seattle and the San Francisco Bay Area. 
 To that end he has changed the Green Show -- a program of free outdoor performances that take place every summer evening before the 8:30 curtain -- from a modern-dance event to a freewheeling array of local performers and visiting artists, from African drummers to flamenco musicians to professional break dancers. 
 He recruited Alison Carey, one of the founders of Cornerstone, to run a program called ''American Revolutions: The United States History Cycle,'' which will commission up to 37 plays about moments of change in the nation's history. 
 Some of the writers chosen so far, like Suzan-Lori Parks and Lynn Nottage, have had their plays produced in Ashland before. Others, like the South Korean-born playwright Young Jean Lee and the Navajo playwright Rhiana Yazzie, have not. And a few -- like Universes, a hip-hop-influenced theater ensemble, and Culture Clash, a Chicano performance troupe, whose play ''American Night'' will have its world premiere here next season -- represent a fairly large departure from the traditional aesthetic at the festival before Mr. Rauch arrived.
 Mr. Rauch has also supported nontraditional casting in situations where previous artistic directors did not. The festival has long cast actors of varied races in Shakespeare plays and has also produced many works with predominantly African-American casts, by writers like August Wilson, Rita Dove, Ms. Parks and Ms. Nottage. But it has not cast nonwhite actors as frequently in revivals of American classics. Mr. Rauch is changing that.
 Last season's production of Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' featured an Indian-born actress in the role of Emily Webb. And this year Mr. Rauch cast an African-American actress, Gwendolyn Mulamba, as Marian the Librarian in his staging of ''The Music Man.'' That production received mixed reviews, with the critic for The Seattle Times calling Ms. Mulamba ''a very fine O.S.F. actress'' who was ''sorely miscast'' as Marian. 
 Mr. Rauch acknowledges that these casting choices have been somewhat controversial. ''It has been just a breath of fresh air for some audience members, and other audience members have really struggled with what they see as a lack of realism,'' he said. But he said he believed strongly that, as ''a theater company in the 21st-century United States of America,'' the festival has a responsibility ''to reflect the society that we are part of, in every choice that we make.''
 The president of the festival's board, James Risser, said he didn't have a problem with the casting of Ms. Mulamba as Marian.
 ''I agree that there probably wouldn't have been a black librarian in Iowa in 1912, but I think we've gotten beyond that in watching plays these days,'' Mr. Risser said.
 According to Mr. Rauch's friends, his commitment to diversity and his belief that art is for everyone, regardless of economic, ethnic or cultural background, runs deep.
 ''Bill has an extremely inclusive nature,'' Ms. Carey said. ''It's not a philosophy,'' she added. ''It's literally the way he was born.''
 Richard Montoya, a Culture Clash member, said Mr. Rauch's support of multiculturalism wasn't ''one ounce cynical'' or politically calculated. 
 ''He's not an artistic director talking about multiculturalism -- he's an artistic director really living it,'' from his work ''to his children,'' Mr. Montoya said. He was referring to Liam, 9, and Xavier, 4, the two adopted mixed-race sons of Mr. Rauch and his companion of 25 years, Christopher Liam Moore.
 The recession has not interfered greatly with Mr. Rauch's plans. Late last year the company cut $1.65 million from its 2009 budget in anticipation of reduced ticket sales. As of late July, however, sales were holding steady with last season's. In addition, this year a group of donors contributed slightly more than $2 million to a special ''artistic opportunity fund,'' meant to allow the festival to avoid slashing costs in areas where it would affect the quality of the work.
 Mr. Rauch said he was optimistic about reaching his goals.
 ''I think you could find people who would tell you that I'm a radical and I'm moving too fast, and you could find people who would say that it's such a huge battleship and it's so slow to turn around,'' he said of the festival. ''I'm very pleased with how it's going.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the Oregon Shakespeare Festival and its artistic director, Bill Rauch, who acknowledged that his casting of nonwhite actors in revivals of American classics has been controversial, incompletely quoted a review that commented on the African-American actress Gwendolyn Mulamba's performance as Marian the Librarian in the festival's production of ''The Music Man.'' While the review, by Misha Berson of The Seattle Times, said that Ms. Mulamba ''was a very fine O.S.F. actress'' who had been ''sorely miscast,'' it also made clear that the ''sorely miscast'' comment was based on her acting and singing in the production, not her race.
 A picture caption with the article misspelled the surname of an actress shown as Lady Macbeth in a festival production. She is Robin Goodrin Nordli, not Nordil. And because of an editing error, the article misidentified the city where Mr. Rauch founded the Cornerstone Theater Company in the 1980s. It was founded in McLean, Va. -- not in Los Angeles, where it later moved.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 1,190-seat theater at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival looks Elizabethan, but its casts often don't. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON) (C1)
Bill Rauch, the artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival since 2007.
Gwendolyn Mulamba as Marian the Librarian and Michael Elich as Harold Hill in ''The Music Man'' this season.
 Peter Macon as Macbeth and Robin Goodrin Nordil as Lady Macbeth in this season's festival production of ''Macbeth.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNY GRAHAM) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009



399 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2542 words

HEADLINE: Staff Chief Wields Power Freely, But Influence Comes With Risk

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JEFF ZELENY; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel was the one to bring the hammer down on Sidney Blumenthal.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton wanted to hire Mr. Blumenthal, a loyal confidant who had helped her promote the idea of a ''vast right-wing conspiracy'' more than a decade ago. But President Obama's campaign veterans still blamed him for spreading harsh attacks against their candidate in the primary showdown with Mrs. Clinton last year.
 So Mr. Emanuel talked with Mrs. Clinton, said Democrats informed about the situation, and explained that bringing Mr. Blumenthal on board was a no-go. The bad blood among his colleagues was too deep, and the last thing the administration needed, he concluded, was dissension and drama in the ranks. In short, Mr. Blumenthal was out.
 Perhaps nothing illustrates how far Mr. Emanuel has come than that conversation last month. Sixteen years ago, it was Mrs. Clinton, then first lady, who helped have Mr. Emanuel demoted as a senior official in Bill Clinton's White House after he ruffled feathers with his aggressive style. Now all these years later, it is Mr. Emanuel telling Mrs. Clinton what she cannot do as a member of the cabinet. 
 Seven months after moving into his office in the West Wing, Mr. Emanuel is emerging as perhaps the most influential White House chief of staff in a generation. But with his prominence in almost everything important going on in Washington comes a high degree of risk. 
 As the principal author of Mr. Obama's do-everything-at-once strategy, he stands to become a figure of consequence in his own right if the administration stabilizes the economy and financial markets, overhauls the health care system and winds down one war while successfully prosecuting another.
 If things do not go well -- and right now Mr. Obama's political popularity is declining, his health care legislation is under conservative assault, the budget deficit is at an eye-popping level and Afghanistan remains volatile -- it is Mr. Emanuel whose job will be on the line before Mr. Obama's.
 ''He's about to be tested; he's spinning a lot of plates over there and he breaks a lot of china,'' said Joel Johnson, a close friend and fellow veteran official of the Clinton White House. ''They've had some good success early on, but they've got a number of major pieces of the agenda in the queue, and it's going to be really difficult.''
 The caricature of Mr. Emanuel as a profanity-spewing operative has given way to a more nuanced view: as a profanity-spewing operative with a keen understanding of how to employ power on behalf of a new president with relatively little experience in Washington. 
 Although relentlessly deferential to the president, Mr. Emanuel is clearly more chief than staff. While some predecessors husbanded their authority, lest it be diluted, friends said he believed the more someone used power, the more power that person had. 
 He knows how to pull all the levers of influence in Washington -- raising money, mobilizing interest groups and harvesting the latest policy ideas from research groups. At the same time, his relentless campaign-style approach sometimes leaves some colleagues worried they spend too much time reacting to events.
 At times, it seems as if Mr. Emanuel is White House chief of staff, political director, legislative director and communications director all rolled into one. He has fingers in almost every decision, like who gets invited to social events at the White House and how to shape economic and foreign policy.
 He carries a notecard in his pocket with a list of things to accomplish and marks them off obsessively. He requires cabinet secretaries and all West Wing departments to submit written reports each week and returns them with terse notes in the margins. 
 As negotiations intensified on health care recently, he was a constant presence on Capitol Hill -- one day alone, he was there 8.5 hours before returning to the White House to tend to other duties. 
 ''He can juggle 20 or 25 things in one day, in part by delegating and in part by picking only the things that matter,'' said Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, a Republican congressman recruited by Mr. Emanuel to serve in the cabinet. 
 A Frantic Pace
 Where Mr. Obama is known for cool detachment, Mr. Emanuel presses until the breaking point, then presses some more. ''The president has a zenlike quality,'' said Mr. Obama's senior adviser, David Axelrod. ''Rahm is a pile driver.''
 Attention has focused on Mr. Emanuel's larger-than-life personality, but it is his operating style that matters more to Mr. Obama at this crucial juncture. What comes through in interviews with roughly 60 people in the White House, on Capitol Hill and around Washington is an intense engagement built on a series of testosterone-driven aphorisms:
 ''Put points on the board.''
 ''In politics, you're either pitching or catching.'' 
 ''A man never stands as tall as when he is on all fours kissing'' rear ends. 
 In other words, take what victories you can, stay on the offensive and do not be afraid to stroke big egos to advance the president's agenda.
 Mr. Emanuel, 49, starts his day shortly after 5 a.m., when he swims at the Y.M.C.A. and then hits the House gymnasium to pick up intelligence from colleagues from his days in Congress. At 7:30 a.m., he gathers top White House officials in his office and meets the full senior staff in the Roosevelt Room at 8:15 a.m. He then sees the president alone in the Oval Office for 10 minutes, a private session repeated at the end of each day. 
 Aides estimate he talks with 50 people a day by telephone and sends hundreds of e-mail messages. Phone calls often last a minute or two, just long enough to deliver a point or extract information. E-mail messages are often a word or two. 
 ''It seems like he has a 72-hour day,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.
 But Mr. Emanuel casts his net widely, from lawmakers and lobbyists to journalists and corporate executives. When he took over the chief of staff's office -- an office that, he makes a point of telling visitors, is eight square feet larger than the vice president's -- he brought a telephone list of 6,000 names that crashed White House software. 
 ''I've heard more from Rahm in six months than I heard from Andy Card in six years, and Card's daughter worked for me,'' said former Representative Tom Davis, Republican of Virginia, referring to a chief of staff under President George W. Bush.
 Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, noted one day this month that he had been with Mr. Emanuel in meetings from 8:15 a.m. until noon but still had three telephone calls and a dozen e-mail messages from him later that day.
 But if Mr. Emanuel flits from subject to subject, he tries to manage his own short attention span. ''There's the Rahm who's frenetic, the A.D.D. Rahm, the 'Ari Emanuel' Rahm making a thousand phone calls a day and BlackBerrying one-word messages,'' said John D. Podesta, Mr. Clinton's last chief of staff, referring to Mr. Emanuel's Hollywood-agent brother. ''But then there's a corporate Rahm that extends his decision making and authority.''
 The people he extends that to include two deputy chiefs of staff, Jim Messina and Mona Sutphen, and aides like Sarah Feinberg and Sean Sweeney. He also relies heavily on Pete Rouse, a senior presidential adviser, and Phil Schiliro, the legislative director.
 Mr. Emanuel presides over a White House where people are defined by whether they went through the fires of the campaign. He did not. When Mr. Obama invited longtime aides like Mr. Axelrod and Robert Gibbs, the press secretary, to Camp David recently, Mr. Emanuel was not included.
 He gets along well with most other members of the Obama team, including Mr. Axelrod, a longtime Chicago friend who served as a witness at his wedding. But as a head-knocking addition to the tightly knit ''no drama Obama'' world, Mr. Emanuel has almost inevitably been in the midst of some tensions. Mr. Emanuel was wary of Valerie Jarrett, the president's close friend, joining the White House staff. In the intervening months, the two ''have spent a lot of time working at that'' relationship and ''get along well now,'' Mr. Podesta said.
 But when a New York Times Magazine profile of Ms. Jarrett last month explored the old scratchiness, White House officials said the normally calm Mr. Obama erupted with anger. An informal edict went out: no more cooperating with staff profiles. As a result, Mr. Emanuel declined a formal interview for this article.
 Fear in His Wake
 Whatever intrigue exists inside the White House, Mr. Emanuel, who once dreamed of becoming House speaker, spends as much time monitoring the intrigue on Capitol Hill. 
 When the House was taking up a war spending bill in June, Mr. Emanuel noticed a Republican ally had yet to vote. With one minute left on the vote clock, he called the ally, Representative Peter T. King of New York. ''There's only one minute to go in the vote,'' Mr. Emanuel said into voicemail. ''I'm waiting for you.'' 
 Mr. King, who did vote for the bill, laughed as he recounted the story. ''I had this crazy guy from the White House watching me,'' he said.
 Mr. Emanuel's hand could be seen in many fights Mr. Obama has won, including the economic stimulus package, the bank bailout and the budget bill, which passed the House by a wider majority than any in 10 years.
 When Mr. Obama decided to eliminate the F-22 fighter jet, Mr. Emanuel called his old friend William M. Daley, a former commerce secretary, to ask him to generate an audience in Chicago for Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to announce the move. 
 Then Mr. Emanuel called more than 20 members of Congress. ''He's been so good to me, when he said, 'We need you on this,' I said fine,'' recalled a Democratic senator who asked not to be identified describing a private conversation. 
 Mr. Emanuel still trades on a reputation sealed years ago as a ferocious operative, a reputation that, by most accounts, is dated. While he remains a tough, foul-mouthed scrapper, he is more likely these days to give a dog dish to a senator who got a new puppy (as he did to Kent Conrad this summer) than send a dead fish to an enemy (as he did two decades ago as a brash young campaign aide). 
 ''There are negotiations with him all the time,'' said Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska. ''You can be as flexible or inflexible as he is.''
 Or as Mr. Gibbs put it: ''He doesn't snarl, snap his teeth and chew people up and spit them out.''
 But the fear that he might works to his advantage. When Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, led freshman lawmakers to the White House to express concern about health care legislation, he was struck that Mr. Emanuel listened respectfully. Mr. Emanuel's reputation set a low bar so that, in effect, Mr. Connolly said, the message was: ''I could eat you alive but I didn't. Don't you feel better now?''
 That is not to say Mr. Emanuel does not still play hardball. When Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Republican whip, criticized Mr. Obama for spending too much, cabinet secretaries sent a letter to his state's governor, Jan Brewer, a Republican, asking what stimulus money she did not want. 
 Representative Darrell Issa of California, the ranking Republican on a House oversight committee, vowed to investigate Mr. Emanuel's presumed involvement in sending the letter, and in an interview he questioned the sincerity of Mr. Emanuel's outreach to Republicans. ''He'll smile and at the same time he flips you the bird,'' Mr. Issa said. ''The best way to describe Rahm is that he's a brass-knuckle Chicago politician.'' 
 While jousting with the right, Mr. Emanuel has tried to impose order on the left, dispatching Mr. Messina to weekly meetings with liberal interest groups called the Common Purpose Project, a tactic adopted from the Bush White House. Mr. Emanuel showed up this month amid internal tension over health care. Asked about liberal advertisements aimed at Democrats in conservative districts, he delivered an obscenity-laced tirade about the senselessness of attacking each other, participants said.
 To say he has inserted himself into the heart of negotiations with Congress might understate it. When Mr. Obama spoke with Congressional leaders last month to get an update on health care before heading overseas, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, asked, ''But Rahm is going to stay here, right?''
 Any White House blends political operatives with policy wonks in a sometimes-uneasy relationship. In this White House, they have given themselves nicknames -- the Aspen Institute policy people versus the Tammany Hall political people. Mr. Emanuel is the undisputed boss of Tammany Hall. But he sometimes challenges the Aspen Institute on its turf.
 Mr. Emanuel is more involved in domestic and foreign policy than outsiders realize, colleagues said. After Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner stumbled in rolling out a new banking policy, Mr. Obama told Mr. Emanuel to step in, and he met for an hour each day with the economic team to develop a workable policy.
 Mr. Emanuel also helped formulate a plan expanding access to community colleges. And when the economic team wrote new financial industry rules, officials said he insisted on breaking out limits on the credit card industry so they could be passed separately and right away.
 All Over the Map
 In national security, officials said Mr. Emanuel had been a player on issues central to the Obama presidency -- Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, the Middle East and, to some extent, Iraq and Russia. He has been a force behind the administration's opposition to Israeli settlement expansion, drawing fire from some Israel supporters.
 After a last-minute decision to have the president go to Saudi Arabia yielded no tangible results, Mr. Emanuel pushed to ensure that future foreign trips had ''deliverables,'' or achievements secured in advance. 
 His win-the-day mentality, so shunned by the Bush team, can make for a reactive White House. Where Mr. Bush's aides prided themselves on sticking to plans, Mr. Emanuel constantly adjusts. Aides said they went home at night thinking they knew the next day's plan, only to discover after his 7:30 a.m. meeting with top advisers that the plan had been ripped up.
 It can have a whipsaw effect. At one staff meeting this summer, Mr. Emanuel and colleagues discussed whether rising deficits justified scaling back stimulus spending, one participant said. A week or so later, the discussion had turned 180 degrees. Concerned the stimulus was not working, the group discussed a second stimulus plan.
 But Mr. Emanuel insists on discipline. When an environmental policy decision was leaked, he lashed out at a staff meeting, saying anyone in the room who thought they were smarter than the president should go into the Oval Office and tell him.
 ''Whatever that image, inside the administration it is like a family,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''You can disagree in private, but you're not going to air the disagreements publicly and you're not going to undercut your sibling -- or you'll pay for it at the dinner table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(A1)
''The president has a zenlike quality. Rahm is a pile driver.'' DAVID AXELROD, President Obama's senior adviser (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 David Axelrod and Valerie Jarrett with Rahm Emanuel, who seems as if he is also political, legislative and communications director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); VETERANS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); CONSPIRACY (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); HEALTH CARE LAW (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOEL V STAFF (78%); DAVID AXELROD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009



400 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: The Spirit of '69, Circa 1972

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THAT legendary summer of '69 I was 17. What a moment in history to be a baby boomer: the Stonewall riots, the moon walk, the Manson murders, Woodstock. A youth movement unlike any before. By the time we got to Woodstock, we were half a million strong -- although I do want to make it clear, I cannot vouch for that.
 I wasn't there.
 I wasn't at the Stonewall riots, either, and while I can't be sure, it's possible that in the summer of '69 I didn't know what a homosexual was. (If I did, it was from health class.) 
 The Manson murders? If it wasn't on the sports pages, unlikely I was paying attention.
 The sexual revolution? I was still a year away from heavy petting.
 The drug culture? Did not smoke a joint that summer nor did I know anyone who had.
 The Vietnam War? Did not have an opinion that summer.
 I did see the moon walk, though it was not a psychedelic experience for me. I watched it at home with my mom.
 That summer 40 years ago, the 1960s may have been exploding all around me, but I was not yet ready for the '60s and would not get to the '60s until the early '70s. This made things very different for me than for boomers who were just a few years older and felt the full force of the '60s in the '60s.
 Geography was not my problem; I did not grow up in rural Alaska. I grew up in Quincy, Mass., a suburb so close to Boston, I could ride my bike to Fenway Park, where I worked nights selling hot dogs that summer. (Days, I dug ditches for the Quincy sewer department.)
 This was partly about class. Quincy was a blue-collar shipyard town, and the '60s arrived there about five years after they did in liberal, upscale areas like Newton and Brookline, Mass.
 I graduated from North Quincy High in 1970, and socially, the big deal was going to Wollaston Beach on Saturday night and drinking a case of beer. In 1970, our class officers had short hair and posed for the yearbook in neckties. That year, a group of thug athletes beat up one of the few boys at our school with long hair.
 In just two years' time, when my brother graduated, in 1972, dope was all over the high school and all the class officers had long hair.
 If you were a boomer born in 1946 and graduated college in '68, you were ripe for Vietnam.
 If you were a boomer born in 1951, as I was, by the time you graduated college in 1974, the war was all but over. In 1969 a draft lottery was put in effect, and there was talk -- just talk, it turned out -- of abolishing college deferments. Had I been drafted out of high school in 1970, I'm fairly certain I would have gone. Not out of any conviction. I was too unformed, lived too insular a life to think I had an alternative like going to Canada or finding a doctor to lie for me. I would have regarded Vietnam as an experience that built character. It would never have occurred to me that I was the kind of person who could die there.
 Of course, they didn't get rid of college deferments, and even if they had, it turned out I wouldn't have had to go -- my lottery number was 320 out of 365.
 Circumstance. Luck. Timing. We don't like to think those things can hold sway, but writing a column about my generation, I've come to think what a big difference even a year can make in how a life takes shape.
 The boomers at Harvard in the spring of 1969 faced choices that we boomers who arrived as freshman in September 1970 never had to face.
 In April '69, hundreds of Harvard students were arrested after occupying University Hall to protest the war and R.O.T.C. on campus. In the spring of 1970, after the invasion of Cambodia and the Kent State deaths, students shut down hundreds of universities nationwide.
 That fall of 1970, a group of freshmen called a meeting that attracted much of our class, to discuss a plan for political action. The idea was to carry on from the classes before ours.
 I don't remember how I had come to it, but by that meeting, I was against the war. Probably, as much as anything, it was just getting out of Quincy and seeing some of the world -- four of us spent that summer before college traveling cross-country in my friend's Rambler. This I remember: At the end of that summer of '70 I was back in Quincy for my precollege physical with our family doctor. And this man who had come to our house with his black bag when I was sick and made me well, was now lecturing me about not wasting time at Harvard protesting, while I quietly seethed.
 That fall of 1970, we wanted to do something, we had to do something, but the class of '74 couldn't think of anything to do. The call to action fizzled.
 During my college years, I marched in a few antiwar protests, but nothing that felt like we were changing anything.
 On a personal level, that first semester of my freshman year, I did catch up with the '60s on several fronts, mostly at small smoky parties or in the privacy of a dorm room. When a girl who showed me what came after heavy petting dumped me, I played Donovan's ''Catch the Wind'' so many times a guy on the floor below complained.
 Not only did I meet actual gay people but I also learned that one of those guys in the North Quincy High 1970 class officer photo with a tie and short hair, who had also come to Harvard -- yes, he was.
 I wore my hair long and embraced the idealism and activism of the summer of '69, though in a safer, more mainstream form. I became a big brother to a boy who lived at Columbia Point, the worst housing project in Boston, and volunteered in the first and only political campaign of my life -- going door to door for George McGovern.
 Well into the 1970s, my classmates continued to talk like it was the summer of '69. During tryouts for the college paper, The Crimson, we'd paste our articles in a big scrapbook, and the editors would critique them. God forbid you wrote ''Vietcong'' in an article (the American name for the armed resistance in South Vietnam) instead of ''National Liberation Front'' (the North Vietnamese name) -- you'd lose points for being an imperialist lackey.
 Midway through college, the economy turned bad for the class of '74. Unemployment was 7.2 percent; inflation 8.8 percent. Jobs in academia dried up. Jobs in general dried up. Suddenly, a large portion of our class, including many anti-imperialists, decided to go to law, medical and business schools.
 I was part of a minority looking for work, and felt lucky after my junior year, in the summer of '73, to land an internship at The Times-Union in Rochester, N.Y.
 Rochester, I was quite sure, was middle America -- Kodak, Xerox, Bausch & Lomb. As much as my heart was in the '60s, I needed to make a good impression, and got a haircut so I'd blend in.
 When I showed up for work that first day, I was embarrassed. Looking around I could see I had the shortest hair in the newsroom; the '60s had reached Rochester long before I did. 
 I was also the worst of the five interns starting out. They had all learned their craft at journalism schools; Harvard didn't offer anything as mundane as journalism, and the articles I was writing in Rochester didn't tap into my knowledge of the National Liberation Front.
 I started with obits, got the hang of it, and by the end of the summer, after a week spent writing articles about the county fair -- the championship lemon meringue pie, the six new piglets in the 4-H tent -- I had learned to write a feature story. The Monroe County fair, of all places, was where I fell in love with reporting and writing. 
 Before I returned to Cambridge for my senior year, one of the veteran reporters invited me to his home for dinner. Sitting in his living room, over hors d'oeuvres, he and I and his wife, a bank vice president, shared a joint, had a good laugh about my Rochester haircut, and then we all sat down for a nice dinner.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Generation B column last Sunday, about the author's delayed acknowledgment of Sixties culture, referred incorrectly to student draft deferments during the Vietnam War era. They were issued until September 1971, and college students at that time were allowed to keep their deferments for the rest of that school year. The deferments did not last until the draft ended in 1973. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FEVER At Harvard in April 1969
 by fall of '70, the call to act had fizzled.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); RIOTS (89%); CANNABIS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

 
