

201 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; VOICES FROM THE STORM BOB AND ANNA SIMPSON, LA CENTER, KY.; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Uprooted by Rising Waters, But Not Ready to Walk Away

BYLINE: By MALCOLM GAY

 BODY:
LA CENTER, Ky. -- If there ever was a time for Bob Simpson to retire to his farm near this Kentucky high ground, it is now.
Hunched by age but ginger on his cane, Mr. Simpson, 94, bought the land some 40 years ago, thinking he would retire here from his lifelong home across the river in Cairo, Ill., the collapsed city that now sits threatened by the overfed Mississippi and Ohio Rivers.
''I'm still thinking about it,'' said Mr. Simpson, who with his wife, Anna, 92, heeded a mandatory evacuation order and is now staying with their daughter and her family at the farm. ''Right now, we're just sponging off them.'' 
Leaving Cairo might seem like an easy choice to some. Mr. Simpson has witnessed his town, once home to more than 15,000, go from ''the hustlin'-est, bustlin'-est town you'd ever seen'' to its current state -- with less than 3,000 residents, one physician, no dentist and a surfeit of torched and abandoned buildings. Homeless dogs roam the streets, sinkholes yawn from the asphalt and the river remains dangerously high.
Mr. Simpson even concedes that he and his wife, who has long wanted to leave, would like to be closer to their daughter here, who could more easily drive them to medical appointments and handle household chores.
Still, he cannot commit to leaving -- at least not yet.
The couple remains independent. Mr. Simpson continues to serve as the chief of Cairo's auxiliary fire department, a position he has held for the past 54 years. He was known to occasionally ride trucks to fire scenes until injuring his back in a fall last year. He is the town's institutional memory, and over the decades he has consulted with mayors on everything from flood prevention and economic development to city schools and civil defense.
''If it was left up to me, I'd have still been there,'' Mr. Simpson said while tucking into a lunch of ham and pineapple rings at a local diner. ''They said at our age, they would feel better if they knew we were out of Cairo.''
Perhaps most important, Mr. Simpson -- like his hometown -- has so far withstood the worst the river has had to offer. He did not decamp when, at 10, he saw a paddleboat pushing its way up a flooded road during the Great Flood of 1927. When the waters rose again 10 years later, Mr. Simpson avoided an evacuation order by ingratiating himself to the town's mayor, walking the levees and fetching lunch for local officials.
''I figured: 'I'm a pretty good swimmer. I'll find a high spot somewhere,' '' Mr. Simpson said. ''Leaving Cairo didn't even enter my mind.''
But where these earlier disasters failed, the Great Flood of 2011 has succeeded, and the Simpsons, now sipping coffee in the safety of the diner, fled with nothing more than a few days' clothes.
''We've lived in that house for 63 years -- that counts for something,'' Mr. Simpson said, debating whether to leave their two-story Cape Cod-style home. ''It would be heartbreaking if it does flood,'' he added, ''but we'll shut the door, rent us an apartment and forget it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Simpson preparing to evacuate his home of 63 years in Cairo, Ill. When the rivers rose in 1937, he said, ''leaving Cairo didn't even enter my mind.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOON POWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); FLOOD CONTROL (67%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



202 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Change With a Straight Face Barrels Into the Castro

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
There's an old saying in San Francisco: Market Street is straight, until it reaches the Castro.
Cartographically true, it refers to the city's famously gay mecca. But these days, there are concerns that the neighborhood is becoming slightly less bent.
A Different Light Bookstore, which specialized in gay and lesbian literature for 26 years, shut last weekend -- the latest in a series of closings of longtime businesses that were gay-owned and operated or catered to gay clientele. The neighborhood is littered with empty storefronts.
Amid this gloom, however, there is one burst of excitement that has crowds lining up, drawing visitors from throughout the Bay Area and beyond: Sunday brunch at Lime on Market.
With ''bottomless Mimosas,'' the restaurant and club has become so popular that it can take weeks to get a reservation. Patrons regularly defy stanchions and block sidewalks as they wait to cram inside where techno pop music blares at rock concert decibels. 
''It's the only place like L.A. in San Francisco,'' a British man said last month as he was shooed inside by the bouncer.
The crowd, to a large extent, is straight.
But even in a part of the city known for anything-goes partying, the scene at Lime has soured some residents and led them to ask, What's happening to our neighborhood?
Scott Wiener, who represents the neighborhood on the Board of Supervisors, said his office had received a litany of complaints in recent months.
''A lot of extremely drunk people behaving obnoxiously loud, urinating in public, vomiting,'' Mr. Wiener said, running through a list of concerns from constituents. ''A few accounts of homophobic slurs,'' he added, but he thought those incidents were rare and asked that they be played down.
There have also been reports of locals' casting anti-straight aspersions at Lime patrons.
But most of the frustrations seem to center on the idea that outsiders have invaded the Castro primarily for one reason: to get drunk.
Visits to Lime on several Sunday afternoons in March and April documented a number of incidents: patrons drinking what appeared to be alcohol outside the club; customers so groggy they had to be held upright; people staggering from the club and walking directly into moving traffic; and puddles of vomit sullying the block.
''It's an issue because of the behavior that's happening as a result of overserving,'' said Andrea Aiello, executive director of the Castro/Upper Market Community Benefit District, a neighborhood improvement program.
For $7, customers can consume unlimited Mimosas (bottomless Bloody Marys are $12) -- a recession-friendly offering. Lime is one of several establishments in the city now serving alcohol this way.
Such all-you-can-drink promotions are legal, but ''definitely a concern, as is anything that promotes intoxication,'' said John Carr, spokesman for the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. ''It's frowned upon.''
The results of this bargain-basement inebriation have overwhelmed some nearby businesses. There have been reports of brawling, and male customers have been spotted relieving themselves on the walls of nearby shops and residences. On Sundays, two businesses have posted ''no restrooms'' signs to keep tipsy Lime customers away. (The lines can be long for Lime's restrooms.)
Ms. Aiello said that her organization reached out last month to the club's owner, Greg Bronstein, to work on resolving the problems, but that he was unresponsive. Mr. Bronstein twice scheduled interviews for this column, but failed to follow through and stopped responding to messages.
Mr. Wiener said he had spoken to Mr. Bronstein and elicited a promise to control customers. On one recent Sunday the club's exasperated doorman, who looked like a male Grace Jones, was seen struggling to control the crowd to little avail.
The controversy swirling around Lime has hit at a time when the neighborhood is suffering. In addition to the bookstore's closing, four local restaurants went out of business in recent weeks, and in previous months longtime record and video shops have disappeared. Other businesses are also reportedly teetering on failure.
Bevan Dufty, the district's former supervisor and a current mayoral candidate, said the neighborhood was in transition. He blamed economics -- not sexual orientation.
''This is a fallout from the economic collapse,'' Mr. Dufty said, ''and the recovery was always expected to be slow.''
Indeed, when the details were considered, each closing appeared to be due to fiscal realities. For example, retail sales of books, videos and music have been affected nearly everywhere by Internet commerce, and some businesses failed when leases expired and parties could not agree to new terms.
Still, the totality of so many losses of established gay businesses has been felt. The Castro has been an enclave for gay men and lesbians since the 1970s. Harvey Milk, the assassinated gay civil rights leader, set in motion a national movement from a humble camera shop there.
The district has never been exclusively gay (one-third of residents self-identify as gay men or lesbians, compared with 13 percent in the city), but there has been some trouble in the past between residents and visitors. A large Halloween street party raged peacefully for years until it became a popular destination for tens of thousands of revelers -- many of them heterosexual -- from elsewhere in the region beginning in the late 1990s. Episodes of homophobia and violence followed, and in 2006 nine people were shot and wounded in a melee. The party has since been canceled or curtailed.
In this context the incidents at Lime have become a flash point. Yet change in the Castro seems inevitable. In an age when homosexuals are receiving greater acceptance, fewer feel compelled to live in ghettos as they once did, and that means a more substantial mix of residents is likely, as well as services that meet their needs.
In fact, some establishments have opened in the area and attracted both gay and straight patronage without the drama surrounding Lime. Two blocks down Market, the bar Blackbird is flourishing with just such a mix.
Mr. Dufty hailed Blackbird's success as a positive example of the neighborhood's evolution. But he also said that the district's legacy should not be forgotten and that its gay centricity needed to be maintained.
''You can't take the Castro for granted. It's worth fighting for,'' he said. ''We seek to be inclusive, but it's essential that we remain anchored in our LGBT heritage.''
J. D. Petras, a businessman with several properties in the Castro, including Cafe Flore, a popular outdoor restaurant, has watched the Castro develop for more than 30 years.
''I'd love to see the Castro be a gay ghetto like it was in the 1970s,'' he said, ''but we don't need it anymore. Gay people are everywhere.''
Despite some of the problems that others have reported, Mr. Petras said he welcomed the crowds flocking to Lime. He said the club's patrons were helping to revive the depressed local economy.
''It's fun for young kids coming into the big city,'' he said. ''It's good for our neighborhood. Who the hell cares if it's gay, mixed or straight?''
Now, if only they could be potty trained, then perhaps the rest of the neighbors would feel as accommodating.
''I don't want it to be spring break each weekend,'' Mr. Dufty said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Castro Theatre remains a popular draw in the Castro district, but some other businesses in the area, like A Different Light Bookstore, have recently closed.
 The restaurant and club Lime is so popular that the wait for a reservation can be two weeks, but many in the Castro say it is not a good neighbor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); POP & ROCK (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



203 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2224 words

HEADLINE: A Quest for the Unholy Grail

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
As reporting opportunities go, few can have been more spectacularly flubbed than the one that came my way on a long-ago spring day in the former Northwest Frontier Province of Pakistan. The year was 1989; the location a cramped room at a ramshackle indoctrination camp for Arab militants in the hinterland outside Peshawar, the frontier town that was a staging area for the mujahedeen who forced Soviet troops to withdraw from Afghanistan earlier that year.
At the back, in a corner, sat a tall, straggly-bearded man in his early 30s, silent, taut-faced, and plainly, by his body language, deeply upset by a reporter's intrusion. His name, I learned later from an officer of Pakistan's military intelligence agency, the Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence, was Osama bin Laden. I never spoke to him that day, on what proved to be the only firsthand sighting I would have of the man whose terrorist murderousness -- and success for so long in eluding history's biggest manhunt -- was to recast the story of our time. 
For me, as for many foreign correspondents of my generation, Bin Laden was to become an obsessive figure, a sort of unholy grail, just as he was for the American commandos who finally tracked him down. A handful of reporters succeeded in interviewing him in the decade after my own encounter, always under cloak-and-dagger conditions, always at one of his hideaways in Afghanistan. But very few were to meet him after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when he largely became a figure to be seen only in the smuggled videotapes that became his sermons -- and now his epitaph -- for the world.
Still, even unseen, the man and his cause were revealed in all manner of ways to those who pursued him. My own journey included a eureka moment in the old bazaar in the Yemeni capital, Sana, in August 2001, when a visit to a video shop specializing in jihadi best-sellers produced, from beneath the counter, a set of fresh-from-the-courier tapes that included hours of Bin Laden addressing Qaeda loyalists in Afghanistan. From the excitement in the eyes of the wizened old man who sold me the tapes, I judged that they might contain something unusual.
After spending days poring over the tapes with an Arab-speaking scholar in a London garret, I came across a scene from early 2001 in which the Qaeda leader, apparently somewhere near Kandahar, framed against an azure sky in the flowing white robes of an ancient prophet, spoke to a gathering that seemed to include would-be suicide bombers, hailing a reckoning that lay ahead for America, and for them. I included that anecdote in an article I wrote in the days before 9/11, when its imminent significance was not apparent. The article was on the pending list at The Times's foreign desk when the planes hit the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and it did not appear in the paper.
The following year, my haphazard pursuit took me on a trek into the mountains at Tora Bora in eastern Afghanistan, where American military might came closer to killing Bin Laden in December 2001 than at any time until the raid last week in Abbottabad, Pakistan. Frustrated by conflicting accounts as to whether Bin Laden had died in the American bombing at Tora Bora or had fled into the tribal areas of Pakistan along the frontier with Afghanistan, Times editors assigned me that spring to sort truth from fiction.
Starting at Bin Laden's devastated hideout in the foothills, littered with paper fragments in Arabic and the detritus from a clinic that appeared to have been used for the kidney dialysis he was rumored to need, I set out along the path he would have taken up the mountain to the 14,000-foot saddle leading on to Pakistan.
All along the way, I met villagers who swore they knew the ''sheik,'' meaning Bin Laden, and several who said they had seen him, on horseback, riding up the rocky pathway with several other horsemen, and on into the Pakistan tribal area of Waziristan. The villagers appeared to have liked him, worshiped him even, a portent of how fraught the attempt to track him down over the following years would prove to be.
A few weeks earlier, I had another virtual encounter with the evanescent sheik, in a rented house on the prosperous outskirts of Faisalabad, a city that lies, like Abbottabad, a few hours' drive from Pakistan's tribal frontier. Forty-eight hours earlier, the house had been the target of a raid led by the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. that captured Abu Zubaydah, the fourth-highest-ranking Qaeda leader -- after Bin Laden, his Egyptian deputy Ayman al-Zawahri and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the operational mastermind of 9/11.
Abu Zubaydah, who was shot in the raid, was later one of three men, including Mr. Mohammed, to be waterboarded by the C.I.A. without volunteering anything about the whereabouts of Bin Laden. But I have often wondered -- as I did again, after seeing the photographs of the scruffy, boarding-house-looking interior of the house the Seal team raided in Abbottabad -- about the roster of Arab names that had been chalked up in the Faisalabad kitchen assigning mealtime duties. Among them, intriguingly, was the single word, ''Osama.''
Reviewing all this over recent days, my thoughts have gone back, as much as anywhere, to that one-and-only direct encounter in 1989. In light of what transpired at Abbottabad, several things stand out:
First, the fact that access to the camp lay through a C.I.A. contact involved in America's financing and arming of the mujahedeen; Bin Laden and his cohorts were then, at least notionally, America's men. Second, Bin Laden's hostility toward the United States, manifested by his sullen demeanor in the presence of an American reporter. Third, the close liaison, then and later, between the jihadis and the ISI, Pakistan's spy agency, which acted as a conduit for American and Saudi backing of the mujahedeen.
For the moment, attention is focused on nagging questions about the raid: whether, without a weapon in his hands, Bin Laden might have been taken alive; and whether, with the man now dead, he will prove a lasting icon for Al Qaeda and its affiliates, or, with his leadership extinguished, the movement will become a growing irrelevance, at least in the politics of the Arab world, amid the democratic currents now inspiring the Arab Spring.
Along with these, and perhaps most pressing in its implications for America's relations with Pakistan, the war in Afghanistan and the struggle with Al Qaeda, there is a further question: whether the ISI knew all along that Bin Laden was ''hiding in plain sight'' -- for as long as five years, as his wounded Yemeni wife is said to have told Pakistani interrogators -- in a town, Abbottabad, that is one of Pakistan's principal army garrisons.
Making sense of the jumble of justifications from senior Pakistani officials is a fool's errand. Some have said Bin Laden's presence in Abbottabad took the country's security establishment by surprise; others, including at least two former ISI chiefs, say it is inconceivable that the spy agency did not know. Still others have said that Bin Laden's success in hiding in a city in Pakistan's interior was the result of basic mistakes by Pakistan or, conversely, that it can be traced to America's decision not to share with Pakistan the intelligence that led to pinpointing Abbottabad as ground zero of the manhunt.
Pakistan's double-dealing is hard to contest. The country has absorbed more than $20 billion in American and other Western aid since 9/11, a crucial buttress to its fragile economy, yet it has been ''looking both ways,'' in the words of Britain's prime minister, David Cameron, on the terrorism spawned on its soil and across the border in Afghanistan. A WikiLeaks release of military field reports last year offered new evidence of the ISI's role as a patron of Pakistan-based Taliban groups, and Al Qaeda. While few would have imagined its complicity might extend to sheltering Bin Laden, Pakistan's trustworthiness as an ally has long been questioned in Washington.
And yet: The view from Washington is not the only one useful for Americans seeking a way through this thicket. There is Pakistan's viewpoint, too. Just as America once found it expedient to make allies of men like Bin Laden, training and arming them even while knowing that the jihadis' embrace of violence in the name of fundamentalist Islam included an enmity for the West at least equal to their loathing of the Soviet Union, so powerful forces at the heart of Pakistan's government have long found reasons to put expedience in the forefront of its relations with the Islamic militants.
In the West, the Pakistani approach is often judged as misguided and self-defeating. But it has more than a faint resonance with America's erstwhile willingness to sup with the devil of jihadism during the cold war, when a Soviet defeat in Afghanistan, for Washington, was an existential and obsessive issue. And so, in many ways, it has been for Pakistan, as it has fashioned its own relationship with the jihadis.
Since Pakistan's founding in 1947, strategic thinking there has been fixated on the country's bitter rivalry with India. Defeats in three wars have combined with lopsided Indian advantages in population, economic strength and conventional military power to convince Pakistan's leaders, or at least its generals, to seize every offsetting advantage they can. Central among these has been the ''strategic depth'' that has been seen to flow from enhancing Pakistan's influence in Afghanistan, its western neighbor.
Because Afghanistan's most powerful ethnic group is the Pashtuns, whose own national myth includes an irredentist ambition to reunite with Pakistan's Pashtuns, playing for advantage in the politics of Afghanistan is central to Pakistan's strategy to guard against the fissiparous forces that threaten it from within.
So while America seeks the defeat of Islamic militancy, many of Pakistan's leaders have convinced themselves that theirs must be a longer game. Remembering how America abandoned Afghanistan after the Soviet withdrawal, these Pakistanis believe that their interest lies in hedging their bets as to who will ultimately rule in Kabul and Kandahar.
If that helps explain how Bin Laden came to be sojourning in his fortress at Abbottabad, something else I have encountered often since 1989 seems worth bearing in mind as America weighs the consequences of having finally caught and killed him. The comfortable belief among many Americans has been that Bin Laden and all his works are anathema to many in the Muslim world, as indeed they are. If there was no sign of rejoicing in Cairo or Istanbul or Jakarta at the news of his death, there was little mass protest, either. The murderous mindset that brought 9/11 has reaped thousands upon thousands of Muslim victims in their homelands, too, as President Obama pointed out.
Still, the anguish over the Qaeda-inspired killings coexisted paradoxically with a widely expressed personal admiration for Bin Laden while he lived, as the embodiment of attitudes that had a wide resonance in the Muslim world: a willingness to stand up against what many see as the bullying power of the West, and an ability to articulate, in a lyrical Arabic that drew heavily on the language of the Koran, the grievances many Muslims feel about American policies on oil and the Israeli-Palestinian struggle, and toward America's longstanding support for corrupt and repressive Arab regimes. He was also celebrated for an element of personal bravery and self-denial in forswearing the comforts of his Saudi Arabian inheritance for the rigors, and now the obliteration, of life on the run.
There have been fewer Bin Laden posters for some time now in the car windows and storefronts of the Arab world, suggesting that these feelings are less intense now than they have been for much of the past 20 years, especially with the successes of the Arab Spring and the new path it is charting to Arab renewal. But if the West does not address the anger that Bin Laden articulated more forcefully and violently than almost any other Muslim leader of his time, his legend may well live on, and not just among the dispossessed.
One measure of this, for me, goes back to a dinner party shortly after 9/11 in Islamabad, the Pakistani capital, where many of the Pakistani guests were active or retired generals. As the whiskey flowed, tongues loosened, and the views made for deeply uncomfortable hearing. The attacks in New York and Washington, one man said, had ''taught the Americans a lesson.'' Another officer's wife drew murmurs of assent when she said, ''America had it coming.''
With attitudes like these, I thought last week, was it so odd that Bin Laden chose for his final sanctuary the garrison town of Abbottabad, where he may have judged that powerful people might be prepared to look the other way?
Correction: May 15, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the quest for Osama bin Laden misstated the number of interviews that reporters had with him after Sept. 11, 2001. It was at least two, conducted by journalists from Pakistan and from Al Jazeera in the two months after the attacks; it was not the case that no reporters interviewed Bin Laden after the attacks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIDDLE EAST BROADCASTING CORPORATION, VIA REUTERS, WARRICK PAGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES AND MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK1) DRAWINGS: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOLA LOPEZ) (WK1)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHAN DOYLE)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SMUGGLING (70%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (57%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); YEMEN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



204 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Frogs, Chessboards and Grids

BYLINE: By VICTORIA LIVSCHITZ. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I COME from a family of mathematicians. My mother taught math in middle school, high school and college, and my father was a math professor. He was also a poet, a musician and a chess player -- a true renaissance man who had an extraordinary influence on me. I'd come home from school to find him listening to orchestra music while following along with the musical score and pretending he was conducting.
My parents, one brother and I lived in a three-room apartment, which was common at the time. My father and I were always involved in engineering projects and spent a lot of time outdoors fishing, hunting for mushrooms and picking berries. I kept hedgehogs, wild rabbits and frogs under my bed. 
My father taught me to play chess when I was about 3, and I joined an after-school, government-run chess club when I was 6. When I was 10, we moved to Lithuania, where I became a youth champion seven years later, in 1988.
As I grew older, my father was concerned that I might never have any marriage prospects, so he tried to interest me in domestic activities. He gave me pots and pans on my birthday and taught me to cook. Once we sewed a suit as a present for a cousin's birthday.
It turned out he didn't have to worry -- I married at 19. I had met my future husband, Leonard, on the first day of an international chess tournament in Bulgaria. I was attending Vilnius University in Lithuania, and Leonard was from Ukraine. He proposed on the last day of the tournament, and we were married shortly afterward. We left for the United States in 1991, when the Soviet Union was collapsing and America was in a recession.
For a while, Leonard delivered pizza, and I worked at a dry cleaners in Cleveland and finished college at Case Western Reserve University. We wanted to give chess lessons, but we needed to advertise, so we asked a local activist and chess player to sponsor an exhibition in a city park one Sunday. I had 26 opponents and played them all at once. I won 20 games, lost three and had three draws. Standing on the sidelines, Leonard announced the opening of our chess academy and signed up students.
In college, I discovered programming, which captivated me. After graduating in 1994, I got a job at the Ford Motor Company in a fast-track management program for high-potential college graduates. After four years, I decided I didn't want to be a manager; I wanted to create technology. I joined Sun Microsystems and became chief architect for the General Motors account. While there, I also worked on Wall Street trading systems and a fraud-detection system for a credit card company.
At Sun, we were working on cloud computing, in which a company's computer functions are performed in an offsite network, allowing it to perform tasks on a large scale and handle a huge amount of Internet traffic. I knew cloud computing was the way of the future.
In 2006, I left Sun and started Grid Dynamics. The name signifies the large resources that a computer network, or grid, supplies, and the dynamic nature of those resources. Microsoft and eBay are two of our clients. Our corporate headquarters is in Silicon Valley, but our engineering headquarters is in Russia.
Last year, we tried to merge with another company but it didn't work out. The attempted merger drained a lot of resources. I gained an appreciation of how important it is to have one culture in an organization.
My father had no fear of failure. I inherited some of that, which has made me step out of my comfort zone and try new things. On the whole, it has served me well in business and in life.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VICTORIA LIVSCHITZ: Chief executive of Grid Dynamics in Fremont, Calif. AGE: 40 BIRTHPLACE: Kharkov, Ukraine FAVORITE BAND: Abba RECENTLY READ: ''No One Would Listen'' by Harry Markopolos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MUSIC (90%); BOARD GAMES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (86%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); ENGINEERING (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (66%); CLOUD COMPUTING (64%); EXHIBITIONS (61%); MUSHROOMS (54%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (62%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (62%); F (NYSE) (62%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (62%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); LITHUANIA (90%); UKRAINE (90%); BULGARIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



205 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY CRITIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: George Jetson, Your Room Is Ready

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER. 
Ariel Kaminer is on leave.

 BODY:
We've all had this dream for so long that some of us have probably forgotten about it. It's the dream that someday we'll be able to navigate New York without ever being at the mercy of a rude cabdriver, an indifferent waiter or a butterfingered bellhop.
It is, in short, the dream of a robotic New York. A hotel opening soon in Midtown has an amusing lobby gimmick called Yobot that suggests we may yet find our way to that ''Jetsons'' future. 
You remember ''The Jetsons,'' the cartoon from the early 1960s about a space family surrounded by not-yet-invented gear that included Rosey the Robot. Any kid who ever saw the show assumed that everything in it would soon come to pass: the video phones, the push-button food and, of course, the labor-saving robots. The first two we have, more or less, but humans are still tasked with much of our daily drudgery.
In the glass-front lobby of Simon Woodroffe's Yotel, at 10th Avenue and 41st Street, a self-service robot named Yobot stands ready to rack guests' luggage into storage bins so they don't have to haul it around town if they've arrived before check-in or want to catch a matinee after checkout.
It's just a robotic arm, not humanoid like Rosey, and it's as much entertainment for passers-by as it is utilitarian. Your bag goes on a slab that Yobot then picks up and slides into one of 133 lockers, usually with a flourish of dipping, twisting and other acrobatics. You get back a bar-coded ticket, which you insert into the system when you want Yobot to return your bags.
But it's a significant step toward that blissful day when robots might routinely drive our cabs, bring our coffee, carry our bags and so on -- no tipping, no mistakes and, best of all, no attitude. Robots of various sorts have been in use in fields like manufacturing and medicine for years, but the breakthrough here is that Yobot is made so that anyone can master it.
''It's not what the robot is doing,'' John Phelps, who designed the thing, said during a demonstration for City Critic on Tuesday. ''It's having a new operator come in without any pretraining and be able to make it do what it does. We have a new operator coming in every minute.''
Mr. Woodroffe, a British entrepreneur whose YO! Sushi restaurants were using robotics as early as 1997, saw Yobot in action for the first time that day and seemed to enjoy the show. His first question to Mr. Phelps wasn't about technical matters or cost; it was, ''Did you have fun doing it?''
That spirit, Mr. Woodroffe hopes, will permeate the hotel, which opens June 1 and will have 669 rooms. It's the fourth hotel in the chain, the first in the United States, and the pitch is high-tech stylishness on a budget. The standard rooms show Yotel's signature maximum use of minimal space; the introductory rate is $149 a night (less than a third of a recent Web quote from the Marriott Marquis a few blocks away). A couple of tables in the sleek dining room sink into the floor so the space can become a dance floor late at night. Flip a conference room tabletop and it turns into a billiard table.
As for Yobot and the other gizmos, like touch-screen check-in rather than the traditional front desk, Mr. Woodroffe said, ''I think the robotics you see there are absolutely the tip of the iceberg.'' And, based on the reaction to his sushi robots, he thinks they'll be embraced. ''People actually loved them,'' he said, ''and interestingly, the most commonly said thing was 'Can we buy one?' ''
David Greenbaum didn't have quite enough luck getting people to buy robots at Robot Village, a store he opened in 2004 on West 81st Street; it didn't survive the recession, and the space is now occupied by a foot massage place. But the interest was there, especially among children (''I didn't realize the average height of a client was going to be three to four feet,'' he said), and now his business has evolved into giving robot presentations, classes, even birthday parties. He, too, still sees robots ahead.
''Robots are still in their infancy,'' Mr. Greenbaum said, adding, ''I think we'll be wowed in our lifetime.''
Now let's swat away a few objections to the robot-assisted future. First, there's the complaint that people want human contact. Nonsense. All we do these days, in a crowd, at a party, even during a face-to-face conversation, is poke at our electronic devices. Human interaction is so last century.
Second, there are probably some folks who enjoy being verbally abused by service-industry workers. No problem. Rosey actually had quite a mouth on her, and some of Mr. Woodroffe's sushi robots greeted customers unprintably. If you want insufferable robotic service, some niche robot-makers will surely pop up to provide it.
Finally, jobs. It's not as if Yotel will have no human employees. Nigel Buchanan, the hotel's operations director, said the hope was that automating some grunt work would enable those humans to focus on hospitality.
But, yeah, some would-be actors might have to find something else to do when all our waiters and doormen are robots. Frankly, though, we have rather a surplus of would-be actors in this town anyway. And, hey, they could always become foot masseurs. Some jobs will always need a human touch.
E-mail: metropolitan@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MIGHTY BELLHOP: Rosey the Robot he isn't, but the Yobot luggage handler, above and left, gives the Yotel in Manhattan a futuristic feel. Nigel Buchanan, the hotel's operations director, demonstrated Yobot, who hoists bags into storage bins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBOTICS (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



206 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Florida Lawmakers Approve Deep Cuts in Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- A bill that would establish some of the deepest and most far-reaching cuts in unemployment benefits in the nation is heading for the desk of Gov. Rick Scott. 
The Republican-controlled House and Senate passed the compromise measure just before the legislative session ended Friday night.
The legislation would cut maximum state benefits to 23 weeks from 26 when the jobless rate is 10.5 percent or higher.
If lower, the maximum would decline on a sliding scale until bottoming at 12 weeks if the jobless rate was 5 percent or less.
Both chambers were agreeable to a sliding scale, but the House wanted to cut the maximum to 20 weeks while the Senate wanted to keep it at 26.
The benefit reduction is expected to cut unemployment taxes paid by employers, but not until next year.
Florida has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country, 11.5 percent, and already had some of the lowest unemployment benefits.
Critics called the legislation cruel and wrongheaded. But its supporters -- including the bill's sponsor, Representative Doug Holder, Republican of Sarasota -- argued that it was needed to help businesses and to aid job creation.
Mr. Holder had said earlier that the average amount of time people remain on unemployment in Florida was 17.7 weeks and that most people would be unaffected by the legislation, at least in terms of how long they would collect benefits.
As of late March, more than 535,000 Floridians were receiving unemployment benefits.
Worker advocacy groups fought the legislation. But the business community, led by the Florida Chamber of Commerce, made passing the House version of the bill a priority, contending that businesses would benefit greatly from relief from the escalating tax to pay for jobless compensation.
Governor Scott also supported the House version.
Last week, with the legislative session winding down, the legislation bounced between both chambers of the Legislature -- being retooled each time -- until the compromise measure was approved in the waning hours of the session Friday night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); APPROVALS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



207 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Far From Perfection, but Closer to Vindication

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If Jim Qualls had a penny for every time he was mentioned for breaking up Tom Seaver's perfect game, he might be a bit more solvent while he drives a tractor in western Illinois.
No Met has ever pitched a no-hitter, but Seaver came close, only to have Qualls smack a single with one out in the ninth inning on July 9 of that amazing 1969 season.
A few weeks later, Seaver and Qualls crossed paths while jogging in the outfield before a game, and Seaver laughingly called him a name and said, ''You cost me a million dollars.'' Ballplayer humor. 
That was the only time they ever met. Now Seaver owns a winery, and Qualls, 64, is a tenant farmer, after suffering hard economic times.
''I didn't qualify for a pension and I never expected one,'' Qualls said the other day while waiting for the rain to subside so he could plant soybeans near the Mississippi River.
Qualls, who played in 63 games in bits of three seasons, is among approximately 850 former major leaguers whose lives have improved slightly in the past month because of a financial agreement for those who fell through baseball's safety net. Some older players are emphatically not happy with the terms.
The issue is what contemporary athletes owe players who came before them. Some modern players acknowledge their predecessors' low salaries and poor medical treatment. Others are busy building mansions and accumulating expensive cars and do not remember Jackie Robinson, much less Jim Qualls.
Survivors like Qualls have been a goad to some consciences in Major League Baseball and its players association. They have not been eligible for pensions because they did not play the minimum four years from 1947 through 1979.
They were excluded from a 1980 labor agreement that made players eligible for health care after playing one game in the majors and for a pension with 43 days on a major league roster -- but not retroactively.
Later, Negro leagues players, who had been excluded until 1947 under the shameful national pattern of segregation, were given cash settlements, far short of pensions. Qualls, who is white, understands the desire to make things better for Negro leaguers, but he scuffles while modern players make eight-digit annual salaries.
''Some guys had college educations, some guys did all right,'' Qualls said of his contemporaries who fell short of pensions. But many other players -- who had some highly visible days or even a few years in the majors -- went back to normal life, many of them with injuries from their sport.
In 2003, some disgruntled old-timers filed a suit. Qualls twice chipped in a few hundred dollars, which he could not afford, to help pay for a lawyer. That suit was tossed out in court, and only served to harden the lines as the players association and M.L.B. protected their very separate interests.
Meantime, Qualls was farming. Once a year or so, he would be invited to a collector show in Chicago -- another marginal old Cubbie sitting at a table, signing cards. He and Seaver have never been invited to the same card show, although they are linked in history.
In 1969, Qualls was a skinny rookie, an infielder told to play the outfield by Leo Durocher, the haughty old manager of the Cubs, who were in the process of being caught by the Mets. On July 9, in front of the biggest crowd to date at Shea Stadium, Qualls smacked a clean hit to left-center.
''The Mets have won seven straight, and the Cubs have lost five straight,'' a young baseball writer named Vecsey wrote in The New York Times the next day. ''And after the near-perfect game, who knows where these opposite kinds of momentum might lead?''
The Mets won the World Series. Qualls played bits of 1970 with Montreal and 1972 with the Chicago White Sox -- the epitome of the 2010 book ''A Bitter Cup of Coffee: How MLB and the Players Association Threw 874 Retirees a Curve,'' by Douglas J. Gladstone, a state worker and writer in Albany.
Gladstone's book recalled the hard feelings from the 2003 suit. Progress began when Donald Fehr, who had rigidly maintained that the union had no mandate to work for the excluded players, retired as the executive director, to be replaced by Michael Weiner, its former counsel.
''People passing away -- the vicissitudes of life,'' Weiner said. ''Let's get something done now'' rather than lump the Qualls generation into collective bargaining after the 2011 season.
Weiner discovered that Commissioner Bud Selig was of the same mind.
''Bud said this was a joint responsibility,'' said Rob Manfred, baseball's executive vice president for labor relations and human resources. Also involved were the leaders of the players' alumni association, Dan Foster and Eddie Robinson, who is a former player and general manager. Manfred also praised Bobby Brown, the cardiologist, World Series hitting star with the Yankees in the late 1940s and former American League president, for speaking up for his generation.
The solution was to use money from the competitive balance tax -- sometimes called a luxury tax -- collected from wealthier teams whose payrolls go above guidelines. It will finance a two-year program of sliding-scale payments to the players -- $750 for every quarter of a season, up to $10,000 a year for players who fell just below the four-year minimum.
It is by no means a settlement or a pension. And many old-timers, particularly those close to four years' service, angrily insist that contemporary wealthy players have stiffed them. Given their high tax bracket, modern players could probably finance a painless way to assure pensions for their predecessors.
Qualls is way past bitterness over his not-so-brief cup of coffee. He has some memories -- that hard shot off Seaver in a yowling Shea Stadium -- when he lets them in. He did not do the math, but Gladstone estimated that Qualls would receive about $4,500 a year for the next two years. It would help, Qualls admitted. And if anybody could get him and Seaver at the same table at a card show, the tractor would still be waiting when Qualls got back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jim Qualls, 64, above, is a tenant farmer in western Illinois. On July 9, 1969, he broke up Tom Seaver's perfect game in the ninth inning as a member of the Cubs. Qualls is among a group of older players now receiving modest compensation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW HOLST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ATHLETES (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); SOYBEAN FARMING (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); LITIGATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



208 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Casualties of the Good Life

BYLINE: By MEGAN MAYHEW BERGMAN. 
Megan Mayhew Bergman's first story collection, ''Birds of a Lesser Paradise,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:
THIS LIFE IS IN YOUR HANDS
One Dream, Sixty Acres, and a Family Undone
By Melissa Coleman
Illustrated. 325 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $25.99.
Melissa Coleman's father, Eliot, once suggested that evidence points to ''the return to the land as a cyclical urge in history.'' Some families work the land out of necessity, while others seek ''the good life'' through labor and simplicity. In the 1840s, Thoreau took to the woods to ''live deliberately.'' During the Great Depression, self-sufficiency was raised to new importance, and well-educated men like the writer and editor Elliott Merrick and the economist Ralph Borsodi found homesteading a rational and intellectual pursuit. The political climate of the late 1960s (and later the energy crisis of the '70s) provoked back-to-the-land desires in many, including Eliot Coleman, who, inspired by Helen and Scott Nearing's book ''Living the Good Life,'' moved in 1968 with his pregnant wife, Sue, to a remote 60-acre wood in coastal Maine. There, they developed sustainable, small-scale farming techniques that would help catalyze the organic movement. 
A few months after Eliot broke ground for his family's 400-square-foot cedar-and-pine cabin, Melissa was born at home, arriving ''on the same day as a large delivery of strawberry plants, asparagus roots and fruit trees that needed to be planted immediately.'' A day later, the goats began to kid. Baby Melissa was instantly swept into the rhythms of the homesteading life.
Coleman's memoir is not one of trendy virtue, but of authenticity. There is no part-time artisanal cheesemaking here, no model trading Louboutins for Bean Boots. Her expressive prose and knowledge of farming techniques give vivid color to her family's alternative lifestyle and unusual milieu. She describes berry-stained fingers, rich compost, ''wet-pebble shelves full of fresh produce,'' ''the black twist of garter snakes in the grass.''
But as the memoir reveals, the price of purity was steep. Coleman's book is chiefly driven by two questions. The first regards a quest: Does ''the secret of how to live'' exist in the memories of her childhood? The second involves the death of her 3-year-old sister, Heidi, who drowned in the family pond: Who, if anyone, was responsible?
While questions surrounding Heidi's death are in due course answered, Coleman does not provide a satisfying answer to her original question: how to live. After the heartbreak of her sister's death and parents' divorce, what wisdom does she bring to her own role as a wife and mother? Outside of basic biographical notes, readers will learn little of how she has put the lessons of the farm to practice. She offers only vague conclusions: ''If we feed the earth, it will feed us''; ''though the earth demands its sacrifices, spring will always return.''
The author's greatest challenge is to evoke her years at Greenwood Farm from a youthful perspective. When this works, we understand the eccentricities of her childhood: her glee at the sight of the U.P.S. man, the magic of elevator buttons and flushing toilets, the sight of apprentices ''harvesting carrots in the nude.'' Her prose also amplifies the anguish of Heidi's death: ''The lines of Papa's face were blurred with tears, the curve of his steel hair gone flat. . . . His body didn't understand such pain, the arch of his back was fetal.'' But the voice can become tedious when divorced from critical action or revelation (as in passages about Heidi's imaginary playmate).
Coleman presents her family's bucolic existence along with a dose of reality that strips the dew off the produce: the homesteading life was grueling and ultimately tore her family apart. There was pressure to sell food and store enough for survival in winter. Money for seeds and supplies was limited. Health insurance was nonexistent. Even as a child, Coleman sensed a ''precarious balance'' in the relationship of her well-intentioned parents: ''To succeed at this life, they had to constantly feed their vision of it, or it would wither and die.''
She analyzes their actions honestly and generously. Eliot, eager to spread his gardening expertise, possessed ''supernatural energy'' that was hard to match. But his guru status put him at odds with his wife and the privacy she craved. Sue, exhausted from child rearing and manual labor, crumbled. Coleman remembers ''a screaming in my heart'' as meals became silent and her parents' marriage dissolved.
In her reminiscence, readers will find a world rendered with sublimity, a fusion of beauty and domestic menace. She may fall short in her quest to articulate a prescriptive mode of living, but she fluently describes ''the lump in the throat behind everything beautiful in life'': the power of the natural world, familial love and heartbreak, grace after loss. Above all, she reminds us that the return to simplicity is often anything but simple.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Coleman at Greenwood Farm with her father and younger sister, Heidi. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF MELISSA COLEMAN
 FROM ''THIS LIFE IS IN YOUR HANDS'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WRITERS (78%); MEN (78%); MAMMALS (74%); STRAWBERRY FARMING (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (66%); CHEESE MFG (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

TITLE: This Life Is in Your Hands: One Dream, Sixty Acres, and a Family Undone (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



209 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ACTS OF MILD SUBVERSION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: HOW TO BEAT HIGH AIRFARES

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
Air travel remains a necessity, even as it gets ever more expensive. First, the cost of flights, which fell throughout most of the 2000s relative to inflation, is climbing once again thanks to higher fuel prices. And then there are the added fees for everything from checked baggage to those vile croissanwiches.
Well, there's a way to save some of that money. It's called ''hidden-city ticketing,'' but before I explain how to execute the maneuver, you're going to need some background. Passengers flying to or from airports that are dominated by a single carrier -- like Memphis, Newark or Dallas/Fort Worth -- pay fares 20 or 30 percent higher than at non-hub airports. The prices are even more inflated when you're flying from a smaller city with a limited number of flights. A nonstop one-way ticket from Des Moines to Dallas/Fort Worth is $375 on American Airlines, for example -- more than the $335 Delta will charge you to fly from Miami to Anchorage. 
But what happens when you're interested in flying American from Des Moines to Los Angeles, which hosts a more competitive airport? That flight is only about half the price ($186), despite its being more than double the distance. Now, here's the trick: American flights from Des Moines to L.A. have a layover in Dallas. If you want to travel to Dallas, the best way to get a reasonable fare is to book the flight to Los Angeles instead, and simply get off the plane at Dallas.
Making a habit of this certainly won't endear you to the airlines. Most of them -- the major exception being free-spirited Southwest Airlines -- expressly forbid it in their ticketing rules. But those rules don't carry the force of law, and most travel lawyers say that their recourse is limited. They could probably preclude you from flying with them in the future, but their case for demanding penalties is weak, and the risk of detection is low if you don't book these kinds of routes more often than a couple of times per carrier per year. Just remember these tips for successfully executing the phantom flight trick:
1. Look to employ the switcheroo when your final destination is at a hub airport dominated by just one or two carriers, like Atlanta, Cleveland, Salt Lake City, Charlotte, Detroit, Cincinnati or Chicago O'Hare, all of which have overpriced tickets.
2. When you're traveling to one of those cities, you should search for phantom flights into airports that are more competitive -- New York, Miami, Las Vegas and Boston are good examples. Search engines like Kayak.com will allow you to select your routing through your desired layover airport.
3. Book your itinerary as a set of two one-way flights, rather than as a round trip. If you miss any segment of your itinerary, the airline will usually cancel the rest of it.
4. Don't check your bags, because they'll find their way to the final destination listed on your itinerary. And get to your gate early, lest the overhead bins fill up.
5. Don't lie if you get caught -- travel lawyers agree that misstating your intentions could leave you facing fraud charges. Instead, proudly state that you're doing your part to help the airlines understand the inefficiencies in their pricing structures, and that you're bringing exorbitant fares more in line with the free market.
All of the fares are based on a kayak.com search for one-way flights on June 15. In each case, the price reflects the cheapest fare for the day on the carrier listed. The search was conducted on April 20.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LA TIGRE)
 MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); AIR SERVICE (74%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (72%); LAWYERS (63%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); KAYAK SOFTWARE CORP (50%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); KYAK (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



210 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; SUMMER STAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 5274 words

HEADLINE: Classical Music

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
Arizona
GRAND CANYON MUSIC FESTIVAL Aug. 26-Sept. 10. Performers, including the vibrant string band Ethel, will serenade listeners with an eclectic range of music in the scenic Shrine of the Ages near the south rim of the canyon on three consecutive weekends. (800) 997-8285; grandcanyonmusicfest.org.
California
CABRILLO FESTIVAL OF CONTEMPORARY MUSIC Santa Cruz and San Juan Bautista, July 31-Aug. 14. At this new-music mecca, the 20th anniversary of Marin Alsop's leadership will be celebrated with a bevy of premieres by (among others) Mark Adamo, John Corigliano, Michael Daugherty, Avner Dorman and Philip Glass. Fifteen composers in residence (including Christopher Rouse, Pierre Jalbert and George Tsontakis) will also contribute to the festivities for Ms. Alsop, music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra. (831) 420-5260; cabrillomusic.org. 
CARMEL BACH FESTIVAL Carmel-by-the-Sea, July 16-30. Unsurprisingly the festival's namesake figures prominently here, with programs including the ''St. John Passion'' with the tenor Rufus Muller as soloist; he also sings the Cantata No. 55. The lineup also includes the countertenor Daniel Taylor performing Handel arias and a concert meshing Bach and jazz. (831) 624-1521; bachfestival.org.
DAYS AND NIGHTS FESTIVAL Carmel Valley, Aug. 19-Sept. 4. Philip Glass founded this event, which begins its inaugural season with performances by his ensemble and the Days and Nights Players -- who include the violinists Tim Fain and Maria Bachmann and the cellist Matt Haimovitz -- playing repertory from all eras. Works by Mr. Glass, of course, figure prominently. (831) 659-7445; daysandnightsfestival.com.
FESTIVAL DEL SOLE Napa Valley, July 15-24. The mix of visual, culinary and musical offerings here are a true feast for the senses. Patrons can enjoy banquets at restaurants and vineyards; events including a multidisciplinary program called ''Inspired by Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet,'' and performances by the violinist Sarah Chang, the Emerson String Quartet, the guitarist Angel Romero and the Russian National Orchestra. (888) 337-6272; fdsnapa.org.
HOLLYWOOD BOWL June 17-Sept. 24. Every summer the Los Angeles Philharmonic decamps to the Hollywood Bowl. Gustavo Dudamel, the orchestra's charismatic young music director, conducts programs including Lang Lang performing Prokofiev's Piano Concerto No. 3, the soprano Christine Brewer in excerpts from Puccini's ''Turandot'' and Gil Shaham in Mozart's Violin Concerto No. 5. (323) 850-2000; hollywoodbowl.com.
LA JOLLA MUSIC SOCIETY'S SUMMERFEST San Diego, Aug. 3-26. This chamber-music festival celebrates its 25th anniversary with performances by stellar musicians including Gil Shaham, Jennifer Koh, Marc-Andre Hamelin, Alisa Weilerstein, Midori and the Tokyo String Quartet. (858) 459-3728; ljms.org.
MUSIC ACADEMY OF THE WEST Santa Barbara, June 20-Aug. 13. The sound of music echoes through the Miraflores garden estate each summer. Festival highlights include performances by the Takacs Quartet, the soprano Christine Brewer and the pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet. Nicholas McGegan will conduct the Academy Chamber Orchestra in Bach and Beethoven, and Warren Jones will lead a fully staged production of Rossini's ''Barber of Seville.'' (805) 969-8787; musicacademy.org.
MUSIC AT MENLO July 22-Aug. 13. The chamber music luminaries David Finckel and Wu Han are joined here by colleagues from the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. This season Brahms is in the spotlight, with programs featuring his works and those of composers in his sphere of influence. (650) 331-0202; musicatmenlo.org.
OJAI MUSIC FESTIVAL June 9-12. The programming here reflects the eclectic tastes and collaborations of the soprano Dawn Upshaw, the music director of the festival this season. The opening-night concert features music by Purcell, Poulenc, Ives and David Bruce. The lineup also includes a new staged production of George Crumb's ''Winds of Destiny'' (''American Songbook IV'') by Peter Sellars and performances by the Maria Schneider Orchestra, Richard Tognetti and the Australian Chamber Orchestra. (805) 646-2053; ojaifestival.org.
SAN FRANCISCO OPERA May 29-July 3. Fans of the ''Ring'' cycle will be flocking to San Francisco from all over the world for Francesca Zambello's new production of Wagner's epic operas. Donald Runnicles will conduct casts that include Nina Stemme as Brunnhilde, Mark Delavan as Wotan, Ian Storey as Siegfried, Gordon Hawkins as Alberich, Anja Kampe as Sieglinde and Brandon Jovanovich as Siegmund. (415) 864-3330; sfopera.com.
Colorado
ASPEN MUSIC FESTIVAL AND SCHOOL June 29-Aug. 21. David Zinman, the music director of the festival since 1997, resigned last year and has been replaced by Robert Spano. In his inaugural season Mr. Spano, the music director of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra, conducts Mahler's ''Resurrection Symphony'' with Sasha Cooke and Isabel Bayrakdarian. Other highlights include a Baroque evening with Nicholas McGegan and recitals by Marc-Andre Hamelin, Simone Dinnerstein, Jeremy Denk, the Takacs Quartet and the Emerson String Quartet. Jane Glover will lead a production of Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream.'' (970) 925-9042; aspenmusicfestival.com.
BRAVO! VAIL VALLEY MUSIC FESTIVAL June 26-Aug. 3. The New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Dallas Symphony Orchestra decamp to the Rocky Mountains, where the pianist Anne-Marie McDermott -- the festival's new artistic director -- has put together an eclectic repertory exploring (among many others) Beethoven, Mahler and American music. Gabriel Kahane is composer in residence; and visiting conductors and soloists include Alan Gilbert, Rafael Fruhbeck de Burgos, Jean-Yves Thibaudet, Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg and Augustin Hadelich. (877) 812-5700; vailmusicfestival.org.
CENTRAL CITY OPERA June 25-Aug. 7. On offer this summer in the city's intimate jewel-box opera house are new productions of Handel's ''Amadigi di Gaula'' (featuring the soprano Kathleen Kim), Bizet's ''Carmen,'' Kurt Weill's ''Seven Deadly Sins'' and Poulenc's ''Breasts of Tiresias.''(303) 292-6700; centralcityopera.org.
COLORADO MUSIC FESTIVAL Boulder, June 25-Aug. 5. The festival celebrates its 35th anniversary with a lively lineup assembled by the music director Michael Christie. Highlights include a violin minifestival with James Ehnes among the soloists, and a concert featuring the soprano Jessica Rivera in Gorecki's Symphony No. 3 (''Symphony of Sorrowful Songs''). (303) 440-7666; coloradomusicfest.org.
CRESTED BUTTE MUSIC FESTIVAL July 3-Aug. 12. Beer and Beethoven in a barn with a view is what you'll find in this laid-back festival, which includes Jens Georg Bachmann conducting Beethoven's Symphony No. 1 and a performance by the American String Quartet. (970) 349-0619; crestedbuttemusicfestival.com.
Connecticut
CONNECTICUT EARLY MUSIC FESTIVAL New London, June 11-26. Among the early-music treats here are a concert of music by Gabrieli, Monteverdi and Schutz; a staged production of Handel's ''Serse'' by the Arcadia Players; and Sinfonia New York's presentation of Vivaldi's Stabat Mater. (860) 439-2787; ctearlymusic.org.
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF ARTS AND IDEAS New Haven, June 11-25. This multidisciplinary festival features several classical concerts, including Yo-Yo Ma and the Silk Road Ensemble, the Bang on a Can All-Stars and a performance of David T. Little's ''Soldier Songs.'' (203) 562-5666; artidea.org.
MUSIC MOUNTAIN Falls Village, June 19-Sept. 4. This long-running festival features a bevy of string quartets, including the Shanghai, St. Petersburg, Harlem, Penderecki and Cassatt ensembles, with soloists including Misha Dichter and Eugenia Zukerman. (860) 824-7126; musicmountain.org.
Florida
AMELIA ISLAND CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL May 20-June 19. A historic courthouse, a Civil War fort and 19th-century churches are among the picturesque spaces where concerts are held. The lineup includes the Tokyo String Quartet, the pianist Gabriela Montero, the guitarist Sharon Isbin and the adventurous ensemble Eighth Blackbird. (904) 261-1779, aicmf.com.
Idaho
SUN VALLEY SUMMER SYMPHONY July 24-Aug. 16. The free events here are a recession-proof treat for music lovers. The pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet performs in chamber and orchestral programs. The music director, Alasdair Neale, also conducts soloists including Yefim Bronfman. (208) 622-5607, svsummersymphony.org.
Illinois
GRANT PARK MUSIC FESTIVAL Chicago, June 15-Aug. 20. One highlight of the lineup in the Pritzker Pavilion, designed by Frank Gehry, is a concert featuring the Polish composer Krzysztof Penderecki conducting his own work and Beethoven's Symphony No. 3. Other notable events, led by Carlos Kalmar and guest conductors, include Berlioz's ''Symphonie Fantastique,'' Jennifer Koh playing Britten's Violin Concerto, and the Verdi Requiem. (312) 742-7638; grantparkmusicfestival.com.
RAVINIA FESTIVAL Highland Park, June 9-Sept. 11. The festival's music director, James Conlon, concludes his Mahler symphony cycle and conducts Puccini's ''Tosca,'' starring Patricia Racette, Salvatore Licitra and Bryn Terfel. Premieres include Nico Muhly's work for five pianos and orchestra, performed by the 5 Browns and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, which celebrates its 75th anniversary at Ravinia. Other highlights include performances by Lang Lang, Yo-Yo Ma, Emanuel Ax, Joshua Bell and Deborah Voigt. (847) 266-5100; ravinia.org.
Maine
BOWDOIN INTERNATIONAL MUSIC FESTIVAL Brunswick, June 25-Aug. 6. Musicians from ensembles including the New York Philharmonic and faculty members at Juilliard and Eastman participate in this teaching festival. The theme this year is ''Vienna, 150 Years of Musical Glory (1780-1930),'' and highlights include Yefim Bronfman playing Beethoven's ''Emperor'' Piano Concerto with the Bowdoin Festival Orchestra. (207) 725-3895; summermusic.org.
SALT BAY CHAMBERFEST Damariscotta, Aug. 16-26. Concerts take place in a converted cow barn on the banks of 's Great Salt Bay. Performers including the violinist Jennifer Koh and members of the Brentano and Borromeo String Quartets will offer recent works by Pierre Jalbert, Esa-Pekka Salonen and Matthias Pintscher, alongside repertory favorites. (207) 522-3749; saltbaychamberfest.org.
Massachusetts
ASTON MAGNA Great Barrington, Waltham and Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., June 16-July 9. This early-music festival offers period-instrument fans programs of music from the court of Henry VIII and of Italian madrigals and works for violin and harpsichord by J. S. and C. P. E. Bach. (800) 875-7156; astonmagna.org.
BERKSHIRE CHORAL FESTIVAL Sheffield, July 10-Aug. 7. This festival is proof that amateur choral singing continues to thrive, as eager singers arrive from around the country for an intense period of study and performance. Their efforts will culminate in performances of (among others) Mendelssohn's ''Elijah'' conducted by Julian Wachner and Monteverdi's 1610 Vespers led by Kent Tritle. (The festival also takes place in Vancouver, British Columbia; and Salzburg, Austria.) (413) 229-1999; www.choralfest.org.
CAPE COD CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Aug. 1-19. The pianist Jon Nakamatsu and the clarinetist Jon Manasse are the artistic directors of this series of concerts in various towns. They will also perform in a lineup that includes the Tokyo String Quartet and the Borromeo String Quartet. (508) 247-9400; capecodchambermusic.org.
TANGLEWOOD Lenox, June 25-Sept. 4. Snug in the Berkshire Hills, this prominent festival -- the summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra -- is an ideal musical retreat. James Levine (who will step down on Sept. 1 as the orchestra's music director) will lead the opening-night concert, featuring Angela Meade in excerpts from Bellini's ''Norma'' and Verdi's ''Lombardi.'' He will also conduct the symphony in Berlioz's Requiem and Mahler's Symphony No. 5, and the Tanglewood Music Center Fellows in a concert performance of Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande.'' Lorin Maazel conduct's Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 and Nicholas McGegan conducts a concert performance of Handel's ''Orlando.'' The season's starry lineup of soloists includes Susan Graham, Stephanie Blythe, Joshua Bell, Yo-Yo Ma and Itzhak Perlman. New-music lovers will find plenty of interest in Tanglewood's Festival of Contemporary Music. (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org.
Michigan
GREAT LAKES CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Detroit, June 11-26. An appealing array of repertory favorites and contemporary works -- including some by the composers in residence Chen Yi and Zhou Long -- will be performed by top-notch performers like the pianist Jeremy Denk and the ensemble Eighth Blackbird. (248) 559-2097, greatlakeschambermusic.org.
Minnesota
MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA SOMMERFEST Minneapolis, July 8-23. Beethoven is a specialty of Osmo Vanska (the orchestra's music director), and the Minnesota musicians have proved their mettle with extensive Beethoven recordings. Mr. Vanska will conduct the Symphony No. 9, and Andrew Litton, the festival's artistic director, will lead a concert performance of Strauss's ''Rosenkavalier.'' The two will also showcase their talents as instrumentalists: Mr. Litton will perform on piano and Mr. Vanska on the clarinet in chamber music concerts. (612) 371-5656; minnesotaorchestra.org.
Missouri
OPERA THEATER OF ST. LOUIS May 21-June 26. All operas are sung in English at this company, noted for its high standards and casual ambience. Audience members mingle with the casts after shows, which this year include Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' conducted by Jane Glover; Donizetti's ''Daughter of the Regiment'' staged by Sean Curran; Debussy's ''Pelleas and Melisande'' and John Adams's ''Death of Klinghoffer'' conducted by Michael Christie. (314) 961-0644; opera-stl.org.
New Hampshire
MONADNOCK MUSIC July 7-Aug. 14. The Chiara and Borromeo Quartets will perform at this lively festival, where many events, in meetinghouses and churches in the region around Peterborough, are free. Highlights include a performance by Nicholas Kitchen, the Borromeo's first violinist, of selections from Bach's sonatas and partitas for solo violin. (603) 924-7610; monadnockmusic.org.
OPERA NORTH Lebanon, Aug. 6-20. Rising stars in the Opera North Young Artists program will sing in Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro'' and Rossini's ''Cinderella,'' performed in the intimate Lebanon Opera House. (603) 448-0400; operanorth.org.
New Jersey
OPERA NEW JERSEY Princeton, July 9-24. Talented young singers are recruited for summer performances of Rossini's ''Barber of Seville,'' with Marco Nistico as Figaro, and Menotti's ''Consul.'' (609) 258-2787; opera-nj.org.
New Mexico
MUSIC FROM ANGEL FIRE Angel Fire, Taos, Raton and Las Vegas, Aug. 19-Sept. 4. The violinist Ida Kavafian and the pianist Anne-Marie McDermott are among those performing in concerts here, which focus on Bach and Beethoven. The contemporary lineup includes the premiere of a new piano quartet by Roberto Sierra, composer in residence. (888) 377-3300; musicfromangelfire.org.
SANTA FE CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Santa Fe and Albuquerque, July 17-Aug. 22. A host of distinguished visiting artists will perform chamber repertory favorites and new works by composers at this festival nestled in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. Performers include the Shanghai Quartet, the pianist Inon Barnatan and the soprano Dawn Upshaw. (888) 221-9836; santafechambermusic.org.
SANTA FE OPERA July 1-Aug. 27. There are two new productions at this prestigious festival: Gounod's ''Faust,'' directed by Stephen Lawless; and Vivaldi's ''Griselda,'' with Peter Sellars directing a cast including David Daniels, Meredith Arwady, Paul Groves, Amanda Majeski and Isabel Leonard. David Lomeli, who recently shone in New York City Opera's ''Elisir d'Amore,'' sings Rodolfo in Paul Curran's staging of ''La Boheme.'' Also on the lineup are Menotti's ''Last Savage,'' with Jennifer Zetlan, Sean Panikkar and John Del Carlo; and Berg's ''Wozzeck,'' with David Robertson conducting Richard Paul Fink in the title role. (505) 986-5900; santafeopera.org.
New York City
INTERNATIONAL KEYBOARD INSTITUTE AND FESTIVAL July 17-31. Piano devotees flock to Mannes College the New School for Music to enjoy a busy lineup of master classes, lectures and recitals by rising stars and established performers. Liszt, whose bicentennial is celebrated this year, will be a mainstay of programming. Highlights include recitals by Marc-Andre Hamelin and Jon Nakamatsu. (212) 580-0210, ext. 4858; ikif.org.
LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL July 5-Aug. 14. The Cleveland Orchestra will have the first of its Lincoln Center residencies this summer, with its music director, Franz Welser-Most, juxtaposing Bruckner symphonies with works by John Adams. Other major events include the American premieres of Peter Brook's staging of Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' (performed by an ensemble of singers and actors with piano accompaniment) and the Royal Danish Opera's production of Poul Ruders's ''Selma Jezkova,'' an opera based on Lars von Trier's film ''Dancer in the Dark.'' (212) 721-6500; lincolncenter.org.
MARTINA ARROYO FOUNDATION July 14-17. As part of the Prelude to Performance series, talented young artists will sing in fully staged productions of Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' and Puccini's ''La Rondine'' at the Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College. (212) 315-9190; martinaarroyofdn.org.
METROPOLITAN OPERA SUMMER RECITAL SERIES July 11-28. The Met's summer series features six concerts in the five boroughs, kicking off with an event in Central Park starring the soprano Angela Meade. Other performers include the tenor Dimitri Pittas, the mezzo-soprano Renee Tatum and the soprano Layla Claire. metopera.org.
MOSTLY MOZART Aug. 2-27. The festival's namesake receives due attention, of course. Ivan Fischer conducts a staged performance of ''Don Giovanni'' with the Budapest Festival Orchestra and leads the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra in the composer's ''Vesperae Solennes de Confessore.'' Louis Langree conducts the Festival Orchestra in eight concerts, including the opening gala featuring the violinist Christian Tetzlaff. Stravinsky is another focus this year, performed by the adventurous International Contemporary Ensemble. Nicholas McGegan leads the Philharmonia Baroque Orchestra in Handel's ''Orlando.'' And the delightful candlelit Little Night Music series in the Kaplan Penthouse includes the Takacs Quartet. (212) 721-6500; mostlymozart.org.
RIVER TO RIVER FESTIVAL June 19-July 16. The annual Bang on a Can extravaganza tempts new-music lovers with a 12-hour marathon, which includes performances by the Bang on a Can All-Stars and Philip Glass; the street band Asphalt Orchestra; Glenn Branca; the JACK Quartet; and Signal. Also on the classical lineup are New York City Opera soloists performing excerpts from Rufus Wainwright's opera ''Prima Donna.'' rivertorivernyc.com.
New York State
BARD MUSIC FESTIVAL AND BARD SUMMERSCAPE Annandale-on-Hudson, July 7-Aug. 21. In the silver-roofed, Frank Gehry-designed Fisher Center, Leon Botstein, the American Symphony Orchestra and visiting scholars and musicians will explore the music of Sibelius (the focus of the Bard festival) and his famous and little-known contemporaries. Bard SummerScape will present Strauss's opera ''Die Liebe der Danae'' and Noel Coward's operetta ''Bitter Sweet.'' (845) 758-7900; fishercenter.bard.edu.
BRIDGEHAMPTON CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL July 28-Aug. 21. Jeremy Denk, Fred Sherry, Pedja Muzijevic and the quartet Brooklyn Rider are among the performers this season. (212) 741-9403; bcmf.org.
CARAMOOR INTERNATIONAL MUSIC FESTIVAL Katonah, June 25-Aug. 10. This genteel estate is ideal for a quick getaway from the city. Will Crutchfield offers annual bel canto treats with superb singers. This year he conducts Rossini's ''William Tell'' with the Orchestra of St. Luke's; they also perform Gilbert and Sullivan's ''H.M.S. Pinafore.'' Other highlights include Bruch's Violin Concerto with Sarah Chang; the Emerson String Quartet; and a Mahler concert with the tenor Paul Appleby and the mezzo Sasha Cooke. (914) 232-1252; caramoor.org.
CHAUTAUQUA INSTITUTION June 25-Aug. 28. Guest conductors including Miguel Harth-Bedoya, JoAnn Falletta and Gerard Schwarz lead the Chautauqua Symphony Orchestra and soloists in standard and contemporary repertory, including the violinist Augustin Hadelich in Thomas Ades's violin concerto ''Concentric Paths.'' (716) 357-6250; ciweb.org.
GLIMMERGLASS OPERA Cooperstown, July 2-Aug. 23. Francesca Zambello inaugurates her first season as general and artistic director with the premiere of ''A Blizzard on Marblehead Neck,'' a Glimmerglass-commissioned work by the composer Jeanine Tesori and the playwright Tony Kushner, which Ms. Zambello will direct. The lineup also features new productions of Bizet's ''Carmen,'' Cherubini's ''Medea'' (a co-production with the Wexford Festival Opera of Ireland) and John Musto and Mark Campbell's ''Later the Same Evening.'' Deborah Voigt will be Glimmerglass's first artist in residence, and she will star in ''Annie Get Your Gun.'' (607) 547-2255; glimmerglass.org.
JUNE IN BUFFALO June 6-12. Composers have flocked to this festival since 1975, when Morton Feldman founded it as an American version of the Darmstadt festival in Germany. There will be a lively lineup of seminars, workshops and concerts, including Brad Lubman conducting the ensemble Signal. (716) 852-5000; www.music.buffalo.edu/juneinbuffalo.
MAVERICK CONCERTS Woodstock, June 25-Sept. 4. Concerts, which take place in an atmospheric barn built in 1916, celebrate anniversaries of Leonard Bernstein, Mahler and Liszt with repertory including the premiere of a chamber orchestra arrangement of Bernstein's ''Songfest.'' The music director, Alexander Platt, has invited ensembles including the Shanghai and Tokyo String Quartetsand the string band Ethel to perform. (800) 595-4849, maverickconcerts.org.
SARATOGA PERFORMING ARTS CENTER July 27-Aug 13 [DATES FOR THE PHILY RESIDENCY ONLY] The Philadelphia Orchestra and soloists including Yo-Yo Ma, Sarah Chang, Gil Shaham, Emanuel Ax and Gabriela Montero will be led by guest conductors, including Marin Alsop, Charles Dutoit, Rossen Milanov, Giancarlo Guerrero and Stephane Deneve. (518) 587-3330; spac.org.
TANNERY POND New Lebanon, May 28-Sept. 17. The Tannery Pond concert hall, a barn built by Shakers in 1834, is an acoustically fine, charmingly rustic space for chamber music on the spacious grounds of the Mount Lebanon Shaker Village and Darrow School, just southeast of Albany. The lineup includes the soprano Christine Brewer, the pianist Vassily Primakov and the Harlem String Quartet. (888) 820-9441; tannerypondconcerts.org.
WEEKEND OF CHAMBER MUSIC Catskills, July 10-24. The flutist Judith Pearce founded this festival in Sullivan County, where concerts include a tribute to the American composer Lee Hoiby, who died in March. (845) 887-5803; wcmconcerts.org.
North Carolina
APPALACHIAN SUMMER FESTIVAL Boone, June 26-July 30. Musical highlights of the multidisciplinary lineup include the violinist Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg and the mezzo-soprano Susan Graham. The Broyhill Chamber Ensemble's Reflections series features the violinist Gil Morgenstern and the pianist Benjamin Hochman. (828) 262-4046; appsummer.org.
BREVARD MUSIC CENTER June 24-Aug. 7. This summer institute and festival, nestled in the Blue Ridge Mountains, celebrates its 75th anniversary, featuring the cellist Yo-Yo Ma performing Haydn and the pianist Peter Serkin playing Bartok. (828) 862-2131; brevardmusic.org.
EASTERN MUSIC FESTIVAL Greensboro, June 25-July 30. Gerard Schwarz leads the festivities for the festival's 50th anniversary, celebrated with programs featuring the mezzo-soprano Susan Graham and the violinist Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg. There are a number of premieres, including a work by Pierre Jalbert. (866) 579-8499; easternmusicfestival.org.
Ohio
BLOSSOM FESTIVAL Cuyahoga Falls, July 2-Sept. 10. During the Cleveland Orchestra's annual decampment to the Blossom Music Center, its music director, Franz Welser-Most, conducts Bruckner's Symphony No. 9, Leila Josefowicz in John Adams's Violin Concerto and Yuja Wang in Prokofiev's Piano Concerto No. 3. (800) 686-1141; clevelandorchestra.com.
CINCINNATI MAY FESTIVAL May 20-28. James Conlon, music director of this festival (established in 1873) conducts the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra and the May Festival Chorus in Verdi's Requiem, with Stephanie Blythe and Christine Brewer as the powerhouse soloists. Also on the program: Stravinsky's ''Symphony of Psalms,'' Janacek's ''Glagolitic Mass,'' and Mendelssohn's ''Elijah,'' with Ms. Blythe, the bass-baritone Shenyang and the tenor Lawrence Brownlee among the soloists. (513) 381-3300; mayfestival.com.
CINCINNATI OPERA June 16-July 31. The season opens with Verdi's ''Rigoletto,'' featuring Stephen Powell in the title role and Sarah Coburn as Gilda. Jessica Rivera and Eric Owens star in John Adams's ''Flowering Tree,'' and Nathan Gunn sings the title role in Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' conducted by Vasily Petrenko. Bernard Labadie conducts Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' with Nicole Cabell as Pamina. (513) 241-2742(888) 533-7149 is also valid; cincinnatiopera.org.
Oregon
OREGON BACH FESTIVAL Portland, Bend, Ashland and Eugene, June 23-July 10. Bach takes a back seat to other themes, one of which is called ''In Praise of Women.'' Marin Alsop presents a semistaged version of Honegger's ''Joan of Arc at the Stake,'' and Monica Huggett directs the Portland Baroque Orchestra in Purcell's ''Dido and Aeneas.'' Other highlights include Jeffrey Kahane conducting Bach's Magnificat, Yo-Yo Ma performing Osvaldo Golijov's ''Azul'' and Helmuth Rilling (the festival's artistic director) conducting Brahms's ''German Requiem'' and Beethoven's Symphony No. 9. (541) 682-5000; oregonbachfestival.com.
Pennsylvania
BUCK HILL SKYTOP MUSIC FESTIVAL, Buck Hill Falls and Skytop, July 22-30. This recently founded festival offers educational programs, chamber music concerts and opera, including a ''Carmen'' directed by Eric Einhorn. (866) 468-7619; buckhillskytopfest.org.
MANN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING <0>ARTS, starts May 21. The Philadelphia Orchestra, <0>the Pittsburgh Symphony and the Russian National Orchestra will perform at <0>this outdoor site. (800) 745-3000; manncenter.org
.
South Carolina
SPOLETO FESTIVAL USA Charleston, May 27-June 12. There are three major opera presentations this season, including the American premiere of Kaija Saariaho's ''Emilie,'' directed by Marianne Weems and starring the soprano Elizabeth Futral in the title role. The centenary of the birth of Gian Carlo Menotti (who founded the festival) will be honored with a new production of his ''Medium,'' directed and designed by John Pascoe. Also on the lineup is Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' directed by Moshe Leiser and Patrice Caurier. Chamber music concerts feature prominent artists like the St. Lawrence String Quartet, the cellist Alisa Weilerstein and the clarinetist Todd Palmer. (843) 579-3100; spoletousa.org.
Texas
MIMIR CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL Fort Worth, July 4-15. The Norse god of wisdom inspired the name of this teaching festival, with musicians from the Chicago Symphony and the Cleveland Orchestra. (817) 257-5443; mimirfestival.org.
ROUND TOP FESTIVAL INSTITUTE OFFICIAL NAME SEEMS TO BE ROUND TOP FESTIVAL INSTITUTE June 9-July 16$(cq$). Students and professionals collaborate on diverse repertory. One highlight is JoAnn Falletta$(cq$) conducting the Texas Festival Orchestra$(cq$) and the flutist Carol Wincenc$(cq$) in Christopher Rouse's$(cq$) Concerto for Flute and Orchestra$(cq$). (979) 249-3129$(cq$); festivalhill.org$(cq$).
Utah
MOAB MUSIC FESTIVAL Sept. 1-12. Concertgoers here enjoy scenic commutes to events, including a boat ride to the Colorado River Grotto, where a grand piano will be shadowed by a spectacular backdrop of red-hued rocks. Bach will reward listeners who take a short hike to a beautiful outdoor spot. The lineup also features works by David Amram (composer in residence); the Punch Brothers and the virtuoso mandolin player Chris Thile; and chamber music from Bruch, Mendelssohn, Dvorak and Mozart. (435) 259-7003; moabmusicfest.org.
Vermont
CHAMBER MUSIC CONFERENCE AND COMPOSERS' FORUM OF THE EAST Bennington, July 17-Aug. 14. High-level amateurs from diverse musical and professional backgrounds are catered to at this festival, which offers instrumentalists opportunities for performing and coaching. The compositionally inclined can study with the composers in residence, who this summer include Harold Meltzer and Kenneth Frazelle. (212) 927-5053; cmceast.org.
MARLBORO MUSIC SCHOOL AND FESTIVAL July 16-Aug. 14. Rising stars collaborate with prominent artists (like Richard Goode and Mitsuko Uchida, the artistic directors) for exciting intergenerational music making at this festival, one of the country's pre-eminent chamber music events, which celebrates its 60th anniversary this year. The repertory is programmed on short notice, but the standards are high. (802) 254-2394; marlboromusic.org.
YELLOW BARN MUSIC SCHOOL AND FESTIVAL Putney, June 17-Aug. 6. Faculty and guest performers here include the violist Kim Kashkashian,$(cq$) the violinist$(cq$) Anthony Marwood, the pianist Gilbert Kalish$(cq$) and the Jupiter String Quartet$(cq$), which will perform the complete Beethoven string quartets. (802) 387-6637$(cq$); yellowbarn.org$(cq$).
Virginia
CASTLETON FESTIVAL Rappahannock County and Manassas, June 25-July 24. This festival, which takes place primarily at the 550-acre property of Lorin Maazel and his wife, Dietlinde Turban-Maazel, is an extension of the Castleton Residency Program, established by the Maazels' Chateauville Foundation. Mr. Maazel and guest conductors will lead rising star singers in new productions of Puccini's ''Boheme,'' Ravel's ''Enfant et les Sortileges,'' Kurt Weill's ''Seven Deadly Sins,'' Puccini's ''Tabarro'' and ''Gianni Schicchi,'' Falla's ''Master Pedro's Puppet Show'' and Stravinsky's ''Soldier's Tale'' as well as several orchestral concerts. (540) 937-4969; castletonfestival.com.
WOLF TRAP Vienna, May 27-Sept. 11. The National Symphony Orchestra will give 10 performances this season, including a Tchaikovsky program and a concert with the 5 Browns. The Wolf Trap Opera Company offers Wolf-Ferrari's ''Donnecuriose,'' Sondheim's ''Sweeney Todd'' and Offenbach's ''Tales of Hoffmann.'' (703) 255-1868; wolftrap.org.
Washington
OLYMPIC MUSIC FESTIVAL June 25-Sept 4. This informal festival takes place on a historic dairy farm on the Olympic Peninsula, where picnickers, chickens, ducks and mares enjoy chamber music concerts. (360) 732-4800; olympicmusicfestival.org.
Wyoming
GRAND TETON MUSIC FESTIVAL Jackson Hole, July 2-Aug. 20. This festival, nestled in Wyoming's majestic mountains, celebrates its 50th anniversary. It kicks off in style with Donald Runnicles conducting the Grand Teton Music Festival Orchestra in Berlioz, Bernstein, Mozart and Gershwin. Other highlights include Osmo Vanska leading Tchaikovsky, a premiere by Jennifer Higdon and Christine Brewer singing Strauss. (307) 733-1128; gtmf.org.
More classical listings for the summer are available at nytimes.com/music.
Correction: May 29, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A classical music entry in the May 8 ''Summer Stages'' section misstated the opening date of the Olympic Music Festival, in Quilcene, Wash., on the Olympic Peninsula, which ends Sept. 4. It is June 25, not July 25. The entry also misstated the animals on the 55-acre farm. There are chickens, ducks and mares; there are no longer donkeys.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jens Georg Bachman, above, will conduct the Crested Butte Music Symphony Orchestra again in Colorado. The band Dither, left, performing at a Bang on a Can Marathon at the World Financial Center as part of the River to River Festival. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FENLON PHOTOGRAPHY
 STEPHANIE BERGER)(AR30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); FESTIVALS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



211 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2574 words

HEADLINE: Lost in the School Choice Maze

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
ON the last day in March, when most eighth graders in New York City learned where they would be going to high school in the fall, Radcliffe Saddler watched the majority of his classmates rip open thin envelopes and celebrate.
Some students opened thick envelopes just as he did and started crying. Radcliffe, an honors student at Isaac Bildersee Middle School in Canarsie, Brooklyn, was determined to hold in his emotions until he got home.
His trip involved the usual two city buses and took 45 minutes. When he walked into his family's small apartment in East Flatbush, he showed his mother the letter saying he had not gotten into any of the nine schools he had applied to. Then he ducked into his room and cried.
''I felt like I never worked hard enough,'' Radcliffe, 14, said softly a few days later. ''To see other people get in, I feel like I did something wrong.'' 
He may have felt like it, but he was not alone. The Department of Education's dizzying, byzantine system for students to select a public high school left a total of 8,239 -- about 10 percent of the city's eighth graders -- shut out of all their choices, and their parents feeling inadequate, frustrated and angry.
They were told to ponder ''What next?'' -- with just two weeks to research and apply to a new set of schools -- even as the bitter question ''Why?'' still lingered.
The answer is more complicated than the toughest word problem in any high school math class.
In 2004, in an attempt to create more choices for parents beyond the large neighborhood high schools that were seen as dumping grounds, and while trying to make the process more equitable, the Education Department instituted an elaborate process to match students and schools.
Eighth graders are asked to apply to up to 12 schools in order of preference; high schools then rank applicants without seeing where the students ranked them. (This does not include the nine specialized high schools that require separate entrance exams or auditions.)
In some cases, the borough or the district where a student lives gives residents priority. Thirty percent of the city's schools -- usually the most coveted and, therefore, the most competitive to get in -- use a screening process with their own criteria: seventh-grade standardized test scores, grades and attendance, plus open-house visits, essays or exams.
A computer then compares the two rankings, using the same algorithm developed to match medical residents with hospitals.
This year, of the 78,747 students who applied, the computer matched 83 percent to one of their top five choices. An additional 7 percent were matched to schools lower on their lists. The rest, like Radcliffe, were unmatched. Over the past three years, officials said, there has been a slight but steady increase in the number of unmatched students, up from 8 percent last year and 7 percent in 2009.
One new variable this year was the department's publishing of graduation rates in school descriptions, which caused a surge in applications to the best schools, said Robert Sanft, the chief executive of the Office of Student Enrollment. The competition at many of those top schools meant long-to-impossible odds. Baruch College Campus High School, with a 100 percent graduation rate, received the most applications from across the city: 7,606 for 120 seats, giving it an acceptance rate of about 1.6 percent (Harvard, by contrast, accepted 6.2 percent of its applicants.)
But geography was a significant factor for Baruch, especially for those who, like Radcliffe, applied from outside Manhattan. According to Baruch's principal, Alicia Perez-Katz, the school, created for Manhattan's District 2, has not accepted out-of-district students in many years, a fact not mentioned in the Education Department's school profile.
Mr. Sanft said there was no one answer to why so many of the city's children were unmatched. ''It could be a combination of factors,'' he said, ''listing too few choices, overconfidence at reaching the choices for which they might not have qualified, the information available based on their record.''
Despite hosting admissions fairs and offering application guidelines in the encyclopedic 534-page high school directory, which includes 647 programs at 394 schools, plus the nine specialized schools, the department has acknowledged it needs to make its information more accessible to parents. Claudette Saddler, Radcliffe's mother, said she had been overwhelmed by the process.
''This is like a big maze and you are the little creatures just walking around,'' Ms. Saddler said. ''It's like, 'Somebody please help me.' I thought it would be simpler for the parents''
Aiming High to Succeed
The Saddlers stand in the middle of the socioeconomic divide in New York City, between the obsessive upper-middle-class parents who fill out spreadsheets to chart their children's admissions and the uninvolved parents who leave it to guidance counselors to complete the forms.
Radcliffe is the oldest of three boys. Ms. Saddler and her husband, also named Radcliffe Saddler, immigrated to the United States from Jamaica within the past 10 years in part because they wanted to provide a better (and less expensive) education for their children.
Mr. Saddler, a house painter and graphics designer, is struggling to find work and is considering returning to school to get his M.B.A. Ms. Saddler is not working while she finishes her bachelor's degree.
In hindsight, the Saddlers know they made mistakes in the selection process. They said they had trouble arranging open-house visits around their schedules, but thought Radcliffe's excellent grades at Isaac Bildersee -- he had a 94.18 average in seventh grade -- would suffice. But while Radcliffe scored 3.56 out of a possible 4.5 on his state math exam, he scored 2.94 in English; many of the schools he applied to wanted 3s or 4s.
Radcliffe's first choice was Millennium High School in Manhattan, where 5,266 students applied for 150 spots. His ninth and last choice was the program for science and math at Midwood High School in Brooklyn.
His guidance counselor, Watson Mareus, was overloaded by working with more than 350 students. Radcliffe acknowledged that Mr. Mareus originally advised him to consider a broad range of schools, but it felt to him as if he were saying, ''Don't aim too high.''
''If we all didn't aim high,'' Radcliffe said, shrugging his shoulders, ''where would we be?''
Mr. Mareus said in an interview that once Radcliffe submitted his list, signed by his parents, in December, it was not his place to change it.
Still, he said he was shocked when Radcliffe was shut out while students with below-average grades got into Midwood. ''There was nothing I could tell the parents,'' Mr. Mareus said. ''I was baffled.''
Radcliffe was thrown into the so-called supplemental round, in which unmatched students had to select from a list of schools that still had spaces available. Some were new schools without track records, others were large neighborhood schools, and still others were on the city's ''schools in need of improvement'' list. Families had until April 15 to return their new lists of choices to guidance counselors. Schools are now going through a second round of ranking, using the same criteria as in the first.
Students will hear on May 27 where they matched in the supplemental round. (Their assigned schools can be up to 90 minutes from home.) Anyone displeased with a match has until June 3 to appeal. It could take until the end of June for that process to be completed.
Starting the Next Round
With little time last month to dwell on the initial rejection, parents and students got to work. At 6 p.m. on April 5, thousands stormed through the doors of Martin Luther King Jr. Educational Campus in Manhattan like shoppers on the day after Thanksgiving. The schools were grouped by borough on three floors, and the hallways were jampacked.
As the tenacious rushed past the dazed, a man strummed an out-of-tune guitar at the Brooklyn School for Global Studies table, lending a plaintive tone to the already anxious night.
The Saddlers, with Radcliffe's 7-year-old brother, Anthony, in tow, wandered from table to table on the third floor, which had Brooklyn schools.
They passed Norkhila Sherpa of Flatbush, who came from India and entered the seventh grade in the middle of the school year. She finished with an 80 average -- though she now has a 90 -- and that hurt her chances at her seven choices, including Manhattan/Hunter Science High School and Midwood.
The table for the new Brooklyn outpost of Millennium High School was the busiest among the Brooklyn group. With about 40 spots left to fill for the new class of 108 students, the incoming principal, Lisa Gioe, 39, a Brooklyn native and currently the principal at the Math and Science Exploratory Middle School, acted as recruiter and therapist.
She took down names and consoled parents who cried, distraught over their children's being unmatched.
''Brooklyn families are tough and they're trying to figure out what to do,'' Ms. Gioe said. ''They are resilient and they don't take no too often. I love that.''
Steve Jacobson of Ditmas Park, accompanied by his wife, Miriam, and their 13-year-old daughter, Julia, went straight to Ms. Gioe. ''I asked her, 'Are you the decision maker?' '' Mr. Jacobson, 65 and an architect in Manhattan, recalled. ''She said, 'Yes I am.' ''
Julia attends a specialized Manhattan school, Ballet Tech, but had decided to forgo dance in high school. She originally applied to six schools, including some of the most competitive in Manhattan, and Midwood. She had an 88 average in seventh grade, but also 40 tardy days, which may have hurt her.
''The difference between an 87 and 88 to a parent may not be consequential,'' Mr. Sanft said at the fair that night, after he addressed parents' concerns. ''But it may be to a principal deciding between 98 and 99.''
''We can't emphasize enough for parents to maximize their choices,'' he added. ''We can't tell you how often they apply to one or two schools. Ultimately, you are competing with several thousands of candidates, and your child may be a bubble candidate.''
Some schools will eliminate a candidate based on poor attendance or on a record of more than 10 late days. Radcliffe had five absences and was late 19 times in seventh grade. He said he took the city bus alongside commuters who routinely pushed him aside in line and left him waiting for the next one. But neither he nor his parents realized they could explain his circumstances as an unofficial part of his application.
Even though a computer sorts the information, the process also involves a high degree of diligence and strategy from students, parents and guidance counselors, going beyond submitting raw data and showing raw potential.
Ivie Bien-Aime, the parent coordinator at Radcliffe's school, said parents had to be aggressive early in the process, choosing appropriate schools and visiting them. ''There's a grooming phase,'' Ms. Bien-Aime said. ''I tell parents to go to meetings, to open houses, call the principal, let them know you are interested. If they don't see your face, you'll be just another number.''
Information drives any choice system in the marketplace, said Henry M. Levin, a professor of economics and education at Teachers College, Columbia University. In the high school admissions process, information really is power.
''The upper-middle-class families have more of it; they can look at mavens who have gone through the process and can tell others how to game the system,'' Dr. Levin said.
Sean P. Corcoran of New York University and Dr. Levin conducted a study, ''School Choice and Competition in the New York City Schools,'' that showed black and Hispanic students in the city in 2008 tended to rank better-performing schools outside their neighborhood as their first choice, but more often ended up being accepted at local schools more like their middle schools.
It was impossible, Dr. Corcoran said in presenting the findings last month at a New School panel, for every student to go to a school better than his or her middle school, since there were only a small number of competitive high schools.
Still, Dr. Levin said they found the department's system far more equitable than it had been. ''We're never going to make it more level,'' he said. ''What we have to do is make it more nearly level.''
Clara Hemphill, founding editor of Insideschools.org and a longtime observer of school choice, says the problem is a fundamental one: There are not enough good schools. ''The big gap is in good schools for the average student,'' Ms. Hemphill said. ''I spoke to kids this year who had a 92 average and all 4s who didn't get matched anywhere, even though their choices were reasonable,'' she added. ''School choice by itself doesn't fix schools. Even if we gave everybody perfect information, it wouldn't solve the problem.''
New Lists of School Choices
At the supplemental-round fair, Radcliffe and his parents met Rashid Davis, the dynamic 40-year-old principal at P-Tech -- Pathways in Technology -- a new school in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, backed by a $500,000 commitment from I.B.M. and an agreement with City College to offer an associate's degree at the end of six years.
P-Tech gives priority to Brooklyn students and those who attend an information session. The day after the fair, the Saddlers attended a session for the school, which had 46 of 108 spaces open.
P-Tech is a prime example of the city's recent investment in small schools that focus on career-oriented education while it closes larger, struggling schools. P-Tech and the Academy for Health Careers will be at Paul Robeson High School, which is being phased out because of poor performance (it had a 50 percent graduation rate last year).
In the new school, Radcliffe and his parents saw opportunity, and he made it his first choice. ''It's like the new baby coming around,'' Radcliffe said of the city's support. ''They're going to look after it.''
Two days after he submitted six new choices, Radcliffe was told by a teacher that he was in the running to be Isaac Bildersee's valedictorian. ''I felt that my work is paying off,'' he said.
Julia Jacobson, meanwhile, was called in for an interview at Brooklyn Millennium, her first choice in the supplemental round, the day after applications were due.
Her father had carefully managed the process; he worked with Julia on her essay. He asked a friend who is a principal in Brooklyn to write an e-mail on Julia's behalf. He sent Ms. Gioe a note about his being president of the PTA. (Ms. Gioe said in an e-mail that anything extra that parents sent made no difference and that she was looking only at the data to rank students: test scores, grades and attendance.)
Norkhila Sherpa, 14, said she made Clara Barton High School in Brooklyn her top choice because it had a special honors program. ''If it isn't good, then we'll look to transfer,'' she said, not knowing that process was even more complicated.
For the next three weeks, all any of these students, and the thousands like them across the city, can do is wait nervously for the computer to run its algorithms. They have completed the hard part -- twice.
For Mr. and Ms. Saddler, however, the process has just begun. Their middle son, Theodore, is now a seventh grader.
''It's going to be easier next year for my brother,'' Radcliffe said, shaking his head. ''This was an experience that I will never forget.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EIGHTH GRADER: Radcliffe Saddler, an honors student, did not get into any of the high schools he picked. ''I feel like I did something wrong,'' he said.
ROUND 2: With two weeks to research a new list of schools, Radcliffe, near left, with his parents, Claudette and Radcliffe Saddler, and his brother Anthony, joined thousands at a fair in Manhattan. (MB1)
SELECTIVE: Radcliffe Saddler rejected his counselor's original advice to apply to a broad range of schools.
 TENSE: Norkhila Sherpa, 14, her mother, Nima, left, and aunt, Lakpa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) GRAPHIC: Matching Eighth Graders With a High School: New York City's school system is the largest in the country and has arguably the most complicated system for placing students in high school. They can choose up to 12 schools, ranking them in order of preference. The schools then go through their own ranking process, and a computer makes a match. Students who do not get matched initially go through the process again. (Source: New York City Department of Education) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



212 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Hope at the High End, at Least

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT'S housing market went into hibernation during the first quarter of 2011 as sales took a dive and prices continued to deteriorate.
Blame the harsh weather, says Candace Adams, the president of Prudential Connecticut Realty.
''There's always the unpredictable,'' Ms. Adams said, ''and for us, what I will call the Black Swan of 2011 was the weather. We had a snowstorm a week and sometimes two or three a week. That did have an impact on sales for the first quarter of the year.''
Yet while the winter may be part of the reason for the slowdown in an already sluggish market, the same long-term structural problems that are affecting the rest of the country continue to be a drag on Connecticut home sales. The state's foreclosure numbers have improved -- first-quarter filings were down 65 percent, according to RealtyTrac -- but those figures may overstate the degree, Ms. Adams said. 
''We don't know if that's because a lot of banks put a moratorium on foreclosures, and how much of a shadow inventory is out there,'' she said.
All in all, housing market experts say, prospects are dim for a robust rebound this year.
''Many people have poor credit histories at this point and can't qualify for a loan, or are feeling too indebted and don't want to take on more debt,'' said John Clapp, the director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Economic Studies at the University of Connecticut. ''And the other thing is low expectations. In general, I expect us to bounce around on the bottom.''
The center tracks market performance at the low, middle and high ends of Connecticut's single-family-home market. In the first three months of the year both prices and sales declined compared with 2010, when the market appeared to have stabilized.
The price of an average mid-tier house -- one built around 1962 with about 1,500 square feet of space and two baths -- has retreated to the level of year-end 2002, Mr. Clapp said.
Prudential's quarterly report showed a 13 percent drop in home sales statewide compared with last year. In New Haven County the decline was significantly larger, at 20 percent. Ms. Adams ascribed the difference to the expiration last year of the federal home-buyer tax credit.
The median price of a single-family home in Connecticut declined an average of 2 percent, to $240,000. Condominiums showed a 7 percent reduction, to $163,500.
However, Ms. Adams noted that over all, ''we are seeing inventory levels fairly constant, and absorption rates are still under a year in most places, so the market appears to be healthy in terms of the new normal.''
Fairfield County continues to log the highest median price, though it is down about 1 percent, to $420,000. Windham County, after a nearly 12 percent decline, is at the lowest median, $150,000.
The general lack of enthusiasm is mirrored in construction activity. The roughly 500 building permits issued in Connecticut during the first quarter represent 20 percent fewer than for the same period last year, according to the latest Connecticut Economic Digest, published by the state.
But serious buyers are out there, especially those who have been waiting out the market slump by renting, said Mark Markelz, an agent with William Raveis in Fairfield.
''You have buyers that are shoppers who are looking for the 'best deal' out there,'' Mr. Markelz said, ''but others are focused on a particular neighborhood. There is a pent-up-demand market, and they've been looking for a while.''
Buyers with money to spend are bolstering the luxury end of the market, which alone is showing strong improvement. Sales above $2 million were up nearly 20 percent statewide during the first quarter.
Thus, in a town like New Canaan, where the median is now about $1.7 million, overall sales and price numbers managed to buck the downward trend during the first quarter.
In Greenwich, sales in the $5 million to $7 million range jumped 150 percent, from four sales in the first quarter of 2010 to 10 this year, according to a report prepared by Shore and Country Properties. Sales in the $2 million to $3 million range were up 36 percent.
Yet properties in Greenwich are nevertheless feeling the impact of stringent lender requirements on down payments and reserves, according to Russell Pruner, a partner in Shore and Country.
''It could be a minimum of 20 percent or upward of 40 percent, the higher you go in value,'' he said.
To Mr. Pruner's mind, the most that even Greenwich can hope for this year is to halt the downward trend and hold appreciation levels flat. Greenwich home sales may beat last year's and break 600, but that will still be well behind the town's 20-year average of more than 700 sales a year, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE FAIRFIELD COUNTY FACTOR: High-end sales in towns like Greenwich are up. No. 62 Ridge Street closed in February for $6 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INVENTORIES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL CONNECTICUT REALTY (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



213 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Dewhurst's Curious Role In the Theater of Politics

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a column for the Tribune.
It's funny that you can win four statewide elections and still have people think you're a goofball, in over your head. But maybe Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst's fumbles leading to the Texas Senate's budget vote give the lie to that. Maybe he's goofy like a fox.
Passing a budget with no Democratic support and with Republicans chafing at the leash might have caused some momentary discomfort in the Senate, but it doesn't appear to have hurt Mr. Dewhurst's standing with conservative voters. For a guy on the verge of running for higher office, that's the standing that counts. 
Last week, while Senator Steve Ogden, Republican of Bryan and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, was shopping for votes, Mr. Dewhurst told reporters he was baffled that the senators had included part of the state's Rainy Day Fund in their budget. That came as a huge surprise to the senators, who said Mr. Dewhurst was in on that deal. And then Mr. Dewhurst wrote a letter to the senators -- a letter he made public -- saying that he was O.K. with that provision but would have preferred that they'd relied on ''non-tax revenue'' to make the budget balance. That two-day conversation lit up the conservative Internet-phone-bank-e-mail machine outside the Capitol, and the quick admonitions against drawing down the state's savings account spooked enough senators to undermine Mr. Ogden's effort.
In an interview the next day, Mr. Dewhurst blamed ''two or three'' Democratic senators (he wouldn't name them) for undermining Mr. Ogden with their protests that the Senate budget, while better than the one approved by the House, left schools and social services with too little money to do a good job.
In and around the Senate, the lieutenant governor's behavior was criticized as inept, unhelpful and unaware. At a news conference this week after the first of several budget debates, Republican senators assembled behind Mr. Ogden and Mr. Dewhurst and did everything but a synchronized eye-roll when their presiding officer was speaking to reporters. Their crankiness could be troublesome when the senators lunch with their leader, but it's not the thing that plays publicly. What plays publicly is the result.
The Senate approved a budget that cuts $11 billion from current spending and ignores population growth and inflation. It doesn't rely on new taxes. It does not, in fact, use the Rainy Day Fund. It gives public education all of the money that Robert Scott, the state commissioner of education -- and an appointee of and former aide to Gov. Rick Perry -- said was absolutely necessary to run the schools. It includes a Medicaid subterfuge that gets the state in position to spend what federal law requires on that program without actually putting the full dollar amount into the 2012-13 budget right away.
It is the Republican-controlled Senate's effort to mollify voters who want certain services preserved -- education and nursing home care, to name two -- and also voters who want to park state government next to a liposuction machine.
When Mr. Ogden's committee voted out the budget, with nine Republicans and two Democrats in the majority, the plan immediately came under criticism from outsiders who said they preferred the House version, which cuts $23 billion from current spending and doesn't use the Rainy Day Fund. Senators had somehow managed to cut current spending by 5.9 percent in a fast-growing state and to be labeled as spendthrifts. That's no way to start a negotiation.
Two weeks later, after the Democrats were painted into the partisan corner, the Senate defied its tradition of getting two-thirds' support before debating the budget, allowing 19 Republicans to take out that pesky Rainy Day Fund provision and to vote out a budget over the objection of their minority-party brethren. They even lost the two Democrats who had voted for the budget in committee, including Senator Juan Hinojosa of McAllen, Mr. Ogden's co-chairman.
In the end, if you stand back and ignore the personal and internal frictions between Mr. Dewhurst and the Republican senators, they are in much better political shape with the conservatives outside the building. And they enter the conference committee process -- which will reconcile the House and Senate budgets this month -- in a position to argue about education and nursing homes instead of defending what was seen as the Republican Senate's appeasements to the Democrats.
Maybe it was a happy accident. Maybe Mr. Dewhurst is a sort of Chauncey Gardiner type amiably bopping through Texas politics. Or maybe he knows what he's doing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); THEATER (83%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); NONTAX REVENUES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); POPULATION GROWTH (64%); GOVERNORS (58%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); ROBERT C SCOTT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



214 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; YOU ARE HERE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: THE DADDY FACTORY

BYLINE: By NICOLE LAPORTE

 BODY:
A soft-spoken electrical engineer named Edmond Rhim sat in a packed gymnasium with his wife, Hanna, gripping her tiny hand in his. It was the last of four five-hour-long sessions of Father School, and by the end of the night, 70 men -- all of them Korean, and almost all of them Christian -- would be declared more emotionally adjusted dads. They would even get a certificate, a group photo and a polo shirt to prove it.
''She's happy now,'' Rhim said, smiling. 
Hanna nodded her head. ''I love my husband,'' she said. ''But he is'' -- she searched for the right bit of recovery jargon -- ''under construction.''
Like many of the men in the room, Rhim never wanted to come to Father School. (Seven dropped out after the first day.) ''I'm not a bad father,'' he told me a week earlier. But realizing how difficult it was for him to relate to his wife and two teenage kids -- and realizing, finally, how empty that left him -- he paid the $120 course fee and agreed to show up.
Father School has been helping Korean men like Rhim become more emotionally aware since 1995, when it started at the Duranno Bible College in Seoul. The mission, drawn up at the height of the Asian financial crisis, was to end what the Father School guidebook calls ''the growing national epidemic of abusive, ineffective and absentee fathers.''
''Traditionally, in the Korean family, the father is very authoritarian,'' Joon Cho, a program volunteer, told me a few weeks before this session of Father School began. ''They're not emotionally linked with their children or their wife. They're either workaholics, or they're busy enjoying their own hobbies or social activities. Family always comes last.''
In 2000, Father School spread from Korea to the United States, and the program -- part 12-step recovery, part Christian ministry -- was tailored to meet the needs of Korean immigrant fathers dealing with Americanized kids who wondered why their fathers weren't more like the touchy-feely dads they watched on TV. Since then, Father School has exploded. It now operates out of 57 American cities and has graduated nearly 200,000 men worldwide.
''They are ready to cry,'' said Young Chung, a veteran Father School volunteer, as he looked out at the sea of men arranged at a dozen or so small tables in the gymnasium here in this heavily strip-malled suburb of Los Angeles. ''All you have to do is touch them.''
There is no denying it has been an emotional journey -- the boxes of Kleenex on every table are there for a reason. Over the course of the program, the students, who range in age from 30 to 70, have been asked to examine issues that many of them have never dared to think about, much less share with a group.
''Our communication was lacking so much,'' a man in his early 40s wrote in a letter to his father -- one night's homework assignment. ''You expected so much from me, but I gave much more than you think. All your time was work, work, work. . . . You really didn't put much into family life.''
In the midst of another participant's group testimony, in which he talked about how he neglected his 16-year-old son when his son was battling drug and gambling addictions, he crumpled to the floor in tears. When he stepped down from the podium, a few members of the group gathered around him in a consolatory huddle while the rest applauded.
The syllabus also called for students to practice saying ''I love you'' and to ask their wives out on dates. One man drew laughs when he said that his wife was so flabbergasted by the invitation that she refused to go. At another session, they learned how to hug, albeit grudgingly. Only when the volunteers who run these sessions insisted did the men rise from their seats and offer a few stiff embraces.
But on graduation night, the mood was far more festive. For the first time, wives were invited to attend, and the men gallantly pulled out their chairs and introduced them around the room. Platters of spicy kimchi and rice were passed around the table, as a quartet of volunteers sang Korean spiritual songs set to a poppy beat. With all the attendant sincerity and awkwardness, it felt an awful lot like prom night.
Toward the end of the evening, the lights dimmed, and the students filed out of the room. Twenty minutes later, they returned carrying a small, plastic tub filled with water. They knelt down before their wives and removed their stockings and shoes. Some of the women wept as their husbands gently massaged their toes.
Over in a corner, Rhim was hunched over, drying Hanna's feet. She wasn't crying, but as he worked, she leaned down to rest her head on his shoulders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two students show their sensitive sides on graduation night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALYSON ALIANO) MAP
 GRAPHIC: There is no denying it has been an emotional journey -- the boxes of Kleenex on every table are there for a reason. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MEN (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); RELIGION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%) UNITED STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



215 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: An Engine's Tall Order: Streamline The Search

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
WHEN a kidney stone had me writhing in pain a few months back, I did what a lot of people with medical ailments do: I headed straight to Google for help with a self-diagnosis.
In 0.18 seconds, Google led me to 1.9 million pieces of advice, both good and suspect. Drink plenty of water and try to tough it out, but go to the doctor if it doesn't go away -- that seemed to be the consensus. But also among the search results were how-to articles like one saying that if I sipped tea brewed from ground celery seeds or corn silk, the stone would pass within hours. My laughter didn't reduce the pain.
Ultimately, with the help of several quarts of water, the stone passed. But I learned one thing from the Google search results. While you get them very rapidly, they may not be all that useful and dependable. 
It isn't hard to see why. A considerable amount of human effort is spent gaming Google results. Practitioners of the art call it search engine optimization, or S.E.O., and it is used to move a retailer's Web pages or a news organization's articles to the top of the search results page. Web pages are created specifically to fool Google's search algorithm in order to get a higher ranking.
Over on Mechanical Turk, an online job clearinghouse run by Amazon for employers looking for people to do small tasks for small amounts of money, a significant number of the listings are for people to aid in either some form of S.E.O. or spam generation.
Google says it tweaks its page-ranking algorithm regularly to fight the S.E.O. experts, who frantically experiment to find a way to gain back the advantage, and the cat-and-mouse game continues.
The magnitude of this tit-for-tat battle is stunning. Consider that by Google researchers' own estimates, there are now more than a trillion Web pages. ''There are not that many things in the world,'' says Rich Skrenta, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur and programmer who, in a series of business ventures, has been trying to instill some order into the vast clutter of the Web.
Mr. Skrenta has recently embarked on the daunting mission of developing a search engine that will compete with Google and its main competitor, Bing, Microsoft's less-used but no less confounding entry in the field. ''The Web has become wrecked and links aren't useful anymore,'' Mr. Skrenta says. ''It's a hall of mirrors.''
One of the great innovations of Google, and the source of its wealth, was auctioning off search terms. But Mr. Skrenta contends that when Google assigned an economic value to links on a Web page, many pages filled with links that served only as bait for Google's search engine. That's an important way to make money because that search engine drives so much of the Internet's traffic. Hundreds of billions of those kinds of pages were created with only one purpose, and that is to fool Google. A result is less useful searches for information.
It may sound like a stretch to take on an entrenched competitor that even a giant like Microsoft, after spending hundreds of millions of dollars, has barely been able to budge. But Mr. Skrenta has found investors to give him $25 million to try.
Google keeps making its search engine faster and easier -- I had to type only the letters ''kidn'' to get information on kidney stone treatments -- and the company notes that the billions of searches each day and its 66 percent market share prove that consumers find it useful. A long list of challengers who have fallen seem to prove that point -- Alta Vista, Yahoo, Ask Jeeves, Cuil, Kosmix, SearchMe and Wikisearch, to name only a few.
Still, Mr. Skrenta, who sold his first company to Netscape and then was a co-founder of Topix, which aggregates local news, is staking his reputation and his investors' money on a search engine called Blekko.com. Mr. Skrenta pitched his investors with the notion that there is still money to be made in search because of the high price that the two big competitors get for search terms and advertising. If Blekko could get even a small part of that revenue, the investors would reap a healthy return on their money.
His idea is to concentrate the search. Only a relatively small number of the Web's total pages are visited -- in the tens of millions rather than in the hundreds of billions. In his view, it should be possible to simplify a search engine so it could satisfy a vast majority of searchers.
Blekko uses a search algorithm like Google's or Bing's but also gets humans, mostly volunteers, to identify the sites they know, trust and visit most often and to put those at the top of the search results.
''The best site may not have the best S.E.O.,'' Mr. Skrenta says.
It is a Wikipedia model -- or Huffington Post model -- applied to search. Some people apparently will work for no pay if they are convinced that their efforts will help or influence others. Experts who care enough about a topic edit the results. For instance, editors trawling the health results may give a higher ranking to the Web pages written by medical experts at the Cleveland Clinic and the Mayo Clinic than those generated for eHow by writers getting paid a few dollars per piece.
Using Blekko takes a little more effort. It works the way Google or Bing does, but if you want cleaner search results you must type in a slash mark and a category. The company calls them slashtags. Typing ''/conservative'' after ''taxes,'' for instance, would give you sites written from the right; ''/liberal'' gives you the other side.
Blekko also sorts results for financial advice or sports. And it has some rather esoteric experts who have edited results for ''gluten free'' and ''material safety data sheets,'' a category containing information on the properties of myriad substances. If someone tries to game the results, an expert presumably would block the efforts.
Not that there is a lot of gaming of Blekko right now. Only 750,000 unique users made searches in April. But for Blekko, it's a big number -- 30 percent more than the number of unique users who performed searches in March.
So far, the S.E.O. experts haven't taken aim at Blekko, but when they do start trying to manipulate its search results, Mr. Skrenta will know he has arrived. As he puts it, ''They say that's a problem you want to have.''
Online Correction: May 7, 2011, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated information about searches with Blekko. There were 750,000 unique users who performed searches with Blekko in April, not 750,000 searches made.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keith Peters, left, and Rich Skrenta of Blekko, with a puppet homage to Mr. Skrenta. Blekko, a search engine, uses human input, drawing on the wiki model. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH ENGINES (90%); RANKINGS (87%); KIDNEY DISEASE (58%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



216 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador Votes on Plan to Give More Control to the President

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and IRENE CASELLI; Simon Romero reported from Caracas, and Irene Caselli from Quito, Ecuador.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- Ecuadoreans voted on Saturday in a referendum that includes measures aimed at strengthening the power of President Rafael Correa, especially over Ecuador's independent media organizations and the nation's judiciary.
Campaigning ahead of the vote further polarized the Andean country, which went through a decade of political instability before Mr. Correa was elected in 2006, emerging as the country's strongest leader in decades while drawing criticism for his consolidation of power. Mr. Correa, a left-leaning economist, pushed for the referendum after he survived a chaotic police rebellion in Quito in September and his approval ratings climbed. He and his supporters described the revolt as a coup attempt.
That rebellion, during which Mr. Correa opened his shirt and dared police officers to kill him, accentuated tensions between the president and his critics, including some in the news media. 
Mr. Correa has long had a tense relationship with Ecuador's news media over criticism of his policies, which have aligned the country with leftist allies like Venezuela and overhauled its political institutions.
Included in the 10 measures of the referendum is a controversial proposal to create a state panel to regulate media content, a proposal that is heightening concern among many Ecuadorean journalists. ''This is the concretion of a threat,'' said Arturo Torres, head of the investigative unit of El Comercio, a daily newspaper in Quito. ''Investigative journalism will suffer severe limitations due to its scrutiny of power.''
The president's critics say other measures are intended to weaken Ecuador's judiciary. They would allow citizens to be detained longer without charges being filed against them; the appointment of judges by a commission influenced by Correa supporters; and the creation of a so-called Transitional Judiciary Council, expected to be dominated by the president's supporters, to speed certain judicial reforms.
''Correa is holding this referendum with the purpose of consolidating the powers of the executive branch,'' said Fabian Corral, dean of the law department at San Francisco University in Quito. ''Judicial reform is necessary, but dependence of judges upon the executive branch is not going to help.''
Some voters in Ecuador, however, said they were voting out of their admiration for Mr. Correa, an ally of Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez. Mr. Correa's support is based at least in part on a nationalist focus that chafes at foreign interference.
Last month, Mr. Correa, 48, expelled the American ambassador, Heather M. Hodges, over comments made public in a diplomatic cable released by WikiLeaks, in which she referred to high-level police corruption in Ecuador and possible knowledge of it by Mr. Correa.
''Correa is a great fighter,'' said Oswaldo Pazmino, 64, a Quito resident who campaigned in favor of the proposed measures. ''Nobody can stop him; he is the reincarnation of Eloy Alfaro,'' he said, referring to an Ecuadorean leader in the early 20th century who is associated with antiestablishment rebellion.
Official results were not expected to be available on Saturday.
Media rights groups in Ecuador and abroad expressed concern over some ballot measures.
One would prohibit owners of media companies from having financial interests in other industries, presumably to prevent the formation of media conglomerates.
A measure similar to the media regulation efforts in Venezuela and Bolivia would create the oversight panel that would hold ''communicators or broadcasters responsible'' for messages considered violent, sexually explicit or discriminatory.
Mr. Correa has already clashed with some Ecuadorean journalists. He filed a lawsuit this year against El Universo, Ecuador's top opposition newspaper, seeking criminal libel penalties of three years in prison each against an editorial writer at the newspaper and three members of its board of directors.
The lawsuit, which seeks as much as $80 million in fines from the individual defendants and El Universo's parent company, was filed in response to a column that contended Mr. Correa ordered security forces to open ''discretionary fire'' at a hospital during the police revolt. Several people were killed as the rebellion unfolded and was put down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Ecuadorean woman, with her child, cast her vote Saturday at a school in Otavalo, Ecuador, on the referendum proposed by President Rafael Correa. It included sweeping measures aimed at strengthening his power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAUL ARBOLEDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); JUDGES (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); COUPS (75%); WRITERS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (63%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ECUADOR (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



217 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Overqualified? Don't Be Overwrought

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
Q.During the recession, you needed a job and wound up taking one for which you are overqualified. Although you were initially grateful just to have the work, you now feel bored and depressed. Is there any way to change that?
A. Start by changing your perspective, says Caitlin Kelly, author of ''Malled,'' a book based on her experience as a retail sales clerk after losing her job in journalism. 
''Don't focus on what you're not getting but what you are getting,'' she says. ''I may have been overqualified for folding T-shirts, but I was underqualified for selling, being patient and working attentively with a wide range of people. It doesn't matter what the job is -- there are always things you can learn and skills you can develop.''
Hilary Pearl, founder of the executive coaching firm Pearl Associates in Greenwich, Conn, says: ''Tell yourself the current situation isn't the end of your career. Don't overdramatize the negative aspects but try to view the situation more philosophically: life is a series of phases, and this is one of them.''
Consider that because you're overqualified, you may be able to learn or do things on the job that might not have been possible in a more demanding position, says Sarah Hathorn, a career acceleration coach and chief executive of Illustra Consulting in Atlanta. ''You could invest your extra time in learning different aspects of the business,'' she says, ''and teaching or mentoring others in the organization.''
Q.Is it possible to make your work more stimulating and challenging, even if your job responsibilities aren't likely to change?
A. Yes. Seek tasks and responsibilities that force you to learn something new or to work harder. ''You may be operating on autopilot right now, but chances are people above you are stressed,'' Ms. Hathorn says. ''Offer to take things off your boss's plate and let him know which projects or tasks you want to learn more about.''
Always frame your request positively, saying that you love new challenges, rather than complaining that you're bored and underused, says Stacy L. Ethun, president of the Park Avenue Group, an affiliate of the executive search firm MRI Network.
Look at the company's organizational hierarchy and find the person who has the job you'd like, then offer to lend that person a hand, Ms. Hathorn says.
Find a mentor who can help you understand the company's needs and ultimately help you move to a higher level, says Rebecca Weingarten, a career coach and co-founder of DLC Executive Coaching and Consulting in New York. In your down time, educate yourself about the company and its industry. ''Read corporate information, analyst reports and related news articles,'' she says.
Ms. Hathorn suggests researching new tools or processes used by other companies that could save yours time or money. ''If your boss incorporates your suggestions,'' she says, ''it will make him look better and make you a more valuable employee.''
Q. Can doing things you enjoy outside of work make you feel better when you're on the job?
A. Absolutely. Because your job isn't overly demanding right now, you have more time for things you like to do but may have neglected in the past, Ms. Kelly says. ''Spend more time with family, take your dog on long walks, do volunteer work in the community or sing in the church choir,'' she advises. We tend to define ourselves by our job titles, she says, but keep in mind that you are more than just your job.
Challenge yourself outside of work by taking on something you've always wanted to learn, by going to the gym or by dedicating more resources to a hobby or a side business. ''You'll be a happier, stronger person and that will be reflected in your attitude every day,'' Ms. Ethun says.
Q. How can you tell whether it's time to look for a position somewhere else?
A. If the organization isn't promoting from within -- or if others have been tapped for positions for which you were well qualified -- it may be time to look elsewhere. It could be that there is a lack of opportunity for your particular skill set.
You may also find that the company's culture or mission isn't a good fit, Ms. Weingarten says. Ask yourself whether you like the way the company is run and the direction in which it's moving. ''Can you see yourself there five years from now?'' she asks.
Q.How do you leave in a way that acknowledges your gratitude to the company and doesn't engender resentment?
A. Give as much notice as you can -- a month, for instance, is more considerate than two weeks, Ms. Pearl says. Meet privately with your boss and anyone at the company who has been important to you, and express gratitude for what you gained from the experience.
''Don't tell them all the things you could have contributed or talk about how you were underleveraged all these months,'' Ms. Pearl says. ''You want to keep all those bridges open. You never know who your next boss will be.''
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (88%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); WRITERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL SALES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



218 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
OUR KIND OF TRAITOR, by John le Carre (Penguin, $15.) Though set in the present, le Carre's latest thriller is steeped in cold war nostalgia. During a Caribbean vacation, an English couple find themselves caught up in a high-stakes espionage game with a Russian money-launderer looking to strike a deal with British intelligence in exchange for safe harbor.
DARWIN'S SACRED CAUSE: Race, Slavery, and the Quest for Human Origins, by Adrian Desmond and James Moore (University of Chicago, $22.50.) The authors challenge the view of Darwin as a ''tough-minded scientist'' who unflinchingly followed the trail of empirical research to an unavoidable theory of evolution. ''Darwin's starting point,'' they write, ''was the abolitionist belief in blood kinship, a 'common descent' '' of all human beings. 
MR. PEANUT, by Adam Ross (Vintage, $15.) In this daring first novel, a computer game designer is suspected of murdering his obese wife. (When she dies with his fingers in her mouth, as well as a handful of peanuts, to which she is deathly allergic, he claims it was suicide.) The investigation is led by two detectives -- one of them Dr. Sam Sheppard -- well acquainted with the perils involved in marriage. Our reviewer, Scott Turow, praised the novel's ''audacious and moving honesty.''
CRISIS ECONOMICS: A Crash Course in the Future of Finance, by Nouriel Roubini and Stephen Mihm (Penguin, $17.) Roubini, a professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University, warned long before the meltdown of 2008 that something awful was approaching. Here, he and Mihm, whose profile of Roubini appeared in The New York Times Magazine in August 2008, reconstruct Wall Street's scariest hours and then turn to the question of preventing such debacles in the future.
OTHER FLOWERS: Uncollected Poems, by James Schuyler. Edited by James Meetze and Simon Pettet (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.) Campy, cryptic or over the top, this trove shows how disarmingly playful Schuyler (1923-91) can be -- ''Meat-eater, salt-licker, piped spring / dribble-sucker,'' one begins -- before settling down to reveal its serious goals.
TOCQUEVILLE'S DISCOVERY OF AMERICA, by Leo Damrosch (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $15.) Alexis de Tocqueville's magnum opus, ''Democracy in America,'' has gained prophetic stature since its publication in two volumes (1835 and 1840). Damrosch presents the man behind the work: an insatiably curious French magistrate who, although commissioned with Gustave de Beaumont to report on American prisons, confided that he wanted to examine ''all the workings of that vast American society that everyone talks about and no one knows.''
RAT, by Fernanda Eberstadt (Vintage, $15.) Eberstadt's fifth novel follows 15-year-old Rat, ''all elbows and moods,'' from the South of France. Trouble at home forces Rat and her brother to leave their eccentric mother and set out for London in search of the father whom Rat has never known.
GET CAPONE: The Secret Plot That Captured America's Most Wanted Gangster, by Jonathan Eig (Simon & Schuster, $16.) Eig vividly retraces Al Capone's blood-soaked rise to power, and the all-out efforts to bring him to justice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ESPIONAGE (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); WRITERS (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MURDER (67%); MAGISTRATES (66%); MONEY LAUNDERING (57%); EVOLUTION THEORY (54%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



219 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden's Death and the New Unknown in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and DAVID E. SANGER; Alissa J. Rubin reported from Kabul, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Carlotta Gall from Islamabad, Pakistan; Ruhullah Khapalwak and Sharifullah Sahak from Kabul; Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Afghanistan; and an employee of The New York Times from southern Afghanistan.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- From the Taliban's hidden mud compounds to NATO's headquarters in Brussels and the Pentagon, combatants in a decade-long war are asking versions of the same question: How does Osama bin Laden's death change the struggle over who will control Afghanistan?
For the Taliban, the jury is still out: they say their insurgency was never solely dependent on Bin Laden, and they could survive his demise, but the American raid that killed him has raised the possibility that even the movement's top leaders may not be safe in Pakistan.
Many leaders in Europe, though, see Bin Laden's death as another reason to pull out of a war they have promised to quit anyway in the next three years. And in Washington, administration officials say they believe that Bin Laden's death offers them a unique opportunity to unnerve the Taliban leadership and engage them in a political negotiation they have so far resisted. 
''If you are Mullah Omar,'' one of President Obama's top advisers said of Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Afghan Taliban's spiritual leader, who operates from Pakistan, ''you've got to wonder whether the next set of helicopters is coming for you.''
The mystery now is whether the removal of Bin Laden as the central, mesmerizing figure in the battle between fundamentalists and the West is truly a tipping point, as the White House is betting, or whether it will prove more consequential to the debate in the United States about the pace of troop withdrawals from Afghanistan, set to begin this summer.
That may depend on a series of events that have yet to unfold: whether Al Qaeda strikes back for the killing of its leader, whether the American military force in Afghanistan remains at its current strength and whether Afghanistan's own military proves more capable than it has been so far in taking the lead in contested areas of the country.
All last week, Mr. Obama and his aides emphasized that their goal was to defeat Al Qaeda -- the Taliban, officials have argued since 2009, simply need to be ''degraded'' as a force, so that Afghans can fight them and the United States can leave. The president made the distinction clear on Friday during his visit to Fort Campbell, Ky., where he met the Navy Seal team that killed Bin Laden.
''We're making progress in our major goal, our central goal, in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and that is disrupting and dismantling -- and we are going to ultimately defeat Al Qaeda,'' he said. ''We have cut off their head, and we will ultimately defeat them.''
The Taliban's refusal to hand over Bin Laden led to the American invasion in 2001, of course. And separating Al Qaeda from the Taliban has always been an American requirement for any negotiation.
But there is an alternative possibility heard in Kabul: the Taliban may take heart from the death of Bin Laden if they sense that his demise -- and Al Qaeda's infighting -- is likely to accelerate an American withdrawal from the region.
The mood in the Taliban's main leadership organization in Pakistan, the Quetta shura, is calm, according to people who have spoken to some of the members there. Taliban members were passing around a message from Ayman al-Zawahri, Al Qaeda's No. 2 and Bin Laden's possible successor, saying that ''killing Osama bin Laden is just like taking a single grape from a bunch of grapes.''
A Taliban commander in Kunar Province, Zar Mohammed Ghairat, projected a similarly resolute air. ''He was a leader and a man, but there are hundreds of other Osama bin Ladens left behind,'' he said.
Though the Taliban and Al Qaeda have been entwined, their aims are believed to have differed. The Taliban's primary goal has been to control Afghanistan, whereas Al Qaeda has wanted to establish a global terrorist network.
The question for the United States, then, is how many resources -- and how many American casualties -- should be devoted to dealing with what is essentially a local insurgency, now that Bin Laden is gone?
Most important to the future of that insurgency may be the choices made by Pakistan's military and its top intelligence agency, the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI, which have been the Taliban's prime sponsors.
Pakistani officials were angered and humiliated by the American raid that killed Bin Laden, and Pakistan is likely to remain a difficult partner, reluctant to eliminate the financing and sanctuaries it has provided to the Taliban.
Pakistan's support, the survival of Mullah Omar and the reluctance so far of Taliban fighters to join the Afghan government make it unlikely that the movement's energy will be sapped overnight. Similarly, the Taliban's leaders have not been free to sit down with President Hamid Karzai and work out a deal without running afoul of their Pakistani hosts.
''It is very early,'' said Rangin Spanta, the national security adviser to Mr. Karzai. ''On the one hand, losing a charismatic leader is good, but we have to think forward and bring a corrective to our strategy in addressing the sanctuaries and choosing our allies.''
Moreover, Al Qaeda's importance to an insurgency that is far from uniform across Afghanistan, particularly in terms of financing, has waned, Western and Afghan intelligence analysts said.
In the south, where the Afghan Taliban are active, the major source of income for fighters is the narcotics industry, said a senior Western intelligence official. For fighters in the east, ''the primary source is illicit activities, smuggling marble, chromate, gems and timber, as well as kidnapping,'' the official said. However, the Taliban leadership has been helped considerably by Al Qaeda.
One Afghan security official who has tracked members of Al Qaeda since 2001 but asked not to be named because of the delicacy of his work, said that Bin Laden was not just a charismatic figurehead who inspired so many fighters, but also the main draw for financing from rich supporters in Arab countries. The Taliban was already experiencing a money shortage as a result of the Arab Spring, the official said, reflecting the change in priorities of their usual supporters in Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf states.
The Haqqani group, which is active in the southeast and close to the ISI, depends on money from Pakistan, but also on Al Qaeda, said Western and Afghan intelligence officials.
Over all, Hanif Atmar, a former Afghan interior minister, ranked the financing sources as ISI, Al Qaeda and its global network, and what he called the ''war economy,'' including extortion, smuggling and drugs.
As significant to the Taliban are their havens and training camps in Pakistan's largely ungoverned tribal areas. Whether they survive is largely up to Pakistan.
Toor Jan, a former Taliban member in Kandahar who joined the Afghan government's reconciliation program in March, said foreigners accompanied his men as mentors, similar to the role played by American and British soldiers who live and work closely with the Afghan National Army.
''There were some foreigners in each group of Taliban, we can say two or three foreign fighters who taught how to use ammunition and how to plant I.E.D.'s and make explosions,'' he said, referring to improvised explosive devices.
His description was corroborated by Western and Afghan intelligence officials. The number of Qaeda fighters in Afghanistan has been often estimated at fewer than 100, according to senior intelligence officials here.
However, Al Qaeda is present in concentrated numbers in Nuristan and Kunar Provinces, in eastern Afghanistan, where American forces have largely withdrawn, according to a Western intelligence official here. He noted that foreign soldiers were continuing to fight there but were flying in for missions rather than being tied down at bases.
He added that there were ''no more than 50 full-time Al Qaeda-associated fighters.''
''In the peak fighting season it may swell to 75 to 100,'' he said.
Mr. Atmar, the former interior minister, confirmed the estimates. How they may be affected by Bin Laden's death is not yet clear, officials said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taliban fighters in Afghanistan last week. Many of the Taliban receive aid from Pakistani sources
 their spiritual leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, below, is said to be in Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); RELIGION (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HELICOPTERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (95%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



220 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Was Dead Already

BYLINE: By GILLES KEPEL. 
Gilles Kepel, a professor of Middle East studies at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris, is the co-editor of ''Al Qaeda in Its Own Words.''

 BODY:
Paris
HAD Osama bin Laden been killed during the presidency of George W. Bush, he might have become an iconic martyr for anti-Western movements throughout the Muslim world. Those days are gone. Jihadist Web sites mourn their slain mentor, but few in the Arab street care for a man who brought nothing to the region but havoc and desolation, provoked the United States into waging war and, above all, reinforced the very rulers whom radical Islamists most wished to topple.
Arab despots initially saw their life expectancies extended after 9/11: better Ben Ali, the thinking went, than Bin Laden. Now the dictators -- Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia, Hosni Mubarak of Egypt -- are being thrown out, while their counterparts in Libya and Saudi Arabia cling to power by playing the old trump card of Arab oil. From Libya to Bahrain, Syria to Yemen, a pluralistic political system is the goal of a young, urban middle class that is sick of the old order. 
In the end, Bin Laden did not deliver. He trapped the United States into invading and occupying Iraq only to see it become a playground for the Shiite leaders of Iran, much to the chagrin of both neo-conservatives in Washington and the Sunni radicals who make up Al Qaeda. He had nothing to offer beyond hatred for the West.
The waning relevance of Al Qaeda and authoritarian legitimacy opened a political space for the Jasmine Revolution in Tunis and the Tahrir Square uprising in Egypt. Islamists and their sympathizers have been involved in the antigovernment movements. Some might once have been lured by Qaeda mythology, but most seek to blend democracy and pluralism with the tenets of Islamic civilization. The Turkish example of a secular state with an Islamic flavor is debated far more in the Arab media than Al Qaeda's jihadist vision.
The most charismatic of global terrorists is now gone: does that mean that his network will collapse in despair, or are we to expect more violence by his orphans? In April, Ayman al-Zawahri, the Egyptian-born doctor who was Al Qaeda's second in command, posted an hourlong video from his hideout in Pakistan singing the praises of Abboud al-Zomor, the former intelligence officer who supplied the bullets that killed President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt in 1981. Mr. al-Zomor, who was released from prison after Mr. Mubarak's downfall, has been trying to mobilize an Islamist party that would adopt Shariah law.
But Mr. al-Zawahri's desperate effort to jump on the bandwagon of the Egyptian revolution has had little resonance. More troubling are the continued efforts of Qaeda splinter groups in North Africa and on the Arabian Peninsula. Any future acts of terrorism, however, are unlikely to have a snowball effect. Terrorism has its own political economy: when repeated too often, to no avail, its operations lose impact and eventually backfire.
Bin Laden's heirs can still spread havoc, but they have lost the political momentum. Within the field of Islamist militancy, the axis of the battle runs now between Salafists who adhere to a strict, literal version of Shariah and the scattered Muslim Brotherhood, torn between a young generation that finds much in common with its secular contemporaries and the ''old turbans'' who still run the show. Another fault line divides those Islamists who wish to be a part of pluralistic political life, and those who see elections as a chance to seize power and not give it back.
The White House has rightly been keen to avoid any Hollywood-style display of triumph. President Obama is eager to avoid a backlash and to capitalize on an event that is in tune with present-day Arab history. The raid that killed Bin Laden has set back American-Pakistani relations, though Pakistani intelligence has lost a big bargaining chip and will probably emerge weakened. As for Afghanistan, a Saudi royal is said to have counseled the United States, ''Just kill Bin Laden and leave.'' It may be time to take his advice seriously.
The challenge is to take advantage of Bin Laden's death and push to resolve the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians -- a cloud over the prospects for Arab democracy.
Mr. Obama might well have a unique opportunity, as President George H. W. Bush had after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, when he twisted the arms of Yitzhak Shamir and Yasir Arafat into sending their representatives to a peace conference in Madrid.
The political capital earned from Bin Laden's death will not last forever -- it has to be invested soon. After all, the tragic history of the Middle East is one of opportunities not taken.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (74%); CHURCH & STATE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); YEMEN (79%); TURKEY (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



221 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: The Man Likes What He Sees In the Mirror

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Michael R. Bloomberg, long one of the nation's most-admired big-city mayors, is not accustomed to seeing his popularity used as comic fodder. But there he was, at the black-tie White House Correspondents' Association dinner, when Seth Meyers, of ''Saturday Night Live'' fame, strode to the rostrum and, in front of much of the nation's political, media and entertainment elite, let loose with a joke about a Bloomberg-sponsored after-party.
''You know how I know I'm not in New York?'' Mr. Meyers asked. ''In New York, no one is excited to go to a Bloomberg party.'' Cheers broke out as Mr. Meyers, still holding the punch line, raised his voice. ''In New York, a Bloomberg party is five people smoking outside a bar, complaining about Bloomberg.'' 
Mr. Meyers, in that quick dig on April 30, captured the plight of the third-term mayor. Mr. Bloomberg continues to receive attention from the national news media that would make a presidential candidate blush. On Wednesday, he appeared on NBC's ''Today'' and CBS's ''Early Show'' to talk about the killing of Osama bin Laden, and the previous week he was invited to discuss the economy, immigration and national politics on ''Fox News Sunday,'' PBS's ''Tavis Smiley'' show and NBC's ''Meet the Press.''
But at home, Mr. Bloomberg faces an abundance of negative sentiment, much of it a result of New York City's botched response to a snowstorm in December, his ill-fated decision to appoint Cathleen P. Black to lead the public school system and lingering unhappiness over his bulldozing of term limits in 2008.
The data-driven mayor, who has spent many millions of dollars on polls for his campaigns, has tried to bolster his public standing with a rare nonelection-year advertising campaign.
But now he is going further, arguing -- already -- that his legacy as mayor will overshadow short-term stumbles. At times it sounds as if he is trying to convince himself, as much as the public, that his current unpopularity will not define his tenure.
''I'm going to do the best job I can,'' the mayor told Chris Wallace on the Fox show. ''Hopefully, the public will like it, but even if they don't, I've got to look in the mirror. What I see in the mirror is somebody, I hope, that has the courage to do what's right, not what is politic. And afterwards, people will look back and say whether or not he was a good mayor or a bad mayor.''
Two days later, speaking with Mr. Smiley, Mr. Bloomberg offered a similar refrain. ''The public may be upset,'' he said, ''but in the end, you've got to like what you see in the mirror.''
In the aftermath of Bin Laden's death, the mayor again played a unifying role in the city. On Monday at the World Trade Center site, he spoke confidently about New York's security and the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan. On Thursday, he returned to ground zero, accompanying President Obama at a wreath-laying ceremony.
Mr. Bloomberg has spoken of the challenges of remaining popular while making tough decisions at other turning points in his tenure, including at the end of his first term, and when he was contemplating a bid for the presidency.
But he now seems keenly aware that his time as mayor is running out. He often mentions the precise number of days he has left in office; on Tuesday, for example, at a news conference announcing a new taxicab design, he wryly noted, ''In 973 days, I'll be back to taking taxis.''
On ''The Early Show'' on Wednesday, he used a discussion of rebuilding at the World Trade Center site to offer yet another critique of real-time report cards, lamenting the tendency of New Yorkers to complain about a lack of visible progress. ''History will look back and say to get where we are today really was quite amazing,'' he said. ''That's from the perspective of history, rather than journalism.''
Mr. Bloomberg's focus on the future is, perhaps, a natural development more than nine years into his mayoralty. Long-term mayors have fared well in Chicago and Boston, but New York has been different -- Edward I. Koch, in particular, had a difficult third term, complicated by corruption scandals.
Maurice Carroll, director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said Mr. Bloomberg was confronting the inevitable wear and tear of a lengthy stay in the public eye. Mr. Bloomberg's approval rating, once as high as 75 percent, dropped to 39 percent in the most recent Quinnipiac poll.
''He wants to go down in history as maybe the best mayor that New York ever had,'' Mr. Carroll, a former New York political reporter, said. ''It's quite possible that he might. But he's also been around long enough for people to get a little bored and upset with him.''
Critics of the mayor say the negative feedback sends a message that Mr. Bloomberg should focus on the here and now.
''His mind is in a different space than most people if he is talking about how he will be judged,'' said Councilman Jumaane D. Williams of Brooklyn, who has often faulted Mr. Bloomberg. ''What's happening now is not positive, and history cannot revise it.''
But Ester R. Fuchs, a Columbia political scientist who advised Mr. Bloomberg from 2002 to 2006, said the mayor looked at opinion polls as only one data point, never as an overriding factor.
''People call him arrogant, but it's not a question of not listening,'' Ms. Fuchs said. ''The real truth is that he's not making any policy decision based on poll numbers. He's willing to sacrifice short-term standing in the polls for what he believes to be in the best interest of the city.''
Stu Loeser, the mayor's press secretary, said that because Mr. Bloomberg ''will never run for an office again,'' he had the ability to focus on the long term without worrying about political consequences.
In news media appearances, Mr. Bloomberg is emphasizing his political independence -- he offers criticism and advice for Democrats and Republicans -- and reminding the public of what he sees as his greatest achievements: raising students' test scores, keeping crime low and invigorating the local economy.
''Those are the things that matter, and those are the things that I'll be judged on,'' he told Mr. Wallace.
Of course, it is hard for any executive to win over the public at a time of deep budget cuts, and Mr. Bloomberg is no exception. He released his executive budget on Friday, calling for cuts to the teaching force. Unions and community groups are planning protests.
Mr. Bloomberg, for all his talk about standing firm in the face of criticism, has already made some adjustments in his third term. He replaced Ms. Black as schools chancellor when it became clear she had lost the confidence of her subordinates. And he has pledged to use more city workers for information-technology projects in the aftermath of a payroll scandal involving consultant contracts.
Mr. Bloomberg has argued that it is hard for mayors to be popular because they must take action on a host of issues every day. ''There's no easy answers, and you're not going to be popular for being a mayor and having to make decisions,'' he said on ''The Charlie Rose Show'' in March.
He added: ''Every time you make a decision, you lose half the people. After five decisions, there's only you and your mother, and I'm not sure about her.''
The mayor has also pointed out that he survived a period of unpopularity in 2003, when he drew the ire of many city residents for broadening a smoking ban and raising property taxes.
''I was getting a lot of one-fingered waves in parades,'' he recalled in his interview with Mr. Smiley. ''In the end, we were right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON 'TODAY': Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
NATIONAL AUDIENCE: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is a frequent guest on network television shows. He recently has spoken on subjects like Osama bin Laden's death, immigration and national politics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NBC NEWS/''MEET THE PRESS''
JOSEPH SINNOTT/TS MEDIA
FRED WATKINS/''FOX NEWS SUNDAY,'' VIA AP
CBS NEWS/''THE EARLY SHOW'')
 AT GROUND ZERO: After Osama bin Laden was killed, Mr. Bloomberg attended a wreath-laying ceremony at the World Trade Center site on Thursday with, from left, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, President Obama and David Samson, chairman of the Port Authority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MAYORS (90%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); POLITICS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (71%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (86%); CATHLEEN BLACK (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



222 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: If You Have Answers, Tell Me

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard.

 BODY:
AFTER more than a quarter-century as a professional economist, I have a confession to make: There is a lot I don't know about the economy. Indeed, the area of economics where I have devoted most of my energy and attention -- the ups and downs of the business cycle -- is where I find myself most often confronting important questions without obvious answers.
Now, if you follow economic commentary in the newspapers or the blogosphere, you have probably not run into many humble economists. By its nature, punditry craves attention, which is easier to attract with certainties than with equivocation. 
But that certitude reflects bravado more often than true knowledge. So let me come clean and highlight three questions that perplex me. The answers to them may well shape the economy in the years to come.
How long will it take for the economy's wounds to heal?
When President Obama took office in 2009, his economic team projected a quick recovery from the recession the nation was experiencing. The administration's first official forecast said economic growth, computed from fourth quarter to fourth quarter, would average 3.5 percent in 2010 and 4.4 percent in 2011. Unemployment was supposed to fall to 7.7 percent by the end of 2010 and to 6.8 percent by the end of 2011.
The reality has turned out not nearly as rosy. Growth was only 2.8 percent last year, and the first quarter of this year came in at a meager rate of 1.8 percent. Unemployment, meanwhile, lingers well above 8 percent, and according to Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is expected to keep doing so throughout this year.
Economists will long debate whether President Obama's policies are to blame or the patient was just sicker than his economists realized. But there is no doubt that the pace of this recovery will come nowhere close to matching the one achieved after the last deep recession, when President Ronald Reagan presided over a fall in the unemployment rate from 10.8 percent in December 1982 to 7.3 percent two years later.
Looking ahead, an open issue is whether the recession will leave scars that prevent a return to jobless rates that were considered normal just a few years ago. A striking feature of today's labor market is the rise of long-term joblessness. The average duration of unemployment is now almost 40 weeks, about twice what it reached in previous recessions. The long-term unemployed may well lose job skills and find their future prospects permanently impaired. But because we are in uncharted waters, it is hard for anyone to be sure.
How long will inflation expectations remain anchored?
In 1967, Milton Friedman gave an address to the American Economic Association with this simple but profound message: The inflation rate that the economy gets is, in large measure, based on the inflation rate that people expect. When everyone expects high inflation, workers bargain hard for wage increases, and companies push prices higher to keep up with the projected cost increases. When everyone expects inflation to be benign, workers and companies are less aggressive. In short, the perception of inflation -- or of the lack of it -- creates the reality.
Although novel when Professor Friedman proposed it, his theory is now textbook economics, and is at the heart of Federal Reserve policy. Fed policy makers are keeping interest rates low, despite soaring commodity prices. Why? Inflation expectations are ''well anchored,'' we are told, so there is no continuing problem with inflation. Rising gasoline prices are just a transitory blip.
They are probably right, but there is still reason to wonder. Even if expectations are as important as the conventional canon presumes, it isn't obvious what determines those expectations. Are people merely backward-looking, extrapolating recent experience into the future? Or are the expectations based on the credibility of policy makers? And if credibility matters, how is it established? Are people making rational judgments, or are they easily overcome by fear and influenced by extraneous events?
Mr. Bernanke and his team may learn that, in turbulent times, expectations can become unmoored more easily than they think.
How long will the bond market trust the United States?
A remarkable feature of current financial markets is their willingness to lend to the federal government on favorable terms, despite a huge budget deficit, a fiscal trajectory that everyone knows is unsustainable and the failure of our political leaders to reach a consensus on how to change course. This can't go on forever -- that much is clear.
Less obvious, however, is how far we are from the day of reckoning.
Winston Churchill famously remarked that ''Americans can always be counted on to do the right thing, after they have exhausted all other possibilities.'' That seems to capture the attitude of the bond market today. It trusts our leaders to get the government's fiscal house in order, eventually, and is waiting patiently while they exhaust the alternatives.
But such confidence in American rectitude will not last forever. The more we delay, the bigger the risk that we follow the path of Greece, Ireland and Portugal. I don't know how long we have before the bond market turns on the United States, but I would prefer not to run the experiment to find out.
So those are the three questions that puzzle me most as I read the daily news. If you find an economist who says he knows the answers, listen carefully, but be skeptical of everything you hear.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INFLATION (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (76%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



223 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN TRIBECA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: The Land of the $800 Stroller

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

 BODY:
ON Sept. 11, 2001, TriBeCa, the Lower Manhattan loft district two blocks north of the World Trade Center, shook. Much of the neighborhood saw one if not both hijacked airliners fly into the twin towers. Residents watched aghast as bodies and then the buildings themselves crashed to earth. Clouds of ash descended on the streets as if in some macabre snowstorm.
''After 9/11 there was a sense of paralysis in the neighborhood -- of 'Oh, my God, what has happened, and will it happen again, and is it safe to live here?' '' recalled Barrie Mandel, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group who has lived and sold real estate in TriBeCa since the 1980s. But within a year, Ms. Mandel said, ''with leadership from The Tribeca Trib,'' the newspaper that has long helped make a community out of the neighborhood, ''most people decided, one person at a time, 'Yes, it could happen again,' but they decided to stay and help merchants reopen their businesses, and help the neighborhood come back and revive.'' 
Revive it did, and long before the killing last week of Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the attacks, an act that has helped bring the neighborhood a kind of closure. Just four months shy of the 10th anniversary of 9/11, TriBeCa is thriving. Far from fleeing this district of high-ceilinged converted warehouses and picturesque Belgian-block streets, people have been moving to it in droves. Between 2000 and 2009 the population of the 75-block neighborhood swelled by more than a third, to 14,190, census data show. Residents are richer now, too, with a median household income of $136,000, nearly one-fifth higher in inflation-adjusted dollars than a decade ago.
''When we look back at the rebuilding efforts, it's a real testimony to our community's ability to persevere,'' said Julie Menin, the chairwoman of Community Board 1. ''We've been able to build many new schools, parks, playgrounds, ball fields and community centers.''
It is families, lots of them, that have driven growth. TriBeCa has added an average of more than 100 families a year since 2000, accelerating its decades-long shift from an off-the-grid artists' enclave to the Land of the $800 Stroller.
Nicole Rosenthal Hartnett, a children's portrait photographer, has had a foot in each of these TriBeCas. In 1999, she bought a loft on White Street as both home and studio. Soon she met Michael Hartnett, an English banker who lived down the street, on a blind date arranged by his real estate broker. The couple were married two years later.
''I'm an artist, and he was one of those new bankers moving into the neighborhood,'' she said. ''It was the two worlds meeting. He was my first suit.''
After a stint in London, during which Ms. Hartnett had a baby boy and became pregnant with a second one, the couple returned to TriBeCa in 2004, paying $2.75 million for a two-bedroom two-bath co-op loft on Hudson Street, in a converted Beaux Arts office building.
The 3,000-square-foot apartment was large enough for Ms. Hartnett's photography as well as her family. ''This loft is an old-school open space,'' she said, ''so I can still drop down a roll of paper and have a studio.''
Shortly after moving in, she found herself immersed in the casual, family-friendly atmosphere for which TriBeCa is known. In London she had felt isolated and lonely. But in her TriBeCa building she soon met an artist, Christine Sciulli, who had two boys around the same ages as her own. Ms. Sciulli introduced her to other mothers, most of them creative professionals, and before long the women had formed a ''mama group'' they called the Supper Club. Once a week for more than six years they met at one another's lofts while their children charged around.
''You'd end up with 20 kids, easily, running around your house -- all boys -- and your house would get trashed,'' she said. But the friendships forged among the women were so strong that even after the children drifted apart, their mothers have continued to meet for a weekly craft-night gathering they call the Henhouse.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
TriBeCa, an acronym for Triangle Below Canal Street, charms the eye at every turn. A vigorous campaign led to the designation of much of it as four historic districts in the early 1990s, and a southern extension of the protected streetscape area was added in 2002. Thus the neighborhood retains much of the unified architectural feel of the commercial and manufacturing district it once was.
For residents this means lofts with soaring windows and vast floor plates, sometimes punctuated with cast-iron columns. For pedestrians it means gracious marble and cast-iron Italianate commercial palaces on and near TriBeCa's eastern boundary of Broadway, and stout red-brick warehouses with Romanesque Revival-style arches nearer its western border of West Street and the Hudson River.
The southern boundary, which the community board puts at Murray Street, received a high-rise infusion of residential luxury in 2006 with the opening of 101 Warren Street, often called a downtown Time Warner Center. The Whole Foods in the base of the 35-story building has also provided a gleaming emporium of designer food to an area previously short of supermarkets.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Lofts are king, and the buildings where they are found fall into two broad categories: co-ops, typically converted in the late 1970s or early 1980s, and condos, most either developed during the wave of conversions that began in the 1990s or built from scratch.
Co-op prices have taken a hit since the financial crisis of 2008, falling to an average $1.8 million this year from the market's peak of $2.3 million three years ago, according to Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel.
Condos, by contrast, cost even more than before: an average $2.8 million, up from $2.6 million in 2008. Among the condos is a small subset of superluxury buildings like 101 Warren Street and 7 Hubert Street, brokers said. Ms. Mandel, the Corcoran executive, said that units in such buildings had been selling for $1,600 to $2,600 per square foot. Two Federal-style houses are on the market, with asking prices of $5.25 million and $6.5 million.
Ruth Hardinger, an executive vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that 176 properties were for sale, mostly condos, and 80 for rent. A two-bedroom two-bath unit costs $4,800 to $13,500 a month.
WHAT TO DO
Pier 25, public parkland jutting into the river near North Moore Street, began a phased reopening last November after a renovation. The new playground and synthetic turf field are attracting lots of visitors, and the rest of the pier's facilities, including a climbing wall and mini-golf course, are to open soon. But for some who recall this new pier's funky predecessor, with its hamburger stand and its mini-golf course made by an artist and children out of recycled garbage, there lingers the sense that something homegrown and unique to TriBeCa has been scrubbed away.
''It's lost its organic feel,'' said Ms. Hardinger, who has lived in the neighborhood since the 1970s. ''And in its place it has swings and toys that are industrially produced.''
Bob Townley, a mainstay of the old pier who will run programming on the new one, noted that it will serve far more people than its forebear did. ''People love the pier,'' he said. ''Old-timers like myself may have a harder time learning to love it, but it's important to realize that the Hudson River Park Trust took older elements and replicated them; it's the old elements revitalized.''
THE SCHOOLS
School crowding in Lower Manhattan has roused residents and their representatives. Their feistiness has yielded results. By September 2012, the city plans to open the third new primary school in four years.
Students who live west of Church Street are zoned for Public School 234 on Greenwich Street, which received a B on its most recent city progress report. But the school has been oversubscribed; some children in this zone have gone elsewhere.
Public School 397 will move into the base of the new Frank Gehry tower on Spruce Street in September. It will serve kindergarten through second grade this year, expanding one grade per year until it reaches eighth grade.
Intermediate School 289 on Warren Street is one option for Grades 6 through 8; it received a B on its report.
The selective Stuyvesant High School is on Chambers Street. SAT averages last year were 674 in reading, 735 in math and 678 in writing, versus 439, 462 and 434 citywide.
Last month, the city said that in the fall of 2012, some residents would be expected to send their children to school outside the community board boundaries. Ms. Menin, the board chief, said she would fight any such plan.
THE COMMUTE
The financial district is within walking distance. The 1, 2 and 3 subway lines run along the West Side. The 4, 5 and 6 take riders up and down the East Side.
THE HISTORY
Several of TriBeCa's finest 19th-century commercial buildings stand around Duane Park, a serene triangle bought by the city from Trinity Church for $5 in 1795, according to ''The Texture of Tribeca,'' by Andrew Scott Dolkart, published by the Tribeca Community Association in 1989.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RULING THE ROOST: A jungle gymat the new playground on Pier 25 provides a child-friendly vantage point on TriBeCa, which has added an average of more than 100 families a year since 2000. (The high-rise in the background is in Battery Park City.) (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY (89%); HIJACKING (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); CHILDREN (68%); CENSUS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



224 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Former Ambassador to China Tests Political Waters With Speech at College

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. - A week after resigning his post as ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. made his debut on the American political stage here on Saturday and defended his service in the Obama administration as he began exploring whether to join the Republican presidential race.
A commencement speech at the University of South Carolina provided a backdrop for Mr. Huntsman to introduce himself as a leader who rose above partisanship when answering President Obama's call to represent the United States in Beijing. He said public service was a central tenet of patriotism. 
''Work to keep America great. Serve her, if asked,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''I was - by a president of a different political party. But in the end, while we might not all be of one party, we are all part of one nation, a nation that needs your generational gift of energy and confidence.''
Mr. Huntsman did not directly mention that he was taking steps to run against Mr. Obama, who sent him to China two years ago. But a three-day visit to South Carolina, which holds one of the first primary elections of the presidential campaign, illustrated that he is serious about the prospect of joining the Republican nominating contest.
''There's always room for a new voice,'' Mr. Huntsman said, pausing for a moment as he breezed through a whirlwind of meetings with Republicans here. ''To the extent that people are concerned about where we are - in terms of the economy and our relative position abroad - absolutely, people are looking for a new set of eyeballs.''
Mr. Huntsman, who served as governor of Utah for five years, is one of several possible new entrants in a Republican campaign that has been under way for months but remains unusually unsettled. He is using college appearances - his speech here Saturday morning before 1,150 graduates of the College of Arts and Sciences, followed by a similar address on May 21 in New Hampshire - to signal his intention to run as a different type of candidate.
Mr. Huntsman, 51, harked back to the days of his youth - long hair, skinny jeans and a member of a rock band called Wizard - to present himself as a man who could appeal to a new generation of voters. The speech provided an opportunity, his advisers said, to introduce himself as a person and not simply a politician.
He spoke in an optimistic tone and even briefly translated the college's traditional Gamecock chant - ''Go, fight, win!'' - into Mandarin Chinese. But he also confronted the serious side of the United States' relationship with China.
''I know there are many in China who think their time has come - that America's best days are over. And there are probably some in this country who have lost confidence and think that China is the next best thing,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''But these people aren't seeing things from my earlier vantage point of 10,000 miles away. The real test of a nation is not how well it does when times are great, but how well it does when times are tough.''
The weekend visit offered a window into his strategy. Like Mitt Romney, a Republican presidential candidate and former governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Huntsman is a Mormon. Questions about Mr. Romney's religion complicated his efforts during his first presidential campaign here four years ago. For his part, Mr. Huntsman is scheduled to attend a nondenominational service on Sunday at Seacoast Church near Charleston.
Representative Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina who is a member of the church, said he was eager to meet Mr. Huntsman and discuss his record as governor of Utah and his time as ambassador to China.
''You have to explain it a little bit and answer why you would be chosen by this president,'' Mr. Scott said in an interview. ''This president is seen by most of us conservatives as very liberal, so you would like to know what they have in common. But in the end I don't see it as something that negates his candidacy.''
Mr. Scott said questions may also be raised about Mr. Huntsman's religious traditions, but he added, ''We will get to the issues of faith later, but at this point, I need to sit down and see what he's made of.''
As ambassador to China and therefore an employee of the federal government, Mr. Huntsman was prohibited from engaging in political activities. But a team of Republican strategists established a campaign-in-waiting on his behalf - the fruits of which were on display here this weekend - as he was surrounded by alumni of Senator John McCain's presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2008.
While Mr. Huntsman did not declare his presidential intentions, he did weigh in on a prickly and parochial South Carolina issue: barbecue sauce.
When asked by a local reporter what was on his weekend agenda, Mr. Huntsman replied: ''Barbecue. Mustard-based barbecue.'' It was unclear whether aficionados of the other homegrown varieties - mixed with vinegar or tomato, but not both - would be turned off by the fact that he took sides in one of the state's rivalries.
On his introductory tour, it was clear that Mr. Huntsman was a man of many titles. In the commencement program, he was introduced as ''respected public servant, business executive, governor and ambassador.'' Asked how he preferred to be addressed, he said: ''Since I'm called everything at home, you can call me anything. But probably Jon is best.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor, recently resigned his ambassador post. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



225 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Big G.O.P. Donors Adopt Wait-and-See 2012 Tack

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Jim Rutenberg reported from New York, and Jeff Zeleny from Columbia, S.C.

 BODY:
The vaunted Republican network of high-dollar donors and fund-raisers, for so long a fear factor for Democrats, has been slow to commit itself to the 2012 presidential candidates, contributing to the faltering start of the party's drive to unseat President Obama.
So far, only former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts has assembled a strong bench of the top Republican financiers. Scores of other fund-raisers remain unaligned, waiting with their money -- and contact lists -- in their pockets as prospective candidates bombard them with phone calls, e-mails and in-person visits around the nation.
''It's not at the top of the agenda for most folks right now,'' said Brian Ballard, the Florida finance chairman for Senator John McCain's 2008 presidential bid, who has heard from all of the potential hopefuls this year but, like many of his associates, has yet to choose a 2012 candidate. 
A result is the chicken-egg dynamic that is delaying the party's urgent need to begin raising money to defeat an incumbent president whose fund-raising goals are as high as $1 billion. Potential candidates have been slow to get into the race without the assurance that they can raise the money necessary for a credible campaign, while donors are waiting to see how the field develops before making decisions.
Many prospective candidates ''want to have more tangible evidence that the support will be there if they start out,'' said Al Cardenas, a former Florida Republican Party chairman who now leads the American Conservative Union. ''Then there are the donors who don't yet have a candidate -- they're being more cautious to say, 'You know what, I'm waiting it out to see what the whole field looks like.' ''
The early stages of any presidential campaign involve an intense competition, waged largely out of public view, for the allegiance of a core group of fund-raisers -- the ''bundlers'' who pledge to raise hundreds of thousands of dollars on a candidate's behalf from business associates, political allies, friends and neighbors. Under President George W. Bush, the Republicans built a network of hundreds of well-connected and energetic bundlers, a good portion of whom went on to help Mr. McCain in 2008.
Mr. Romney has won the support of some of the highest profile Republican bundlers. They include Mel Sembler, a Florida developer; Wayne Berman, a Washington lobbyist; and Lewis M. Eisenberg, a New York financier who said Mr. Romney was winning over donors by emphasizing that his focus would be ''spurring the economy, creating jobs and tackling the deficit.''
The difficulties of lining up bundlers appear to be complicating progress for some other likely candidates. But at the same time, the situation has given newcomers, latecomers and lesser-known candidates more time and opportunity to gauge their chances.
At this point in the race four years ago, the top tier of Republican candidates had already raised more than $50 million among them. By the end of the first quarter this year, only one major contender, former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, had even opened an exploratory committee to raise money. (The first meaningful fund-raising totals will not become public until July.)
The difficult fund-raising environment has tested even the most connected of potential candidates.
Several friends and associates of Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi said that before he decided against running for the nomination, even he -- a onetime lobbyist, Republican Party chairman and Republican Governors Association chief -- faced a difficult task raising money for himself in the maximum $2,500 increments allowed by campaign law. (None suggested that was why he did not run, and even rivals had predicted that he would have been one of the better-financed candidates nonetheless.)
Mr. Pawlenty, who has been among the most active likely candidates on the fund-raising circuit, said that it had been arduous but that the large number of uncommitted donors presented an opportunity for first-time candidates like himself.
''Many of them want to wait a little while longer to see who's all going to be in the race,'' Mr. Pawlenty said, adding that his efforts had shown improved results over the last month and that he was confident he would have enough money to have a ''Buick'' of a campaign, if not a ''Cadillac.''
Adding to the challenge this year, the candidates will be competing for money with outside organizations like American Crossroads, a group formed with help from the Republican strategist Karl Rove that has set a fund-raising goal of $120 million for 2012, though it asks donors to help candidates and parties first.
Top Republican donors and senior party officials said they were not overly concerned, expressing confidence that when the field did crystallize the money would be there just as it was last fall. Speaking of the 2010 election cycle, Mr. Sembler, a longtime Republican rainmaker, said, ''There were a lot of passionate people out there raising money,'' adding, ''It just hasn't seemed to be cycled up yet.''
David A. Norcross, a former general counsel for the Republican National Committee, backed Mr. Romney in the 2008 primaries and had planned to support Mr. Barbour this time. ''We're all in the wait-and-see category for now,'' he said, adding that he would probably take his cues from Mr. Barbour.
In an exhibit of how fast enthusiasm can translate into big money, Representative Ron Paul of Texas reported that his presidential exploratory committee had collected more than $1 million online in connection with his appearance at the debate on Fox News Channel on Thursday.
Aides to Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who just resigned as ambassador to China and is exploring a run, have identified more than 300 major unaffiliated Republican fund-raisers and are now prospecting for support among them. Mr. Huntsman's aides are sending him to meetings with potential donors and bundlers in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida.
Potential rivals to Mr. Huntsman -- a multimillionaire and son of the billionaire founder of the Huntsman Corporation, a chemicals manufacturer -- had been speculating that he would finance his own campaign. But, in a brief interview on Friday in Columbia, S.C., he ruled out that possibility, saying, ''No self-financing.''
''Unless you can raise it legitimately,'' he said, ''you're not going to win.''
People close to Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, who is still deliberating on a campaign, have been putting out feelers to former supporters of Mr. Barbour and Mr. Bush, and vice versa.
''The people I've talked to have not made a decision and are awaiting Mitch,'' said Bob Grand, a longtime supporter of Mr. Daniels and an Indiana finance chairman for Mr. Bush's 2000 and 2004 campaigns. ''The question is how long will they wait?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney, top, has a strong network of donors for his 2012 run. Others have less support and may have to compete with groups like American Crossroads, affiliated with Karl Rove, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM COLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHRIS USHER/CBS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



226 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: WHY SHE WENT

 BODY:
Janny Scott's article (''The Young Mother Abroad'') about Ann Dunham resonated with me as an American parent who years ago took a small child to live in Southeast Asia. It resonated even more with me as a high-school principal. I have observed that parents who teach their children compassion often forget to teach them resilience, and those who teach their children to ''stop being wimpy'' often do so with an admonition that the world is a mean place in which they will have to be tough to compete. Ann Dunham's insistence on both idealism and strength is a model for creating useful adults and perhaps even presidents. EMILY H. JONES Putney, Vt., e-mail
There are few editorial flubs more infuriating than when a photograph is discussed at length but is not reproduced with the text. I refer to the first paragraph of the piece on Obama's mother. You could have at least provided a link to it in the online version. SAM ABRAMS Rochester, e-mail 
I'm not sure why right-wingers have fixated on their belief that President Obama was born abroad or somehow soaked up anticapitalist thought from his absent Kenyan father, when the more disturbing truthis staring us in the face: he was a pirate! He viewed commerce as something to be pillaged and looted. He views wealth in completely zero-sum terms, as something that can be accumulated only through force. JONATHAN CHAIT, 6:23 p.m., April 20, TNR.com
In 2008, I voted for Barack Obama for carefully considered reasons: his stances on health care, the economy, troop withdrawal in Iraq, etc. Is it very wrong to vote for him again in 2012 because he was the cutest pirate ever? ALLISON SARGENT Wellesley, Mass., e-mail
I admittedly enjoyed Janny Scott's article. But I can't help but interpret writing like this as playing into the media's endless exotification of our president. I suppose he has had an unusual life to some Americans, one scattered with travel abroad, academic interests and -- my goodness! -- interracial, international parents. But frankly it sounds a lot like my life. Americans are a diverse lot, and we all need to truly, deeply accept that. M. GLADSTONE Los Angeles, 1:52 p.m., April 20, nytimes.com
I think it's overly defensive to insist that Obama is in no way different from most Americans. He is. His formative years were spent shuttling between Indonesia and Hawaii, missing his Kenyan father. You cannot read ''Dreams From My Father'' without intuiting a very distinctive man in the history of the American presidency. I think it's a big advantage, especially in foreign policy. And I think it's a transformative moment in the evolution of America -- a multicultural, multiracial experiment in democracy that has a president that reflects its future. ANDREW SULLIVAN, 4:52 p.m., April 21, The Daily Beast's The Dish
Why is it necessary to mention Obama's mother's weight in the lede -- or anywhere! -- of a seven-page magazine profile? @RACHELSLAJ, 2:04 p.m., April 20, Twitter
The stories gathered by Janny Scott offer a vision and a hope that Americans, even from the deepest heartland so often caricatured as provincial, have the broadmindedness, global curiosity and sense of fairness that can get lost in bitter and petty partisanship. I've often thought the president must reflect his mother in ways even he might find hard to acknowledge; his desire to ''find the middle way,'' characterized as ''weak'' by glib commentators, seems to me a rare strength. I'm reminded of how, on the eve of the 2004 election, when a rally of his supporters started to boo at the mention of his opponents, Barack Obama said, simply, ''You don't need to boo; you need to vote.'' EMORETTA, Ithaca, 10:15 a.m., April 20, nytimes.com
Nothing has changed; the bigots still throw rocks at the black kid, and he's still dancing. @THEONLYADULT, 11:36 a.m., April 20, Twitter

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM FRIENDS AND FAMILY OF STANLEY ANN DUNHAM) GRAPHICS: ''On Friday, Shaun Tan's book 'The Arrival' was No. 2,300 on Amazon. Now that the magazine article on him has come out, it's at No. 85.'' @nickrizzo, 6:28 p.m., April 24, Twitter
ANALYTICS: Birth of a Meme, April 20: How many minutes it took for a commenter to first question President Obama's secret pirate past after Janny Scott's article was published on the nytimes.com home page.
 How many minutes it took for the magazine's editor, Hugo Lindgren, to make a similar joke on Twitter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); IRAQ (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



227 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Talking to China: Beijing promised reforms, but it hasn't done much to deliver

 BODY:
China has vowed to smooth relations with the United States. Since June, it has allowed its artificially cheap currency to rise about 5 percent against the dollar. Its huge trade surplus -- a drag on global growth -- has shrunk by half since its 2007 peak. During a January visit to Washington, President Hu Jintao promised to end software piracy by government agencies and procurement policies that discriminate against foreign companies. He even admitted that China had to make progress on human rights. 
It still has a long way to go -- to win global respect or the trust and respect of its own people. When the Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, and the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, meet their Chinese counterparts for their ''Strategic and Economic Dialogue'' this week, they need to deliver that message loud and clear.
China's human rights record has gotten worse, as its autocrats nervously watch the Middle East uprisings. Gary Locke, the commerce secretary, who is President Obama's choice to be the next ambassador to China, rightly criticized Beijing last week for failing to make good on commitments to level the playing field for foreign firms.
The list of complaints is long: 80 percent of the computer software in China is counterfeit. Beijing just published a new investment catalog that keeps a long list of industries off limits for American firms. It changed the investment vetting process to allow Chinese companies to recommend barring acquisitions by foreign rivals. It has done nothing to reduce the enormous subsidies in the form of cheap credit to favored state-owned firms.
In general, we agree with the Obama administration's patient yet persistent attempts to persuade China to address these economic distortions. Punitive legislation, like that often threatened by Congress, would only set off a destructive trade war. But Beijing's intrinsic conservatism has only gotten worse as the top leadership prepares for Mr. Hu to step down next year. With the world economy gradually on the mend, China's trade surplus could explode again and threaten a more long-lasting recovery.
The Obama administration must use whatever tools it has to urge China forward. It can keep reminding Beijing that reform is in China's own interest. Indeed, allowing its currency to rise faster would be the most effective way to head off inflation that is threatening the living standards of ordinary Chinese. If that logic does not change any minds, Washington has other leverage. China particularly covets a bilateral investment agreement that would ease the path for Chinese firms in the United States. It wants fewer restrictions on American technology exports.
The Obama administration must make clear that these things can happen only if China keeps its promises. If it wants to be treated as a regular market economy, it must behave like one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (76%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); TRADE DISPUTES (62%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HU JINTAO (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GARY LOCKE (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



228 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4677 words

HEADLINE: 'IT'S ROLLICKING STUFF, ISN'T IT?'

BYLINE: By PETER STEVENSON

 BODY:
Around sunset on a recent spring evening in Manhattan, a nervous-looking young woman was clutching a clipboard outside the entrance to the East 57th Street apartment belonging to Tina Brown and Harry Evans. Guests were shown into a large room filled with fresh-cut flowers, caterers bearing trays of hors d'oeuvres and wall-to-wall chatter. The hum was baritone: men in suits outnumbered women in heels two to one. The billionaire chairman of Starbucks, Howard Schultz -- whose book, ''Onward: How Starbucks Fought for Its Life Without Losing Its Soul,'' was the reason for the party -- stood a head taller than the crowd, watching with a smile as flush-cheeked beefy guys from his scrappy youth in Canarsie, Brooklyn, knocked back the free booze. 
Windows opening onto a large garden were shut to keep out the chill. Tina Brown, editor of the newly merged Newsweek and Daily Beast, was wearing a black cocktail dress and holding a wineglass filled with seltzer as she darted between CNBC's Maria Bartiromo, the former White House budget director Peter Orszag, Willie Geist of ''Morning Joe,'' the former New York City Police commissioner Bill Bratton and Oprah's best friend, Gayle King. As is not uncommon in preparation for Brown's parties, that afternoon the room's furniture was loaded into a truck, which was waiting, out of sight, for the last guests to leave before unloading its contents back into the apartment. Sir Harold Evans, Brown's 82-year-old husband, has been known to joke with friends that he'd prefer to be in the truck, where he could circle the block in the comfort of his own home.
It was almost time for Brown to introduce her guest of honor when an earsplitting squawk of feedback erupted from an audio speaker. Brown swiveled, blue eyes narrowing, then dashed to the corner where Evans was crouched down cheerfully trying to get a microphone to work as assistants fluttered. The microphone business sorted out, Brown took the floor and introduced Schultz, who spoke for a few minutes. He handed the microphone back to Brown, who put it down to another molar-rattling blast of feedback.
In the 1980s and '90s, the Tina Brown show was one of the biggest in town. Her unsentimental blond-ambition tour as editor of Vanity Fair and The New Yorker was perfectly tuned to the preoccupations of the age. Inhabiting a world of big personalities, Brown inflated her magazines with them. She even colonized an island with them: Liberty Island in New York Harbor, where one hot August night in 1999, 800 guests -- including Henry Kissinger, Madonna, Robert De Niro, George Plimpton, Sarah Jessica Parker and Salman Rushdie -- toasted Brown's new magazine, Talk, as they munched on catered picnic dinners from Glorious Foods under 2,000 Japanese lanterns, the Statue of Liberty and a sky filled with fireworks.
In hindsight, the party recalls nothing so much as the upriver U.S.O. show in ''Apocalypse Now,'' minus the helicopters and Playmates. Talk magazine never reached such manic heights again, as it failed to become part of the New York-Beltway-L.A. conversation. Meanwhile, those big personalities of the '80s and '90s started to deflate like Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloons. Before she could figure out a way to fit her publication to a changing culture, 9/11 flattened the New York economy, and the magazine was shut down. Any indulgence Brown may have expected from Talk's owners -- Hearst and Miramax -- never came. ''No big career doesn't have one flameout in it, and there's nobody more boring than the undefeated,'' she said at the time. But she was stunned and crestfallen.
A decade later, at 57, Tina Brown -- the woman who in the words of The New Yorker's Hendrik Hertzberg ''has been a celebrity since she was in college'' -- has a magazine again. While Newsweek is bruised and limping, it can still lay claim to a position on the main playing field of American journalism. But for how long? Last year it lost more than $20 million; its new partner, Brown's three-year-old Web site, The Daily Beast, lost an estimated $10 million.
As her guests said goodbye, Brown and Evans looked eager to get their furniture back. Suddenly the French philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy wafted in, dressed in black and trailing a cloud of cologne and his mistress, Daphne Guinness, who was wearing a revealing black cat suit and heelless Alexander McQueen platform shoes. Levy was fresh from Paris, where, he proceeded to tell Brown and a few stragglers, he had just single-handedly persuaded his old friend President Nicolas Sarkozy to go to war against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya. (A few days later, Steven Erlanger of The New York Times reported that this had, improbably enough, been the case.)
Levy drained a glass of red wine and took off into the night with Guinness. Brown looked happy for the first time all evening.
''Talk was a very good magazine, it really was,'' Brown said a few weeks before the party, sitting in The Daily Beast's offices in the Frank Gehry-designed IAC building, that modernist melting-ice sculpture in Chelsea. ''And I only realized how really good it was when I was preparing for Newsweek.'' Brown says her original concept for Talk -- a combination of The New Yorker, The Economist and Stern -- was the right one. ''It was just the wrong setup. Miramax wasn't a publishing company, and Hearst was the wrong publisher. Actually I think it would have worked better as a weekly. And now I have a weekly.''
Soon Brown and her staff would be temporarily shoehorned into Newsweek's offices downtown at 7 Hanover Square, while The Daily Beast's offices were torn up and remade as a giant newsroom, with an in-house digital TV studio, to accommodate the merged Beast and Newsweek staffs in July.
''What I love about Newsweek, it's truly a global magazine,'' Brown continued. ''People keep showing up -- we discovered we have a Japanese correspondent! That's kind of thrilling -- there is a Japanese Newsweek, and there's a very good Polish Newsweek, all these global editions, we have a great Moscow bureau chief. It's thrilling to feel the global reach of Newsweek, because there are very few brands left that have that kind of traction. There's the BBC, CNN, The New York Times, the Times of London, Time and Newsweek.''
Brown drives her staff at warp speed. ''I'm up from 5 a.m., going online and sending BlackBerry messages out from then until I go to bed,'' she said. ''People get used to that. I like to have a structure of things that are in place, and then I constantly disrupt it with a new thing, an idea that's just in the air.
''I'm not very good with people who aren't committed,'' she continued. ''Kathy O'Hearn from CNN has come over to develop our Web TV. Kathy says, 'Don't come here unless you're balls to the wall!' So now we call it 'B to the W!' We say, 'Is he B to the W?' Because otherwise someone comes in and says, 'Well, two days a week I have to teach at N.Y.U. . . .' And we say, 'Not B to the W!' ''
Brown's post-Talk decade in the wilderness was neither idyll nor idle: a floundering CNBC talk show, ''Topic (A) With Tina Brown,'' between 2003 and 2005; a reported $2 million advance for a biography of Lady Diana, published in 2007, which spent 10 weeks on the Times best-seller list; a bid to become editor of Time magazine; and the launch of The Daily Beast, in partnership with her friend the IAC chairman Barry Diller, in 2008.
While The Beast, as Brown calls it, is a long way from profitability, it's an impressive achievement whose relatively few visitors (just under four million uniques per month) belie its cultural influence.
The ''NewsBeast'' merger -- orchestrated by Barry Diller and Newsweek's owner, the late audio mogul and philanthropist Sidney Harman -- was one of necessity for both men. Newsweek had been rudderless since Harman bought it last August for $1 from the Washington Post Company and assumed $40 million in liabilities. Diller meanwhile was in the same boat as anyone trying to make a stand-alone Web site profitable. Ideally, The Beast would mimic the success of The Huffington Post, the Web site that Brown's friend Arianna Huffington hawked to AOL for $315 million in February. But HuffPo has what The Beast lacks: a tribal identity, one that draws 31 million monthly visitors. With the Newsweek deal, Diller and Brown tethered The Beast to a print landmass -- albeit a fairly scorched one -- and avoided having to answer the inevitable question of whether The Beast by itself could ever be a viable business.
Before taking the job, Brown extracted from Harman a hard-won promise that she would have editorial control at Newsweek. Harman's death on April 12 from acute myeloid leukemia robs Newsweek of an informed and deeply involved owner. ''I'd got really fond of him,'' Brown said. ''He was lovely, feisty and funny.'' Harman, for his part, had clearly been charmed by Brown, calling her ''my beauty.'' Harman's wife, the former California Democratic congresswoman Jane Harman, has taken his place on the Newsweek Daily Beast Company board and has said the Harman family will continue her husband's investment.
One afternoon in late March, Brown backed out of her apartment kitchen carrying a tray loaded with tea and cookies. She put the tray down on a small table in the living room and sat down in a window seat next to an orange cat curled in sleep. Under a black suit, she wore a white shirt unbuttoned enough to display the cleavage that inspired Private Eye to dub her a ''buxom hackette'' when she was 25. Brown was tired. Two days before, she finished co-hosting the Women in the World Summit at New York's Hudson Theater -- Brown booming out ''These are revolutionary days!'' to a whooping crowd of 300 women, followed by panels on women's rights and appearances by Hillary Clinton, Melinda Gates, the World Bank managing director Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg.
One highlight of the weekend was Brown interviewing Bill Clinton, whom she described in 1998 in The New Yorker as ''a man in a dinner jacket with more heat than any star in the room . . . his height, his sleekness, his newly cropped, iron-filing hair and the intensity of his blue eyes project a kind of avid inclusiveness that encircles every jaded celebrity he passes. He is vividly in the present tense and dares you to join him there.''
In the present tense of the Hudson Theater, the wattage had been dimmed by the years, as the two sat in armchairs on a raised platform and Brown, holding a stack of notes, leaned forward to pepper the former president with questions about Libya as he, a slight croak in his voice, wielded the cordless microphone like a man gesturing with a highball.
As she drank her tea in her apartment, her second issue of Newsweek had just been published, and it included an essay on Charlie Sheen by the novelist Bret Easton Ellis. ''It's rollicking stuff, isn't it?'' she said. ''It's fun to get all these new writers in. I hope we can retain the interest. As you know, the window of interest today slams shut pretty fast.''
Brown's 20-year-old daughter, Isabel, walked in and asked, laughing, if her mother and guest would like anything more to eat or drink.
''No, thank you, darling,'' Brown said. ''What have you got there?''
''Oh . . . ,'' Isabel said, giggling, and unfurled a magazine. ''It's Elle.''
''Elle!'' Brown said, with mock seriousness.
Brown was raised in Little Marlow, a small village on the north bank of the Thames River in Buckinghamshire. ''I was very dreamy,'' Brown said. ''I'd go off into long reveries. But I always had a drive. And I've still got the two things going on.''
Her father, George Brown, produced the first Agatha Christie films and had a brief marriage to the actress Maureen O'Hara. Her mother, Bettina, was Laurence Olivier's press secretary. ''She was in that Vivien Leigh moment,'' Brown said. ''That was sort of my father's crowd. It was the time of gentleman movie producers, and the English film business then was a glamorous business. On school holidays I would have lunch at Pinewood Studios, and there would be Sir Richard Attenborough and Dirk Bogarde, and they all seemed very sort of upmarket.
''My father was a very warm and generous guy,'' Brown continued. ''He always thought the best of people and was often disappointed as a result. My mother was much more cynical and rescued him from his excessive optimism. And then the movie business changed, it was all about raising money, which is what he hated to do. He began to have a lot of difficult times -- he'd spent an awful lot of his money in just being generous -- and he didn't really have any money in the end, so I had to support him. He hated me having to do that.''
But she was closest to her mother. ''We were real bosom buddies. She was a very iconoclastic, funny, original woman.'' After her father's retirement, Brown's parents lived as ex-pats in Spain, where her mother wrote for an English-language newspaper. In the early 1990s, they moved into an apartment across the landing from Brown and Evans and helped raise their children.
Brown grew up comfortable but not upper class. ''I went to posh boarding schools, yet my father was a show-business guy, really,'' she said. ''I was constantly tossed out, but with those schools, you wear that with a badge of honor. My parents were totally on my side. . . . They would go and say, 'How terrible you must feel to have failed with this original child!' and then drive off with me in a huff.''
Sir Harry Evans, Brown's husband and the father of her two children, bounded in as if he were coming below from the deck of a freighter in high seas, tie askew. He plopped into a chair, helped himself to tea and plunged into a tale about a possible new lead in the unsolved 1977 Cairo murder of his former London Sunday Times foreign correspondent David Holden.
Brown gave him a look. ''Oh, I thought this was a social call!'' Evans said, taking his cue from his wife and his tea with him into the next room. Evans, who achieved renown as editor of The Sunday Times of London, has served as editor of various U.S. magazines, publisher of Random House and author (''My Paper Chase''). He and Brown adore each other. ''We're both journalists, and we're both outsiders,'' is how Brown sums it up, and for all of their social capital, there is a disheveled British battiness about the couple.
Their two children, George and Isabel, are in their 20s, no longer at home. ''Harry and I have breakfast together every morning,'' Brown said. ''We go to that crummy Sutton diner around the corner. It's become our special time. When the kids are little, the morning is never a 'time,' you know? . . . So then it finally subsides, and you're suddenly looking at the person you're married to. And we have a fantastic time. The best thing for us is if we're at a dinner party and there's a kind of California seating arrangement where the husband is put next to the wife. We're both like, 'I got you!' ''
She took a sip of tea.
In the early 1970s, it seemed that all of England's bright young minds were writing for The New Statesman: Auberon Waugh, Christopher Hitchens, James Fenton, Claire Tomalin, Martin Amis. ''I lived for The New Statesman every Thursday in the newsstand at the corner of my road,'' said Brown, who was by then at Oxford and writing for its literary magazine, The Isis. ''I was obsessed with 'Bron' Waugh, he had a very iconoclastic political column. One day I wandered into the Isis office, and there was this guy lurking around called Stephen Glover. He said he was going off to interview Auberon Waugh, and I just glommed on to him.''
Glover, now a columnist for The Independent, says: ''Bron was surprised to see Tina there. He was completely struck by her, and ignored me completely.''
Brown went on: ''After we'd met, Bron invited me -- which he did with all the young girls he fancied -- to the Private Eye lunch, which was every other Wednesday at the Coach and Horses/ Inn. I was there as a sort of eye-batting blonde -- they thought. The lunch was off the record, but I just ignored all those rules and wrote the whole thing up for Isis. . . . When I look back, it was sort of monstrous behavior really, except that they completely deserved it, because that's what they did to everybody all the time.''
While she resisted Waugh's advances, she didn't even try with Martin Amis. ''At that point I'd gotten a literary agent, Pat Kavanagh, who was sort of the fashionable agent,'' Brown said. At one of Kavanagh's agency's parties, ''Martin's there, of course being absolutely divine. We were talking about writers we admired, and I said my favorite writer of all is this guy who writes for The New Statesman, Bruno Holbrook. And there was this sort of pause, and then Martin, with his long eyelashes, you know, said, 'I am Bruno Holbrook.' It was like Cupid's dart. Whereupon we went off for a great meal, and then, you know, two days later. . . .'' She laughed, describing them as narcissistic -- ''always going into photo booths and thinking we looked just alike.''
At the time, Amis says, he was feeling unattractive and insecure, ''a kind of Larkin self-gloom. It's very self-fulfilling and gets worse very quickly. It's a vicious circle inside oneself. And Tina brought me out of it.''
When she was 25, Brown became editor of Tatler, a stuffy London society magazine on the verge of extinction. She turned her pen on her own readers. ''She had a natural satiric outlook,'' Glover says, ''and not being of that class herself, she was prepared and eager to send them up. She was quite interested in writing about decadent aristocrats as their world was disappearing, people who are sort of vanished now.''
Brown continued: ''I discovered the great secret was photographers. As editor of Tatler, I would say, 'I want to send Norman Parkinson or Derry Moore to take pictures of your stately home.' And then I would show up. I was really a bit of a Jekyll and Hyde, because I was being the editor of the Tatler while a kind of fiendish reporter at the same time.'' Brown gave an example: ''I wrote about a dinner with Bobby Corbett that was totally off the record. He wrote me a postcard -- I've still got it. He wrote, 'This is the worst act of social betrayal since the massacre at Glencoe.' Which it was, but it was fun. The truth is, as a young girl, you can get a lot done.''
At Tatler she penned a salty ''guide to London bachelors,'' calling herself Rosie Boot. ''I am here to tell you,'' she wrote of one Simon Oakes, ''that his melting approach conceals an astonishing pre-happy-hour horniness that has earnt him, among other nicknames, 'Any time Oakes.' ''
Americans soon got their first look at Tina Brown in the NBC broadcast booth as a royalty expert, next to Tom Brokaw and Jane Pauley, for the wedding of Charles and Diana in 1981. ''There was a brief rattling rumor that our rival Barbara Walters had got the queen mother on ABC,'' Brown wrote in Tatler shortly thereafter, ''but this was soon replaced by more pleasing news. A technical fault had plunged Walters into headphones like earmuffs for 20 minutes of her show.''
By the time she turned 30, Brown had acquired a new boss -- the Conde Nast chairman Si Newhouse, who after buying Tatler hired her in 1984 to reinvent Vanity Fair -- and a husband, Evans, who'd gotten to know Brown when she wrote some articles for his Sunday Times and subsequently divorced his wife.
Brown imported her fascination with celebrity and her mixing of high and low culture to Vanity Fair, where she recruited a roster of all-star writers -- by doubling the going rate of $1 per word -- and boosted circulation to 1.2 million from 250,000, earning a reputation as a fearsome editor who assigned articles on a whim and then, when they came in, tossed them aside like bad poker hands. Her instincts as an editor were driven as much by fomenting ''buzz'' as by creating a legacy.
''Tina has Fleet Street blood in her veins,'' says her friend Hertzberg. ''She's from a journalistic culture that is newsstand-oriented, intensely focused on getting the audience to buy that day's issue, not just the brand.'' When Brown persuaded William Styron to write his depression essay, ''Darkness Visible,'' and publish it in Vanity Fair in 1989, it was difficult to tell whether she truly cared about depression or whether she had simply talked a great novelist into spilling his guts for her magazine.
Brown's free-spending ways at Conde Nast became part of her queasy mystique. ''Money was thrown around in an astonishing way,'' says one of her former colleagues from The New Yorker, ''partly because she was always changing her mind and so much was done at the last minute.''
''I always had a budget at Vanity Fair and The New Yorker,'' Brown said. ''People tend to think I had some kind of free checkbook. There was a reason I was given The New Yorker after Vanity Fair, and it wasn't because I'd gone and put Vanity Fair into the red.''
When Newhouse appointed her editor of his much-loved New Yorker in 1992, the resulting uproar fed Brown's excitement. ''Tina's sensibility has worked wonders when it plays off an existing stodgy institution, like Thelonious Monk playing a Rodgers and Hammerstein standard,'' Hertzberg says.
Others weren't dancing: Jamaica Kincaid called Brown ''a vulgarian'' and left the magazine. Garrison Keillor, a staff writer, also quit, saying: ''Tina Brown hasn't changed The New Yorker, she has obliterated it. . . . Once, The New Yorker was meant to be read; now it is only meant to be talked about.'' When Brown published The New Yorker's first-ever fashion issue, Newsweek mocked it as ''a 248-page wet kiss to designer royalty.''
Brown's willingness to publish glitzy, less-than-stellar articles galled traditionalists, all the more so because she was clearly doing it knowingly, to goose ad pages and circulation at the money-losing magazine. As one former colleague put it, ''She was trying to solve a business problem journalistically.'' Her detractors could have forgiven her bad taste; what they couldn't forgive was cynicism.
''Tina was very eager to have superb journalism in the magazine,'' says Lillian Ross, who joined The New Yorker staff in 1945 and had a 40-year affair as the former New Yorker editor William Shawn's ''other wife.'' ''And she had the kind of will to do what she thought was called for, no matter what anybody said about what was supposed to be sacred territory. She got rid of the villains she could get rid of. I loved working for her.''
Brown said that the ''best of the writers'' got what she was doing. ''People like John Updike, Brendan Gill, Roger Angell -- those guys utterly got it, they were totally onboard, they felt revived.''
''Tina was a force of nature, and something like her probably needed to happen to The New Yorker at that point,'' says Charles McGrath, who was The New Yorker's deputy editor when Brown arrived and is now a writer at large for The Times. ''And, as an editor, she had an uncanny sense for what was going to be the next big thing. It was weird, it wasn't like she listened to the radio or watched TV or went to movies apart from screenings, but she always knew.'' Under Brown, circulation rose to 800,000 from 650,000. (Its current circulation is just over one million.)
Brown's decision to leave The New Yorker -- where she remained in Newhouse's good graces despite spending an enormous amount of his money -- in 1998 and start Talk with the mercurial movie producer Harvey Weinstein left colleagues and competitors scratching their heads.
''It mystified me why you'd exchange the editorship of one of the world's greatest magazines for Talk,'' Glover says. ''I have to assume it's because she wanted more money, to be her own boss, to be a proprietor rather than an editor. That's where she is still.''
''I was getting restless,'' Brown said. ''I felt that The New Yorker should be more than a magazine, and I wanted to expand laterally. And I'd been talking a lot about that with Si, and I didn't feel that he got that. And then Harvey came along and offered me what seemed almost exactly that: a magazine, books, other things. It was that dot-com time. I was feeling very entrepreneurial. And at the time my mother was dying, and that unsettled me tremendously, and I think I was trying to distract myself from how I felt.''
''Tina's a revolutionary leader,'' Hertzberg says by way of explaining why she left The New Yorker. ''Revolutionary leaders go wrong when they stay too long. George Washington went back to the farm; Fidel Castro didn't.''
With an undisclosed equity position in the Newsweek Daily Beast Company, Brown has her wish of being an owner. Since her first issue of Newsweek on March 14, newsstand sales are up 57 percent over the dismal 2010 numbers; ad pages are up 14 percent, with new advertisers like Credit Suisse, Progressive Insurance, Charles Schwab, Omega watches and Poland Spring coming aboard.
Brown's early issues show signs of blood starting to pump through the veins again. A section called News Gallery showcases emotionally powerful photojournalism. ''You can do a lot with photographs in telling a story, because it means that you're in the news but you're not pretending you can be profound about it,'' Brown said.
At the same time, Brown's early issues have been strewn with standbys from her Rolodex: Hillary Clinton, Harvey Weinstein, Judith Regan, James Carville, Arnold Schwarzenegger. A new section called Omnivore: Want has featured $2,100 Chanel shoes, a $6,500 Audi bicycle and a $10,000 Burberry ''Python'' trench, items that would not be within reach of your average newsmagazine reader but that would feel right at home in, say, Vanity Fair.
''There's a great kind of high-low, newsy, sexy thing that the European newsmagazines have,'' Brown said. ''They have this great sort of slightly freewheeling pagination, where they go from a great sexy picture of an expensive watch to Libya or something. So I'd like to have more of that feeling in Newsweek. I think that's a great thing for a magazine, because that's where we all sort of are now, we're all multiplatformed, everything's messed up with everything else.''
Brown can't spend the way she used to, but she has made significant hires, like persuading Andrew Sullivan to airlift his wildly popular blog from The Atlantic into The Daily Beast. ''Tina has a total straightforwardness, no pomposity or pretension, which I find a refreshing change from many people in American journalism,'' says Sullivan, who brought three employees with him. ''And she has prodigious energy -- I've been e-mailing her for a few months, and it's never been more than five minutes before I've gotten something back.''
Other new NewsBeasties -- everyone Brown hires will work for both Newsweek and The Daily Beast -- include the British financial historian Niall Ferguson, The Washington Post's Pulitzer-winning fashion critic Robin Givhan and the longtime New Yorker writer Peter Boyer.
''On subjects she might know nothing about, Tina is capable of this almost-childlike enthusiasm that is very endearing,'' Boyer says.
The cover of Newsweek's May 2 issue featured the Olsen twins -- a sign that Brown hasn't lost her understanding of the nexus of celebrity, fashion and business. But what keeps her going? Isn't she weary and sated of celebrity -- her own and others' -- by now? Early on April 29, Brown would be in the ''Good Morning America'' broadcast booth in London for the wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton. She planned to fly back the next morning to host the Newsweek Daily Beast table at the White House Correspondents Dinner.
''The joy of my life with Harry,'' Brown said, laughing, ''is coming home from a fancy dinner with Harry -- and Harry always hates the dinner, whatever it is -- and him making himself a marmalade on toast standing in the kitchen and him ranting, 'How the hell could it have gone on as long as it did?' ''
He should probably not put away the marmalade. For Tina Brown, the long party's not over.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brown and Sir Harold Evans at their (practically) daily breakfast in the Sutton Cafe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER ANDERSON) (MM32-MM33)
COVER TO COVER: Brown's debuts, from 1979 (Tatler) to the present (Newsweek). (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD SOREL/CONDE NAST) (MM34
MM35)
 TALK OF THE TOWN: Brown and Evans at an Oxford fund-raiser at the Plaza in 1989. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON GALELLA /WIREIMAGE) (MM37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CATERING SERVICES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (55%); MARIA BARTIROMO (51%); PETER ORSZAG (50%); ROBERT DE NIRO (50%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



229 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 4820 words

HEADLINE: THE CONTENDER

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
The 39th, and 34th, governor of California was making his first trip to Los Angeles since being sworn in, for an evening speech in February to the city's Chamber of Commerce, and a swarm of reporters was waiting at Terminal A of the Bob Hope Airport in Burbank. Edmund G. Brown Jr. -- he has always preferred Jerry -- arrived from Sacramento not on a state aircraft (and certainly not a private jet, as was the preference of his predecessor, Arnold Schwarzenegger) but aboard Flight 896 on Southwest Airlines. As Brown walked off the plane and into the terminal, he was essentially alone, save for a few police guards who hung off to the side. There were no press aides, no advance staff, no speechwriters, no policy mavens; in short, nothing like the bustling entourage of self-importance that typically buffers a chief executive. 
Brown instantly found himself swimming in a sea of chaotic attention -- ''Governor, please come forward a little bit!'' ''Governor, could you look over here at the cameras?'' -- so he took charge: the governor staffing the governor. ''O.K., O.K., can everybody now see?'' Brown asked, as he wrangled a tangle of photographers, television cameras, radio correspondents and reporters into position. He settled a who-can-shout-louder face-off between two reporters by promising that each would get their turn, choosing the TV correspondent, John North of KABC, over a print reporter ''because he's older than you.'' North shot back: ''Thanks a lot -- younger than you, though.''
Brown proceeded to answer the reporters' questions with a display of self-confident humor and a command of facts, history and language that befits a man in the eighth decade of his life, as he likes to describe himself. The news conference ended, 22 minutes after it began, only when a reporter signaled the close with a clipped, ''Thank you, governor.'' Brown wandered down the terminal, trailed by two television reporters who wanted to book him for studio interviews. One handed him a business card, which Brown slipped into his shirt pocket. When the governor arrived at his waiting car, he laid a garment bag straight and neat in the trunk and climbed into the passenger seat.
Jerry Brown was already something of an oddity when he first was elected governor in 1974, succeeding Ronald Reagan, who, like Schwarzenegger, was an actor who became governor. Brown was, at 36, a symbol of the glamour and the restless adventurousness of California, as well as its quirkiness. But California and Brown have changed in the 28 years since he left the governor's office, and now they are relearning each other. Government has new rules, new problems, new politics and new players. It has grown, particularly in California, more ossified and divided. Term limits, the new governor suggested to me a few weeks after taking office in January, have turned out to be a force for bad, feeding the paralysis in Sacramento. Over late-night glasses of pinot grigio and plates of brussels sprouts at a restaurant near the State Capitol, he talked about lawmakers who now spend so much time worrying about getting elected to another, higher office that they have little time to consider the staggeringly complicated legislation that lands on their desks or to build working relationships with other lawmakers.
''The experts have taken over,'' Brown told me, referring to the more permanent class of legislative aides and lobbyists. ''The elected people are the ones who ought to be thinking about this, but they are all thinking about their next job. It has actually created more insecurity and less independence on the part of representatives.'' The days when legislation could be drafted by five elected officials in a room -- the governor and the majority and minority leaders of each party -- are gone. The lawmakers and staff members who ran the place when Brown last served as governor are also, for the most part, gone. ''The first time I came, most of them were older than me,'' he said. Now, ''I am older, and they are younger.'' Brown, who is 73, was governor when the Democratic leader of the Senate, Darrell Steinberg, entered college as a freshman in 1977.
Brown speaks with the assurance that comes with time and experience -- but also with the freedom that comes from being, you assume, at the last station of his career. Age has overtaken ambition; he is almost certainly not going to run for any higher office. By now, the contours of his story are mostly written: his years as governor, attorney general and mayor of Oakland. His races for the White House and the Senate. His squabbles with Bill Clinton and his romance with Linda Ronstadt. His passing fascination with Zen Buddhism and meditation. His trips to India to work with Mother Teresa. His domestic dabbles as a populist, a liberal, even a flat-taxer. Still, there is something slightly bizarre, at least by the usual rules of political advancement, in running for governor after having been governor, not to mention after waging three national campaigns for the White House. Of course, this is the man who ran for mayor of Oakland after he was governor, an odd political move that befuddled even his friends.
''I said, 'Listen, people are going to think you are insane,' '' said David Geffen, the entertainment magnate who has been close to Brown since Ronstadt introduced them when she and Brown were dating. '' 'Why would you want to have been governor and run for president and then be mayor of Oakland?' He said, 'There's a lot of work to do in Oakland.' '' The same kind of discussions took place last year, before his most recent gubernatorial campaign. ''I didn't want him to,'' his wife, Anne Gust Brown, told me. ''I wasn't opposed. I just did not particularly want him to and in fact argued, Why? Running for governor will be a lot of work.'' As Geffen asked Brown, ''Why do you want to put yourself through this much pain at this point of your life?''
California, in crisis, was calling him. His state's essential nature -- its sunny optimism, its sense of itself as a place of perpetual reinvention, its status as the first among equals of the 50 states -- was imperiled. ''Brown is facing as tough a challenge as any incoming governor; the task before him is ominous,'' Antonio R. Villaraigosa, the mayor of Los Angeles and for a while a potential rival for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, told me. Should Brown succeed, should he offer a coherent, Democratic response to the march of Republican government-slashing on display this year, his eighth decade might be the one he is remembered for, rather than some earlier years that he would prefer to forget: the failed presidential bids or the isn't-he-weird Governor Moonbeam ridicule that, fairly or not, is the first thing many people (or at least many Easterners) think of when they hear his name today. ''If you don't do it, they'll make you put it in,'' he told me, anticipating that this article would invoke the Moonbeam trope.
To no small extent, Brown is doing what he can to make sure he remains relevant in a profession in which you are forgotten soon after leaving the stage. And it's hard to imagine Brown not campaigning for something, even at an age when most people are thinking about retirement. ''My father used to say a politician is like a racehorse: when they hear the bell, they just start running,'' Brown said. A framed portrait of his father, Pat Brown, another former governor, hangs on a wall in Brown's suite of offices, where it looks down on him every morning as he arrives at work.
Brown's eyes flickered around his office in the Horseshoe -- a U-shaped warren of offices that make up the governor's quarters at the State Capitol -- as a bustle of visitors, aides and animals streamed through. It was a warm day in early March, and Jane Goodall had shown up unannounced to promote her campaign to save the chimpanzees. She swept in with an entourage, holding a stuffed monkey that Brown could not stop staring at. Goodall informed Brown that she used satellites to track deforestation and suggested that similar technology could be put to good use safeguarding California's environment. Brown stared back blankly. ''Too bad we don't have our California satellite, Mr. Moonbeam,'' Anne Gust Brown said to her husband, a reference to an ill-fated 1970s initiative that helped Brown earn his nickname. The governor's dog, a Pembroke Welsh corgi named Sutter, charged in and out, prompting sporadic ruminations by Brown on the psychic motivations of canines. ''I don't know what moves him, he just decides to come in,'' he said to Anne. ''Dogs are ambassadors from another world.'' The governor was tieless, wearing a green sweater. Anne, who is the special counsel to the governor and has an office up the hall, was in jeans. There were cardboard boxes stacked on the floor and empty picture hangers on the wall, contributing to an atmosphere of controlled chaos that seemed to please Brown. At one point, he stood up and walked over to his desk to retrieve a photograph from a box of memorabilia he carted back to Sacramento. It was of his father, sitting in this office with John F. Kennedy in 1959, when Kennedy came by in search of an endorsement. ''You are in a famous room,'' Brown said.
On one side of the Ronald Reagan Cabinet Room, as it is officially known, there was an almost-12-foot-long picnic table made of fir, along with two hard, backless benches. In its severity, the table invites comparisons with Schwarzenegger's decor; his offices were furnished with a sword from his days as Conan the Barbarian. The unforgiving benches discourage lingering or bloviating, which is why they are there: Brown is not one for long meetings. There is a daily 8 a.m. conference call with a small group of his senior staff, but Brown almost willfully refuses to participate, reading the morning political news on Anne's iPad as she, sitting in their Sacramento loft over breakfast, deals with the call.
He is more apt to impulsively pick up the phone to call a lower-level commissioner than agree to a scheduled briefing with a department head. ''He is not someone into structure,'' Anne says. ''Not at all.'' Decisions about where and when to go tend to be so last-minute that the police guards who accompany him make backup reservations on later flights for the governor on Southwest. Routine newspaper requests for his appointment calendars are exercises in futility; Brown does not live by a calendar. When it came time to propose major policy positions in the campaign, ''it would be me and Jerry sitting at the computer,'' Anne said. ''And he would call a bunch of guys, and I'd be sitting there saying: 'Education. What is your policy on education?' We'd work out a framework together, and he called a lot of experts. He knows a lot of people.''
Brown was late for a meeting with me because a 10-minute sit-down with a candidate for energy commissioner stretched to one hour, and after that he insisted on stopping to personally edit a one-paragraph press release on the budget. Three times. The governor inspects the most routine ''here be it resolved'' gubernatorial proclamations and letters before signing them. He was 45 minutes late to an annual dinner of Assembly Democrats at the Stanford Mansion in Sacramento over the winter, provoking a glimmer of impatience from the Assembly speaker, John A. Perez, who is known for demanding punctuality from his members. ''You know, I normally close the doors when the meeting is scheduled to begin,'' Perez said, as he waited outside for Brown to appear. When the governor arrived, he explained the delay by saying he had been ''making appointments.''
Brown cut his own staff 25 percent in an early sign of austerity. ''He doesn't need speech writers, policy ghostwriters, political consultants -- he doesn't need a lot of us,'' said Steve Glazer, his top political consultant. Brown refused to name a chief of staff, mocking the very concept. ''What is a chief of staff?'' he demanded sarcastically when I asked him about it. ''What is that? Everybody begins to think they are the president or governor or something.''
For this governor, no task seems beneath him, be it adjusting the thermo/stat in a meeting room or handling scheduling requests for his wife. Brown walked out of a meeting with business leaders one afternoon, cellphone to one ear, and said to me, ''Do you want to talk to Anne by the way?'' I nodded yes. ''He says yeah. Why don't you come on by?'' When Brown brought Warren Beatty along to a lunch speech in late February in Oakland, the governor became Beatty's handler, speeding the actor through the crowd of autograph and photo seekers. ''Come on, we want to keep moving!'' he said, looking over his shoulder at Beatty.
This stripped-down style has set a tone that seems right for these times. Small cuts, like reducing the number of cellphones and state cars, could easily have been lampooned as gimmickry but instead have resonated well on both sides of the aisle. With legislators, Brown's approach is one of nonchalant informality, as he sets out to recruit rather than confront. The contrast with his predecessor has proved something of a gift. ''He's very unpretentious,'' Steinberg, the Democratic Senate leader, said. ''He comes into our caucus lunch yesterday, and he doesn't sit down, he gets on the food line.'' Steinberg's Republican counterpart, Bob Dutton, said Brown called him right after the election. ''He offered to come down to me, and I said, 'You're the governor-elect, I should come to you.' '' They met at Brown's office in San Francisco. Aides who work in the Assembly speaker's office in downtown Los Angeles talk of answering a knock on the door to find the governor, alone, having wandered from his Los Angeles office in the same building, searching for the speaker. He turned up at a Republican reception at the Ella Dining Room and Bar in Sacramento the night after he delivered his State of the State speech. On another night, the governor popped up at a karaoke night for state lawmakers. (He did not sing.)
None of this is to say Brown is undisciplined. From speeches to news conferences to meetings with lawmakers, he has meticulously made his case for solving the state's budget crisis. He proposed eliminating a $26.6 billion shortfall with nearly equal measures of spending cuts -- to public schools, higher education, health care programs for the elderly, economic-redevelopment funds for communities -- and extensions of modest surcharges on the state's income tax (0.25 percent), sales tax (1 percent) and automobile registrations (0.5 percent) that would otherwise expire. More than $10 billion in cuts have already been signed into law. But if he cannot win approval for those taxes, he says he will close the rest of the gap by cutting spending further, declaring that he would not sign a budget that papers over the shortfall with fiscal trickery.
''At this stage of my life, I'm not here to evade or delay or kick the can down the road and play the same old game -- all of which I've been a part of during my life in politics,'' he said. ''But now the moment of truth is here. I want to face it honestly.''
Jerry Brown is the oldest man ever elected governor of California (shortly after he turned 73 in April, he became the oldest governor in the state's history), arguably taking on one of the most stressful jobs in public life: the office of the governor of California has basically ruined everyone who has wrestled with it for the past 30 years. He does not evade the subject of his age. Not that he could. ''I have the honor of having had you sign my diploma,'' Bernie Rhinerson, 60, who is the chief of staff at the San Diego Unified School District, told Brown as he stood to question him at a budget forum in January. Brown not only talks about his age, he rejoices in it. ''When I first started, I was a lot younger, I was always interested in change and throw-the-bums-out-of-office and get-new-people,'' Brown said to a conference of police chiefs in Anaheim in March. ''I don't say that anymore. Today I say, 'There's no substitute for experience.' We like change, but we like continuity.''
Brown's stamina and fitness are noted by adversaries and allies alike. ''I hope I'm in that good health when I'm 72,'' Dutton, the 60-year-old Senate Republican leader, said a few weeks before Brown turned 73. Still, Brown acknowledges he has lost a beat. He is bald, which has the effect of sharpening his already hawklike visage, with bushy white eyebrows and a slight stoop that sometimes makes him look like just another state bureaucrat as he wanders the halls of the Capitol. He has a huskiness of voice and a slight stiffness as he gets in and out of a car. ''Oh, yeah, I feel the effects of age,'' he told me as we sat in his office in March. ''You're not as acute as you were when you were younger. There's an aging process that I certainly have experienced. I'm in pretty good shape. And I do know more; there's an accumulation. But there's a big difference between 56 and 72. You do age. There are limits to our lives. They come to an end.''
He is compulsive about daily workouts: a three-mile jog along the Sacramento River with Anne or lifting weights in a gym. In an otherwise loosely structured existence, exercise is the one constant on his daily schedule. When the governor ran into Anne at the lunch he attended with Beatty in Oakland, the couple could be overheard engaged in this bit of bantering:
''You look great,'' Brown said to his wife.
''You look great,'' Anne responded. ''Did you work out today?''
''Yes, I did,'' Brown said. ''Did you work out today?''
''Yes I did,'' Anne said. At that point, Beatty, who is 74, turned in astonishment to Brown. ''You did?'' he said. ''For how long?''
Brown does push-ups, and he has a chin-up bar in his suite of offices. ''I am the one who got him to do pull-ups,'' Anne said. He lost a belly of weight before his most recent campaign, and Anne is always on him to watch his diet. When a waitress asked Brown during our dinner if he wanted more wine, Anne intervened. ''He'll have some water first,'' she said. Brown, who was picking at bread and French fries, was not on the program. ''No, I'll have more wine,'' he said.
Eighth decade or not, Brown's mental acuity can be imposing. Sharing a turkey sandwich with me and Maureen Dowd, the New York Times Op-Ed columnist, at a hotel meeting room in Anaheim not long ago, Brown started reminiscing about his 1992 campaign for president. ''In 1992, I gave a speech in Philadelphia -- which you didn't cover, I remember you were not there,'' he said, looking at me pointedly. He turned back to Dowd. ''Neither were you,'' he said. Brown not only remembered the year of the first New York Times Magazine profile of him (1975), he remembered who wrote it (Richard Reeves) and the theme of the piece, or at least the way Brown read it (Brown was smart but unlikable).
In some ways, Brown lives as much in his storied past as in the present: in the foyer of his office in March, he pulled out a letter Marshall McLuhan wrote him in 1979, praising one of his speeches. When, more recently, he spoke to the Chamber of Commerce in Los Angeles, the music rose to signal the end of his speech, and Brown started to walk away. But he returned to the microphone to extemporize on the technological trappings before him. ''I have to say one more thing: I don't use these teleprompters because I don't believe in them,'' he said, gesturing at the glass sheets in front of him. He seemed just as put off by the clear plastic lectern. ''I also don't like these glass . . . this is kind of like the Academy Awards,'' he said, before walking off, more Bemused Visitor From Mars than Grumpy Old Man.
Brown likes to tell Rip van Winkle jokes, and no wonder -- he now inhabits a world in which many people seem vaguely familiar, as if he had met them (and he very well might have) before entering into a long, deep sleep. There is the waitress walking over to greet him at a Sacramento bar he used to close back in his bachelor days, and the business leader who approached him at a reception outside the Chamber of Commerce dinner, as a string quartet played Lady Gaga's ''Bad Romance.'' ''What's your name again?'' Brown asked.
What seems to fascinate him most is how much his state has changed, a polarization that is as geographic and anthropological as it is political. ''The mountain people, the desert people and the farming people have a different view on family, on spending, on social fashions and religion even, when you compare them with the coastal people -- San Francisco and Los Angeles,'' he said, in a discussion on the differences between Republicans and Democrats. ''There are these divergent positions, and when we have to get agreement, that agreement is difficult.'' He mentioned that his father won many more counties in his re-election campaign of 1962 (against Richard Nixon) than Brown himself just did, even though Brown won a higher percentage of the vote than his father. Brown won 22 counties last November. His father had won 38.
''Today I've spent time on prisons,'' Brown said, glancing around a nearly empty restaurant in Sacramento as the hour reached 9:45 p.m. ''And renewable energy. Fixing the energy issue. I've been doing a lot of things. You can chew gum and jump rope at the same time. Right now I am focusing on my brussels sprouts. And my pinot grigio. So we can do a lot of things. It's not like I'm waking up and going to bed thinking only about the budget.'' This was back in January. Brown had turned slightly defensive at the suggestion that the budget could hijack his entire governorship. Yet it seems almost self-evident: the next few months could be the whole game here. If he is not able to meet this challenge, his next four years are likely to be devoured by the state's financial problems. He will not have the time, energy, money or capital to do anything else.
Brown is confronting many of the same obstacles that burden governors across the country. But because of the magnitude of the dollars in question and the essential collapse of California's system of government, his situation seems more dire, more intractable. The state's $26.6 billion shortfall was the equivalent to almost a third of next year's budget. Brown promised during the campaign that he would not raise taxes without putting it before voters. To do that, short of gathering signatures, he would need to win the support of two-thirds of the Legislature, which means finding four Republican votes. Republican governors like Chris Christie of New Jersey, Scott Walker of Wisconsin and John Kasich of Ohio have chosen confrontation in the face of their budget upheaval, but Brown -- who was certainly a bomb-thrower in his day -- has been as calm and patient as the Jesuit student he once was, solicitous of his opponents and, at least in appearance, their ideas: sharp spending cuts, reductions in pension benefits for union workers, deregulation. ''Scapegoating is very powerful stuff,'' he told me during a break in negotiations with Republicans in March. ''But I think it divides at a time we need to unify. It's very short term. You want to push, but you also have to include.'' As he has gone from lawmaker to lawmaker making his case, he has avoided ultimatums and threats, remaining calm if unwavering. ''He has made it very clear, 'If you don't like elements to my program, you can't just say no to them,' '' Perez, the Assembly speaker, told me. '' 'You have to come up with an alternative that creates comparable savings.' ''
At first, Brown's style raised hope that he might defy the understandably jaded expectations in Sacramento. Yet by the end of March, Brown gloomily called an end to his talks with Republican lawmakers, frustrated -- mystified, really -- that he was not able to close a deal.
There may be no better prism to view what is happening to the left during this era of the Tea Party than through Brown's difficulties this spring. Although Brown may never have been the liberal that many took him for, he falls on the left on any conventional political spectrum. In the midst of his bracing talk about the need to change the way business is done in Sacramento, he came under fire for negotiating agreements with California unions -- including some big supporters of his campaign -- that fell short of winning the concessions he had promised and that fiscal analysts say are critical for his state's long-term health. Yet at the same time, the argument playing out in this most Democratic of states is not whether there should be cuts in spending on social programs but whether the cuts should be very deep or very, very, very deep. Brown's budget is hardly the kind of proposal a governor like Brown's father would have championed.
For all that, it does not appear to be giving him any huge problems with his liberal supporters. Part of that is because this state is coming off almost eight years of Republican rule, which makes Brown seem much more acceptable by contrast. It is also a sign of just how anxious Californians are about the state's fiscal and political path and how few choices there really are. David Geffen said Brown has shifted because that is the only way to get anything accomplished. ''You'd have to call him a centrist -- more of a centrist than he was 30 years ago,'' Geffen said. ''You can only solve problems in the middle. I don't think you can solve problems from the left or the right.'' Most of all, Brown has been around a long time: His supporters trust him, and they know who they voted for. ''Jerry and I don't agree on many issues,'' said Jodie Evans, a longtime aide to Brown who today runs Code Pink, the antiwar group. ''But I don't believe there is anybody better to do this job right now. I might be outside the university protesting what he's doing, but there isn't anybody I trust the way I trust him.''
A few weeks after introducing his budget proposal, Brown met privately with Democratic legislators. The spending cuts were, as expected, causing distress among Democrats, though they were going to pass them. The tax extensions were even more of a problem; the Republican votes were still not there. When he was done making his presentation, according to people in the room, someone asked: ''What happens if Plan A fails? What is your Plan B?'' Brown didn't flinch. ''I believe in the Hernando Cortes approach,'' he said, invoking the Spanish conqueror. ''When you hit the shore, burn the ships. There is no Plan B.'' The lawmakers sat in disbelieving silence. But that remark was borne out after the collapse of the budget talks; it was not clear that Brown knew what to do next.
Unless Plan B really is to do precisely what he said he would do: cut billions more from the state's budget. The governor may be crafty -- he is very much a politician -- but on this point he seems utterly transparent. ''He is what he is, and he's been it for a long time,'' Beatty, who has been a friend of Brown's for 30 years, told me. ''After a few decades of skepticism about him, you can now see he really means what he says.''
In our conversations over the last few months, it became clear that Brown is considering, in the event of failure, a subversive notion, a last-stand response to the Republican agenda of blocking the tax extensions and forcing spending cuts: Let it happen. ''If you talk about taxes, you don't get elected -- so that's a nonstarter now,'' he told me. ''You have to keep cutting to the point where people say they want to increase their contribution.''
In other words, the only way a majority of Americans might reconsider taxes is if they experience the full brunt of spending cuts, not only in California but also in Washington. ''People have never experienced cutting like that before,'' Brown told me. ''That will create turbulence.'' If raising taxes is a nonstarter in this environment, change the environment.
Although Brown did not put it this way, this idea is the reverse of a Republican strategy known as ''starve the beast,'' in which politically popular tax cuts are intended to force subsequent reductions in government spending. The notion is most identified with Grover Norquist, the antitax advocate (and a powerful foe of Brown's bid to extend California's tax increases), who has said he wants to shrink government so that you could ''drag it into the bathroom and drown it in the bathtub.'' What Brown is proposing is to demonstrate just how disruptive a radically smaller government would be. Government might become so diminished that Californians demand to rescue it from Norquist's bathtub.
If Brown can't win his battle over taxes, this line of thinking goes, the next best thing would be for him to lose his battle over taxes. California would once again become a great national laboratory. ''It will be wrenching,'' Brown said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS ADESKO) (MM47)
Everywhere Man: Top row, from left: Brown, as a Jesuit seminarian, with his family in 1959
Ronald Reagan greets the governor-elect in 1974
campaigning for president at a disco in 1979
with the band Journey in 1981
sworn in as Oakland mayor in 1999
Arnold Schwarzenegger at Brown's swearing-in ceremony this year. Bottom row: with Linda Ronstadt, the Eagles and Jackson Browne in 1976
as a presidential candidate in 1976
as a presidential candidate in 1992, with Bill Clinton
at his marriage to Anne Gust in 2005, with Senator Dianne Feinstein officiating. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL
CHRIS WALTER/WIREIMAGE/GETTY IMAGES
SUSAN RAGAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS. BOTTOM ROW: CHUCK PULIN
GEORGE ROSE/GETTY IMAGES
CYNTHIA JOHNSON/LIAISON/GETTY IMAGES
JOHN STOREY/SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE/CORBIS.) (MM48-MM49)
 Budget Traveler: Brown meets educators and community leaders at Van Buren Elementary School in Stockton on April 14 to discuss California's fi scal crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT YAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM50) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); JERRY BROWN (89%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



230 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: The Inspector

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB. 
Leslie H. Gelb is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, a former senior official in the State and Defense Departments, and a former New York Times columnist.

 BODY:
THE AGE OF DECEPTION
Nuclear Diplomacy in Treacherous Times
By Mohamed ElBaradei
340 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $27.
The Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei has stated his intention to ''nominate myself'' to be president of Egypt, but this memoir will not improve his election prospects. In personal terms, it's hard to imagine anything less thrilling to Egypt's street revolutionaries than ElBaradei's accounts of his meals (''The food was very basic, with few choices: noodles, meat and kimchi; no fruit or salad'') and accommodations (''a worn, drab-colored suite consisting of a bedroom and a salon'') in places like North Korea. Nor will his fellow Egyptians be much intrigued by the details of his battles against nuclear proliferators. At the moment, the protestors have other priorities.
On the other hand, foreign policy leaders and wonks everywhere will find plenty in this memoir to stir debates about the most vital task for global survival -- the need to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, especially to rogue states and terrorists. 
That quest is ElBaradei's story. For decades he was an intimate participant in dramatic nuclear proliferation confrontations that dominated headlines. He served as a senior official at the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog and inspection arm, for 13 years (1984-97) before rising to its director-generalship in 1997. He resigned in 2009 after completing his third term and announced his interest in running against President Hosni Mubarak in the election scheduled for this year. In 2005, he and the agency were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their nonproliferation endeavors. Doubtless the Norwegian selectors, always ready to needle American hawks, also sought to reward his bold critique of the /American-led war against Iraq, especially since they drew ill-tempered ripostes from top officials in the Bush administration, particularly ''Dick Cheney and his faction.''
In many ways, this David-Goliath confrontation over Iraq both drove ElBaradei in his years atop the I.A.E.A. and also inspired this memoir. The Iraq story is well known. The Bush team insisted that Saddam Hussein/ -- who had cheated on nukes and chemical weapons once before and been caught -- had or was on the verge of acquiring nuclear weapons, and they demanded I.A.E.A. inspections of Iraq to confirm it. The agency conducted 247 inspections at 147 sites in Iraq from November 2002 until March 2003 and found no violations and no nuclear weapons. Nonetheless, the United States insisted on its own ''evidence'' and went to war. There can be no exaggerating the negative effects of this experience on world opinion toward the United States and upon ElBaradei himself as I.A.E.A. chief.
ElBaradei's self-proclaimed mission became preventing another Iraq-type war. To this end, he significantly upgraded the agency's inspection capabilities, building on the work of his predecessor, Hans Blix. At the same time, ElBaradei decried American counterproliferation efforts as warmongering. These campaigns provided the three themes of his memoir: the need to strengthen the mandate and standing of the I.A.E.A., to restrain sword-waving by the great powers (read the United States), and to emphasize diplomacy and collective security instead.
First, and not surprisingly, ElBaradei is well aware of the atomic energy agency's handicaps. For one, its inspections are generally restricted to Non-Proliferation Treaty members and only to those sites declared by those members. Extending this limited mandate to other sites requires a strong push from the United Nations Security Council. The agency has only some 2,300 employees, a very tight budget of about $450 million and limited /intelligence-gathering resources. Of course, ElBaradei wants to buttress inspection authority and capabilities. He wants more intelligence-/sharing from the big powers. He is particularly angry at Washington for not disclosing its intelligence that Syria was building a nuclear facility, and then for doing nothing to stop Israel from bombing that facility in 2007. He also pushes for tougher safeguards for nuclear material and for moving control of the developmental stages of the ''fuel cycle'' from national to international hands.
This is all sensible but probably not attainable. While the United Nations does a number of things quite well, it is not very adept or courageous when it comes to sensitive political matters and national prerogatives. Take, for example, the curious fact that the members of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights elected Libya to its chairmanship in 2003, despite its appalling record, because it was ''Africa's turn.'' If this is how business is done, it is unlikely that the I.A.E.A.'s board of governors and the Security Council will ever endow the agency with the common-sense powers and capabilities ElBaradei wants.
Beyond this, ElBaradei insistently describes the United States and other great powers as more the problem than the solution. In a ''new era, one characterized by clandestine activity and the willingness of some countries to blatantly deceive,'' the Iraq experience showed ''that this deliberate deception was not limited to small countries ruled by ruthless dictators.'' ElBaradei goes on to fault the United States for offering direct dialogue with North Korea while refusing talks with Iran ''without preconditions.''
He goes on to say that Washington does not seem to understand the actual causes of proliferation, which he writes ''were rooted much deeper, in the extreme economic and social inequalities that prevailed between North and South . . . and the conflicts and tensions that continued to fester in specific regions.'' Those tensions certainly lead to proliferation, but ''economic and social inequalities'' have no detectable bearing on why Libya, North Korea, Pakistan, India, Iran, Syria and Israel have pursued nuclear programs.
ElBaradei passionately advocates making diplomacy the main recourse in /counterproliferation -- and he's right to do so. But when he argues that ''the increasing distrust between different cultures'' form the barrier to ''an enduring and collective security'' he's on shaky ground.
His credo is diplomacy above all else, for however long it takes and whatever the risk that nuclear weapons will be built in the meantime. He exhibits more sympathy for non-Western proliferators and their needs than for the major powers and their security and political concerns. At times, his narrative comes close to condoning the motives of states that seek nuclear weapons. ''Iran's goal is not to become another North Korea -- a nuclear weapons possessor but a pariah in the international community -- but rather Brazil or Japan, a technological powerhouse with the capacity to develop nuclear weapons if the political winds were to shift, while remaining a nonnuclear weapons state,'' he writes. As for Iran's concealing its nuclear program at Natanz, he says Iran ''was not intending to 'hide' it per se.''
And he adds his voice to those who contend that the fight against proliferation can't succeed unless the established nuclear powers (above all, America and Russia) reduce their stockpiles and move toward nuclear disarmament. It will be many moons and unerringly effective inspections before leaders in Washington and Moscow contemplate such a course. Surely ElBaradei knows this.
Nonetheless, ''The Age of Deception'' provides the grist for serious debate even as it helpfully chronicles the International Atomic Energy Agency's journey and tribulations as it evolved from a relatively obscure group of technicians into an organization with growing international clout. But if those following in ElBaradei's path think they can combat proliferation without the major powers -- particularly the United States -- assuming a central role, they are wrong. Checking proliferation will require more innovative and tighter cooperation between the agency ElBaradei loves and the United States, of which he no longer seems especially fond.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNIBAL HANSCHKE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY (CAIRO, JAN. 30, 2011)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); INSPECTIONS (88%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORISM (52%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (82%)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (91%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (78%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); NORWAY (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Age of Deception: Nuclear Diplomacy in Treacherous Times, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



231 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Big-Government Skeptic

BYLINE: By FRANCIS FUKUYAMA. 
Francis Fukuyama is the author, most /recently, of ''The Origins of Political /Order: From Prehuman Times to the French Revolution.''

 BODY:
THE CONSTITUTION OF LIBERTY
The Definitive Edition. (The Collected Works of F. A. Hayek, Volume XVII.)
By F. A. Hayek
By Edited by Ronald Hamowy
583 pp. University of Chicago Press. $25.
The publication of the definitive edition of Friedrich A. Hayek's ''Constitution of Liberty'' coincides with the unexpected best-seller status of his earlier book ''The Road to Serfdom'' as a result of its promotion by the conservative talk-show host Glenn Beck. In an age when many on the right are worried that the Obama administration's reform of health care is leading us toward socialism, Hayek's warnings from the mid-20th century about society's slide toward despotism, and his principled defense of a minimal state, have found strong political resonance.
The new edition of ''The Constitution of Liberty,'' which was first published in 1960, differs from the original primarily insofar as the extensive endnotes in the original edition have now been placed at the bottom of the page and heavily annotated by the editor, Ronald Hamowy. The notes, often more extensive than the text itself, make clear the extraordinary breadth and depth of Hayek's erudition, and his ability to wander far beyond economics into history, philosophy, biology and other fields. 
Unlike Beck, Hayek was a very serious thinker, and it would be too bad if the current association between the two led us to dismiss his thought. Hayek always had problems getting the respect he deserved; even when he was awarded the Nobel in economic science in 1974, the awards committee paired him with the left-leaning economist Gunnar Myrdal. With the passage of time, however, many of the ideas expressed in ''The Constitution of Liberty'' have become broadly accepted by economists -- e.g., that labor unions create a privileged labor sector at the expense of the nonunionized; that rent control reduces the supply of housing; or that agricultural subsidies lower the general welfare and create a bonanza for politicians. His view that ambitious /government-sponsored programs often produce unintended consequences served as an intellectual underpinning of the Reagan-Thatcher revolution of the 1980s and '90s. Now that the aspirations of that revolution are being revived by Tea Partiers and other conservatives, it is useful to review some of the intellectual foundations on which it rested.
Hayek's skepticism about the effects of ''big government'' are rooted in an epistemological observation summarized in a 1945 article called ''The Uses of Knowledge in Society.'' There he argued that most of the knowledge in a modern economy was local in nature, and hence unavailable to central planners. The brilliance of a market economy was that it allocated resources through the decentralized decisions of a myriad of buyers and sellers who interacted on the basis of their own particular knowledge. The market was a form of ''spontaneous order,'' which was far superior to planned societies based on the hubris of Cartesian rationalism. He and his fellow Austrian Ludwig von Mises used this argument against Joseph Schumpeter in a famous debate in the 1930s and '40s over whether socialism or capitalism offered a more efficient economic system. In hindsight, Hayek clearly emerged the winner.
''The Constitution of Liberty'' builds on this view of the limits of human cognition to make the case that no government can know enough about a society to plan effectively. The government's true role is more modest: to create laws that are general and equally applied; these laws constitute the matrix in which the spontaneous interactions of individuals can occur. (It may, however, surprise some of Hayek's new followers to learn that ''The Constitution of Liberty'' argues that the government may need to provide health insurance and even make it /compulsory.)
There have always been two major critiques of Hayek's arguments, neither of which are fully answered by a re/reading of ''The Constitution of Liberty.'' The first comes from the left. Hayek provides a very minimalist definition of freedom as freedom from coercion, and particularly coercion by a central government. But as the economist Amartya Sen has argued, the ability to actually take advantage of freedom depends on other things like resources, health and education that many people in a typical society do not possess.
Moreover, freedom even in this minimal sense can be threatened by a variety of social actors, from wealthy elites to corrupt local governments to large corporations that hold a whip hand over their workers. A truly free society is not simply one that limits the power of the central government; many times in history, central governments have defended the liberty of non-elites against the coercions of well-/organized local power brokers. In American history, freedom for African-Americans did not evolve spontaneously. It required first a bloody civil war to end slavery and then intervention by the federal government a century later to bring about the end of legal segregation.
A second critique of Hayek has tended to come from the right. He is necessarily a moral relativist, since he does not believe that there is a higher perspective from which one person can dictate another's ends. Morality for him is more like a useful coordinating device than a categorical imperative. But surely the Western tradition that Hayek celebrates is as concerned with virtue as with freedom, whether from the standpoint of Christianity or that of classical republicanism. One searches in vain through this or any of his other books for a serious treatment of religion or the moral concerns that animate religious /believers.
In the end, what drove people on the left crazy about Hayek back in the 1950s is the same thing that makes him appealing to a Glenn Beck today. Hayek made the slipperiest of slippery slope arguments: the smallest move toward the expansion of government would lead to a cascade of bad consequences that would result in full-blown authoritarian socialism. If anything, however, the history of the past 50 years shows us that the slippery slope has all sorts of ledges and handholds by which we can brake our descent into serfdom and indeed climb back up. Voters in the United States and Europe took seriously the arguments about the dangers of big government and reversed course after the 1980s. Indeed, the pendulum swung so far backward that financial markets were left dangerously unregulated prior to the financial crisis. President Obama's return to ''big government'' didn't last more than a year before it was met with fierce /resistance.
In the end, there is a deep contradiction in Hayek's thought. His great insight is that individual human beings muddle along, making progress by planning, experimenting, trying, failing and trying again. They never have as much clarity about the future as they think they do. But Hayek somehow knows with great certainty that when governments, as opposed to individuals, engage in a similar process of innovation and discovery, they will fail. He insists that the dividing line between state and society must be drawn according to a strict abstract principle rather than through empirical adaptation. In so doing, he proves himself to be far more of a hubristic Cartesian than a true Hayekian.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM AFP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); AGRICULTURE (61%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (61%); RENTAL PROPERTY (61%); RENT CONTROL (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); GLENN BECK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: Constitution of Liberty: The Definitive Edition, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



232 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2755 words

HEADLINE: The Prince of Lord & Taylor

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
SCARSDALE, N.Y.
RICHARD A. BAKER dashes through the Lord & Taylor store here like Willy Wonka on a chocolate high.
Look at these sweaters!
Check out this Ralph Lauren!
Just wait till you see our store in Yonkers!
He squeaks to a stop at a table stacked with derriere enhancers. ''How is this doing, Charlie?'' he asks the store manager.
Then he surveys his domain: ''This building alone could be a $100 million property!''
If Mr. Baker sounds like a rich kid playing with his new toys, well, that's because he is a rich kid playing with his new toys. Only the toys happen to be two of the oldest department store chains in North America: Lord & Taylor, the grande dame that used to anchor the Ladies' Mile in Manhattan, and the Hudson's Bay Company of Canada, which traces its roots back to the 17th-century fur trade. 
How Mr. Baker, 45, came to own these baubles is a story for our financial times. He's not exactly a self-made man. His father, Robert C. Baker, owns a giant shopping mall development company. But in 2006, just before the recession, the younger Mr. Baker took a flier and bought Lord & Taylor, and later the Hudson's Bay Company, putting down almost no money and borrowing more than $1 billion to finance the deals. Just about everyone in retailing wrote him off. Many whispered that he would get hammered, like several investment hotshots who set their sights on this business.
But a funny thing happened on the way to the comeuppance. It turns out that Mr. Baker wasn't so bad at running department stores. In 2010, sales at Lord & Taylor's 46 stores rose 12.2 percent from the previous year, and are now higher than they were before the recession bit. And Hudson Bay's flagship Bay stores posted their first increase in same-store sales in a decade. Earnings at the combined companies totaled $450 million last year, before taxes, up from $330 million in 2009.
In January, Mr. Baker solved the company's debt problem, striking a complex deal to sell the rights to leases on an underperforming division of the Hudson's Bay Company to Target for about $1.8 billion. There are discussions about an initial public offering of the combined companies as soon as this fall.
''Richard shocked everybody,'' says Matthew E. Rubel, the chief executive of Collective Brands, which runs businesses like Payless ShoeSource.
REMEMBER that kid in high school who was always hawking T-shirts or trading baseball cards, rather than hitting the books? That kid was Richard Baker. He grew up in moneyed Greenwich, Conn., where he still lives. His high-school shtick was running his own high-end catering business. At 15, after taking courses at La Varenne, the Paris cooking school, he employed his private-school classmates as waiters and was hired for parties around Greenwich.
''He was more interested in business than in being the captain of the basketball team,'' his father recalls. ''He was making money for the sake of making money.''
His parents divorced when he was 12, and he spent most of his weekends with his father, visiting potential strip-mall sites. The Bakers grew up comfortably; they now live very comfortably. Richard Baker declined to show reporters his Greenwich house -- he does not want a ''Richard Baker's palatial estate'' article, he says, and one swimming pool is under renovation -- but the 10-acre property features loads of conceptual art that he and his wife, Lisa, commissioned, including a James Turrell pool.
He also has houses in Telluride, Colo., and on the North Fork of Long Island.
His father's lifestyle provides a glimpse of how Baker fils lives. In addition to houses in Greenwich and in Palm Beach, Fla., the elder Mr. Baker, 76, owns a floor-through apartment on Fifth Avenue and 63rd Street, looking out onto the Central Park Zoo. His view is of swimming sea lions, lolling polar bears and the exhibit housing a king penguin named Robert. (Richard and other family members, who had donated to the zoo, had him named in his father's honor.) A Degas and a Motherwell hang in his living room, and he owns Dublin, a thoroughbred that was in the Kentucky Derby in 2010.
He recruited his son into the family business after Richard graduated from the school of hotel management at Cornell. Richard had wanted to build a chain of chicken-wing restaurants, but his father talked him out of it during a walk along the beach near his summer rental in Quogue on Long Island.
''I said, 'You know, in a chicken-wing restaurant, you've got to be up early in the morning, you've got to work late at night,' '' Robert Baker recalls. '' 'Maybe you should see if the real estate business is for you.' ''
Richard agreed -- and soon, working for his father, came up with the idea of courting Wal-Mart to lease space at their malls; until then, the chain had not opened stores on the East Coast. His father remembers flying to the retailer's famously spare headquarters in Bentonville, Ark. ''We were in this room for three hours, sitting, without anyone offering coffee or water,'' he recalls. Finally, some lower-level executives came in, he adds, but little was accomplished.
Richard stayed with it, and Wal-Mart eventually did its first East Coast deal with the Bakers' company, the National Realty & Development Corporation, opening a store in Canandaigua, N.Y. Though Kmart would offer a dollar a foot more for a space, Robert Baker says, his son preferred Wal-Mart, believing that it had better growth prospects. Today, Wal-Mart has 35 stores in Baker-developed malls.
BUT by 2005, after working for his father for nearly two decades, Richard Baker grew restless. As a friend puts it, ''He didn't want to spend the rest of his life renewing Wal-Mart leases.''
The real money, by then, was in another kind of deal. Banks were heavy with cash and were lending billions to Wall Street investors to acquire giant companies. It was, as the dealmaker Henry Kravis would later call it, ''the golden age of private equity.''
In real estate private equity circles, retail companies became the hot investment, as their property holdings often made them worth more than their balance sheets suggested.
Mr. Baker became intrigued by a transaction known on jargon-happy Wall Street as an ''opco propco'' deal. In this structure, a retailer that owned its stores would be split into a retail operating company (opco) and a property company (propco). This way, a buyer of a chain could borrow more money to finance the acquisition by using the real estate as security, instead of just using the company's cash flow for collateral.
Banks were eager to finance property deals, thanks to a white-hot market in commercial mortgage-backed securities -- pools of bank loans backed by real estate from hotels, offices and stores that are then sold to investors and removed from bank balance sheets.
It may have been a bubble -- ''you could have taken over a whole country using C.M.B.S. in those days,'' says a senior real estate executive who has done business with Mr. Baker -- but it was one that Mr. Baker wanted to ride.
Over bagels and Nova at the Rye Ridge Deli in Stamford, Conn., Mr. Baker pitched Lee S. Neibart, a friend of his father's and a prominent New York real estate investor: Why not set up a private equity shop to do these deals?
With Richard Baker as chief executive, the Bakers, Mr. Neibart and Mr. Neibart's business partner Bill Mack formed NRDC Equity Partners, a private equity firm aimed at retailers.
Their first deal was a dud. After losing out to a consortium of real estate and private equity investors on Toys ''R'' Us in 2005, Mr. Baker and his partners invested $25 million alongside Apollo Global Management, the private equity firm, in its $5.1 billion purchase of Linens 'n Things. They lost their entire investment when the company, a housewares retailer, collapsed three years later.
Richard Baker says the fiasco taught him a lesson. ''Where I failed was that if I'm going to invest in a transaction, I need to control it,'' he says.
In 2006, Mr. Baker suspected that Federated Department Stores, which had just acquired May Department Stores, would put May's tired Lord & Taylor chain on the block. Before Federated even asked for bids, Mr. Baker kicked the tires and lined up financing, letting him close the deal before other parties had completed their bids.
To pay for Lord & Taylor, which cost $1.2 billion, Mr. Baker and his partners invested just $25 million of their own money and borrowed the rest against the chain's real estate, including the Manhattan flagship on Fifth Avenue at 38th Street. The deal was financed with more than $1 billion in C.M.B.S. loans from -- ah, 2006 -- Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers.
''We paid a full price for it, but the real estate was sufficient to bail us out as a backstop,'' Mr. Neibart says.
The Hudson's Bay Company, one of the oldest companies in North America, would be the next target. Its crown jewel was the Bay chain, with about 90 locations. ''Richard knew that there were at least 10 department stores in the United States that filled the market that the Bay could fill alone in Canada,'' says Bonnie Brooks, who Mr. Baker appointed as C.E.O. of the Bay division in 2008.
Canada has Sears at the bottom of the department store market and Holt Renfrew at the top, Ms. Brooks says. ''The only store between Sears and Holt is really the Bay,'' she says. ''And in America, in that same zone, you have everyone from Saks to Lord & Taylor to Macy's, Dillard's, Bloomingdale's.''
And there was the Hudson's Bay Company real estate. The chain owns many of its stores, including the Bay flagships in Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver.
Mr. Baker also found the company an alluring target because he thought United States chains would want to expand northward. In Canada, new builders go through a long government approval process; the simplest way to enter the market is through acquisitions.
He picked up the phone and cold-called Jerry Zucker, a billionaire businessman in South Carolina who had acquired Hudson's Bay in late 2006. Mr. Baker offered to buy 20 percent of it. The deal was made in early 2007, for $100 million, with just $10 million cash down. His father was not thrilled.
''He overpaid for the 20 percent that we bought, and we did not have sufficient protection,'' Robert Baker says.
About a year later, Richard Baker received a call from Mr. Zucker, who told him he had brain cancer and would be dead within three months. Would Mr. Baker like to buy the rest of the company? It would be their last conversation. Mr. Zucker died three weeks later.
The Bakers' group negotiated the deal with Mr. Zucker's estate, offering $1.3 billion for the Hudson's Bay Company -- but it didn't have to open its own wallets. Of that amount, about $1 billion was debt. The remaining $300 million was covered by a sovereign wealth fund in Abu Dhabi -- a longtime investor with Mr. Mack and Mr. Neibart -- that invested $500 million cash. (The leftovers went to pay down some debt.)
Mr. Baker formed a holding company, the Hudson's Bay Trading Company, that owned Lord & Taylor, the Bay stores and Canadian units like Zellers department stores. The Middle East investors owned just under half of it.
He hired new executives and began to trumpet turnaround plans. It was July 2008, three months before the collapse of the financial markets.
BRENDAN HOFFMAN has the broad shoulders and the wide, friendly face of a high school football player. He is 42 but looks no older than his late 20s. In 2008, he was heading Neiman Marcus's catalog and online sales division when Richard Baker called. How would he like to bring his luxury contacts to Lord & Taylor?
Mr. Baker thought the stores looked dull, and wanted to continue an upscale move away from middle-America brands like Nautica and Gold Toe socks and toward hot designers like Theory and Kate Spade. Mr. Hoffman was brought in as C.E.O. to do just that.
On the day after Labor Day in 2008, when Mr. Hoffman accepted Mr. Baker's offer, the Dow Jones industrials closed at 11,517. By the end of his first week on the job in October, it had sunk as low as 7,774. Almost immediately, sales at mid- to upper-end retailers went into a tailspin. At Lord & Taylor, where rumors were already rampant about its solvency, it was worse.
''We're a highly leveraged company that now is dropping 15 percent on sales,'' Mr. Hoffman recalls about that time.
The holding company seemed to have contracts with just about every troubled business. In addition to its loans financed by Lehman and Bear Stearns -- which had been sold off by then, making it beholden to smaller investors -- its merchandise was marooned on container ships because of questions about the validity of its insurance policies with the American International Group. A trucking company had stopped delivering goods because its line of credit with Wachovia was uncertain.
''Vendors were asking for 10 percent payment up front, prepayment, 15-day payment cycles,'' Mr. Hoffman says. ''Goods were coming in two weeks later than competitors', and we didn't have enough people in finance to answer the phones.''
As the luxury market tanked, the executives abandoned the upscale move at Lord & Taylor and focused instead on more clothing with mass appeal. They sliced $400 million from the holding company's budget, and Mr. Baker jettisoned several of his grand plans. An in-house fashion-designer incubator at Lord & Taylor was closed, and he liquidated Fortunoff, which NRDC had acquired out of bankruptcy.
Sales at Lord & Taylor fell 10 percent in the first half of 2009 versus the year-earlier period and were off 2 percent for the year as a whole -- still much better than many rivals' results. And the figures have continued to improve.
That's attributable, Mr. Baker says, to investment in stores. Profits went into refurbishing them, adding artificial and natural light and switching out brands.
''I think because of his real estate background, the floor space is almost a sacred area,'' Mr. Hoffman says. ''It's like tenants paying rent: 'We've got to find what will maximize the return for it.' ''
Though industry consultants say the stores look good, they question the strategy of carrying brands that can be found anywhere.
''I was in there the other day and I thought it was fabulous,'' says Emanuel Weintraub, founder of a firm that consults with retailers and vendors. ''The bottom line is, will they be able to get the exclusive brands, or the high-profile brands, that their competitors have?''
The Bay stores have taken a more upscale approach. They have dropped 900 mostly lackluster brands and has brought in new ones like Coach. The Bay, too, will revamp almost all its stores by year-end. Its sales at stores open at least a year, a key measure of retail health, rose 4 percent in 2010, the first increase in more than a decade.
The holding company's debt problem was largely solved by a transaction struck in January. Target agreed to pay about $1.8 billion for the rights to leases on up to 220 Zellers department stores, a discount chain unit of Hudson's Bay.
Over all, the Hudson's Bay Trading Company business now has about $7 billion in retail sales and more than 50 million square feet of real estate worth billions of dollars. For their slice, Mr. Baker and his partners laid out a total of about $25 million. Today, by conservative estimates, that stake is worth nearly $1 billion on paper. For those keeping score, that's about 40 times their cash investment, though they have yet to withdraw any profit from the business.
MR. BAKER prefers to do most of his business from the back of his Cadillac Escalade. His driver, Kevin R. Maher, leaves it running while idle, in case Mr. Baker wants to save a few seconds getting somewhere.
Unlike old-money sorts who try to play down their wealth, Mr. Baker seems to revel in his. He has Mr. Maher take a spin through the Brunswick School in Greenwich, a private school for which he helped build a new campus. (He attended it, as do his sons.) He alludes to his family's Gulfstream jet and talks about his art collection.
When not working on deals, he often spends his days walking through stores -- and you get the sense that their managers are accustomed to seeing his caller ID come up on their phones.
He is so busy at his stores that another big acquisition seems unlikely for now. But you never know. As his father says: ''I'm comfortable that he's not going to turn around and try to buy General Motors or something -- other than if he does it with a little bit of our money and a whole lot of someone else's.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard A. Baker in Lord & Taylor's flagship store in Manhattan. Raised on real estate deals, he has turned a tidy, surprising profit in retailing.(BU1)
Lord & Taylor's flagship store now includes a section for Hudson's Bay Company products, since Richard A. Baker bought both and merged them. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Robert C. Baker, left, and his son, Richard, who branched out from buying and managing strip malls to running two old-money department stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RAMIREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); BASEBALL (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); CATERING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (95%); LORD & TAYLOR LLC (92%); COLLECTIVE BRANDS INC (51%); PAYLESS SHOESOURCE INC (51%)

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (92%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (51%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD BAKER (79%); RALPH LAUREN (72%); MATTHEW E RUBEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



233 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Family Feuds

BYLINE: BRIAN D. MCKNIGHT


HIGHLIGHT: In the Appalachians, the Civil War was often literally brother against brother. 

 BODY:
The narrative of the Civil War revolves around the metaphor of neighbor against neighbor, brother against brother. But in the mountains of the Upper South, this was no metaphor: counties, towns and even families split between the two sides, and then set upon each other with gruesome fury in one of the bloodiest - and least understood - theaters of the war. 
Long isolated from the slave-economy politics of the coast and Lower South, residents of the mountainous corners of Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina and Tennessee were generally pro-Union. But many were also deeply opposed to abolition, and turned against the North when it declared war on their fellow Southerners. 
Such choices were driven by a complex mix of loyalty, economic self-interest, fear and pride. Take, for example, the Johnston brothers of Abingdon, Va., a small Appalachian town near the tri-corner border with Tennessee and North Carolina. Both men were strongly tied to the Union. After attending West Point, Joseph Eggleston Johnston set off on a stellar military career, serving in Florida, Kansas and Texas before coming to Washington as the Army's quartermaster general. 
Meanwhile his older brother Peter was a leading pro-Union delegate to the Virginia Secession Convention, which met in Richmond during the spring of 1861. From inside the convention, Peter assured Joe that he did not think the secessionists could carry the day, even though "every device is resorted to - every appliance is used - every outside pressure is brought to bear, that the seceders can invent: amongst others, mobs are gathered and paraded along the streets."
Peter reassured his brother that the state's secession remained unlikely; he was right, at least at first: on April 4 the convention voted against secession by nearly two to one. But within weeks, after Fort Sumter and Lincoln's call for troops, forcing even the most ardent Unionists to reconsider their position. Almost immediately, a local paper reported, "Union fever is gradually dying out" even among former opponents of secession. On April 17, many of the convention's delegates cast votes that they never thought possible. Even Peter Johnston voted for secession. Five days later, his brother Joe met with Secretary of War Simon Cameron and tearfully resigned his commission in the United States Army.
Other members of southwestern Virginia's delegation had similarly difficult paths to secession. William Aston, whose farm straddled Russell and Wise counties, told his fellow delegates that he had came to the convention to "maintain the Union of these States consistently with the honor of Virginia. But, sir, within the last day or two, I have, like every one else on this floor, lost all hope of preserving the Union." John Sharp, of Lee County, the state's westernmost, was more direct in his opposition, saying that "the separate and immediate secession of Virginia is equivalent to immediate war. And in the unprepared and defenseless condition of the state, war is destruction and direful ruin to her. She is without soldiers, arms, money and credit; and with a debt of forty millions hanging over her without the means of payment." 
Aston and Sharp had voted against secession less than two weeks earlier, but they changed their votes in spite of their personal feelings. For them, and their constituencies, joining the eastern Virginia secessionists was necessary: unlike the northwesterners who would eventually leave the state and form West Virginia, these southwestern Virginians knew that their rivers, roads and rails ran east and west and were tied to markets in Knoxville, Chattanooga and Nashville. Voting against their own economic self-interests, and what by now was a foregone political conclusion, was tantamount to political suicide within the new southern nation.
Virginians weren't the only ones facing the tough choices imposed by secession. Two hundred miles west of Abingdon, Mary Catherine Sproul of Overton County, Tenn., was watching the local contest over secession. A schoolteacher and ardent unionist, she looked forward to the coming visit of Representative Horace Maynard, one of East Tennessee's most influential politicians. However, before Maynard even set foot in the county to rally unionists to the old flag, secessionists announced that they planned to "riddle his hide" if he attempted to take the stump. The next day, pro-southern Overtonites approved a local resolution that forbade Maynard from speaking in their county.
Amanda McDowell lived in Sparta, Tenn. On June 9, 1861, the day after Tennessee voted to leave the Union, she recorded the details of the day before. She wrote pessimistically, "I guess it is voted 'out of the Union' by this time. But it would not have been had the people been allowed to vote their true sentiments." Fearing for their lives, "Nearly all the Union men in this neighborhood stayed at home, not wishing to get into a brawl and deeming it a hopeless cause." Frank Coatney, a man McDowell knew well, "voted Union, said he would do it at the risk of his life, and did it, but things got so hot that he had to leave the grounds." For his trouble, secessionists planned to visit his house that very night.
Sixty miles northeast of the McDowell home, Champ and Jim Ferguson were also dealing with the issue of secession as a family. The Fergusons lived in Clinton County, Ky., which stood on what the Confederacy would soon consider an international border. Living so close to Tennessee, the brothers were intimately familiar with being borderlanders in peace. But war was another story. The elder sons of a large family whose patriarch had died a decade earlier, Jim and Champ understood that their decision would probably mark them as targets for whichever cause they rejected. 
In the end, Jim chose the Union and spent the next several months as a scout searching out southern sympathizers in Kentucky. On the night of Dec. 18, 1861, he opened the door to a cabin and was gunned down by an unknown figure in the darkness. Before he passed, he admitted to killing eight men in the preceding six months. Champ chose the Confederacy and survived the war. When it ended, he was arrested, tried and convicted by court martial of the murder of 53 men and boys, although he estimated the total to have been much higher. The Civil War, as it came to the vast Appalachian region, brought Hell with it.
Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.
Brian D. McKnight is an associate professor of history at the University of Virginia's College at Wise. He is the author of "Confederate Outlaw: Champ Ferguson and the Civil War in Appalachia" and "Contested Borderland: The Civil War in Appalachian Kentucky and Virginia."

        
What Would Jefferson Do?
        
Bluegrass Blues and Grays
        
Maryland, My Maryland
        
The General in His Study
        
Virginia's Moment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); POLITICS (76%); ARMED FORCES (67%) abraham lincoln; Appalachia; civil war; Kentucky; Tennessee; Virginia; Johnston, Joseph E; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Appalachian Region; Disunion

PERSON: Johnston, Joseph E; Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Appalachian Region; Kentucky; Tennessee; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



234 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Derby Winner Sets Shining Example for Wayward Industry

BYLINE: JIM SQUIRES


HIGHLIGHT: Well-bred and inexpensive, Animal Kingdom is a shining example of everything that has gone wrong in the American thoroughbred breeding industry and everything that can save it. 

 BODY:
LOUSIVILLE, KY -- Even though the winner has a Brazilian-bred sire and a German-bred dam, the 137th Kentucky Derby made a big run toward retaining its eminence as the world's greatest race. The reasons are legion.
Animal Kingdom was Kentucky-bred, born and raised in the Bluegrass State, as was 75 percent of the field. His sire, with an impossible to pronounce, decidedly non-commercial name - Leroidesanimaux - is at once a shining example of everything that has been going wrong in the American thoroughbred breeding industry and everything that can save it. 
The Derby champion's sire is a beautifully bred, inexpensive stallion with a grass-horse pedigree that never earned more than a $17,500 stud fee or was ever subjected to the massive overbooking of mares that ultimately resulted in the devastating devaluation of all Kentucky stallions. And until Saturday, he had disappeared into near obscurity because of the sport's mindless fascination with speed-on-dirt-sale horses and the kind of financial shenanigans that put his stallion manager into disgrace and bankruptcy. The crashing of the now-bankrupt Stonewall Farm, where Leroidesanimaux entered stud in 2008, is a shining example of an over-borrowing, overspending industry that believed itself immune to the laws of supply and demand. 
Yet Animal Kingdom is precisely the kind of horse that made the Kentucky thoroughbred the most valuable and sought-after equine commodity in the world for the last half century. A homebred from imported bloodstock, just like the horses that made the Bluegrass famous, he never produced offspring precocious and marketable enough to be stuffed with steroids and pushed through the yearling and 2-year-old training sale mills only to become nonperforming multimillion dollar failures. That alone ought to be enough to make Animal Kingdom an American equine hero the equal of Zenyatta, but there is more - a lot more.
The connections that followed him into the world's most coveted winner's circle to be seen by millions were a credit to the sport, unlike some of their swaggering, embarrassing, fist-pumping predecessors in recent years. His modest, soft-spoken trainer, Graham Motion, is one of the two leading earners in the business never cited for a drug positive and one who would no trouble giving up drugs like Lasix on race day.
Barry Irwin, the leader of Team Valor, is more emotional, loquacious and sometimes controversial, but he was the model of humility Saturday, reduced to tears and unable to utter anything more than to brand his Derby luck "a dream come true." Irwin wants to win but not badly enough to retain trainers cited for drug positives and being untruthful, a rarity among owners in the sport.
Although Team Valor has benefited by moving horses to the United States from non Lasix-tolerant racing jurisdictions, he is one of the owners perfectly happy with a drug-free playing field. He believes he can breed a horse that can compete around the world without relying on race-day drugs. Animal Kingdom may have proved that Saturday, winning on dirt after earlier scoring victories on both turf and synthetic surfaces in a short racing career.
The presence of Team Valor in the winner's circle also validates a business model that represents an important economic opportunity in the sport's future. Already the most successful and only truly global of the United States-based partnership racing stables, the Team Valor concept brings new owners into the business at an affordable level. Many of its successful horses have had literally dozens of owners, among them Unbridled Belle, who once sold for $6,000 but eventually earned $1.9 million and turned her $5,000 dam into a once-fluid revenue stream for a struggling farm - mine.
Moreover, Animal Kingdom and the nature of the field he conquered could signal an important turnaround in the direction of the Kentucky breeding industry that has been in a decade-long spiral. More than half the starters fit the same profile as the winner - from smaller foal crops produced by inexpensive sires and modestly bred mares for small-time breeders. 
Behind him on the board at extraordinarily profitable odds for winning bettors was Nehro, a son of beautifully-bred stallion Mineshaft who stands at Lane's End, the top Kentucky-owned stallion farm, for $25,000 - perhaps the best stud-fee bargain in the world this year. Finishing third was Mucho Macho Man, a grandson of the 20-year-old American racing icon Holy Bull, who is still available to breeders for $10,000. Missing from the entire field or not having their named called at all were all the leading yearling and 2-year-old sale horses from the 2008 foal crop and offspring of the speed-gene-dispensing, sale-leading sires of recent years. Not a single Storm Cat or Unbridled Song in the gate. And missing from the celebration afterward were all the rich publicity-seeking egomaniacs trying to buy the Triple Crown and become celebrities in the sport.
Tote up all that with the best day yet in a terrible-weather Kentucky spring, a record crowd of nearly 165,000 people, and the third-highest all source Derby day wagering of $165 million, and there might have been justification for the Kentucky governor still proclaiming the commonwealth as the Horse Capital of the World - maybe.

        
Animal Kingdom Wins Kentucky Derby
        
On Derby Morning, Dialed In Looks Ready
        
The Morning Line: All Eyes on Graham Motion
        
A Jockey's View of the Derby
        
The Morning Line: Spoils Go to Animal Kingdom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (92%); HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); DEVALUATION (68%); STEROIDS (63%) Animal Kingdom; Kentucky Derby; Motion, Graham; Breeding of Animals; Horse Racing; Triple Crown (Horse Racing)

ORGANIZATION: Animal Kingdom

PERSON: Motion, Graham

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



235 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 58 words

HEADLINE: The Invisible Bond Vigilantes Have Resumed Their Invisible Attack

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: They'll keep punishing us with low, low rates. 

 BODY:
Look at 10-year TIPS yields:
It's truly amazing that Washington debate is dominated by fear of the bond market. And it's also truly amazing that nobody is suggesting that a government able to borrow long term at a real interest rate of 0.7 percent really should be taking advantage of those rates to finance some much-needed infrastructure investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



236 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Obama Can't Depend On New Poll Numbers

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: While Osama bin Laden's death raises the president's profile, he is prone to the ups and downs of other pressing matters. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Politically speaking, President Obama walks taller now that American commandos, on his order, found and killed Osama bin Laden.
So what difference does that make?
The short answer, Obama advisers and outside analysts in both parties say, is that it makes some difference, but not a dramatic one. In distinct if subtle ways, it alters calculations by the White House and its partisan adversaries concerning his foreign policy goals, domestic agenda and prospects for re-election.
"You have to take the security, personal and economic things in different buckets," said John Podesta, who managed Mr. Obama's transition to the White House and served as chief of staff for President Bill Clinton.
Last week's raid plainly strengthens Mr. Obama's ability to fulfill his commitment to begin withdrawing troops by July from Afghanistan, where President George W. Bush went to war in the name of destroying Bin Laden's terrorism network. Republicans' ability to challenge the winding down of that increasingly unpopular conflict has diminished.
There is no comparable domestic policy effect. On the biggest issue dividing the parties - how to close budget deficits - even a strengthened president cannot compel ways to resolve deep substantive and political differences on taxes and spending. Nor has Mr. Obama assured himself of a second term. That will likely depend on voters' assessment of his handling of the economy.
Yet his enhanced stature may nevertheless ripple through domestic debates. His rising approval numbers certainly raise the cost of Republican resistance to his priorities.
"The stronger he is," Mr. Podesta concluded, "the more likely they are to find something to agree with him on."
Higher and Lower
Recent history suggests two truths about the "political capital" that presidents reap from triumphs or unexpected events. The capital dissipates, sometimes rapidly, and it has limited uses.
After the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson entered the Oval Office on a wave of popular support. His Gallup Poll approval rating remained above 70 percent through his landslide 1964 election over the Republican nominee, Barry Goldwater, whom he cast as a right-wing extremist.
Johnson capitalized on his standing, and on intra-Republican divisions, to muscle his Great Society agenda through Congress. But social upheaval and the Vietnam War drained his support and forced him to abandon his 1968 re-election campaign.
The first President George Bush soared beyond 80 percent approval after the 1991 gulf war. But he had few major domestic ambitions, and Mr. Clinton defeated him a year later by arguing that Mr. Bush had ignored the economy.
After 9/11, President George W. Bush set Gallup's all-time record with 90 percent approval. Support for his response to the attacks helped him move past the bitterness of the 2000 election, secure authorization of the Iraq war from Congress, pass the Patriot Act and win a second term.
Yet Mr. Bush could not persuade a Republican-controlled Congress to advance his partial privatization plan for Social Security. By April 2008, battered by troubles from the economy, Iraq and Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Bush set a Gallup record for presidential disapproval - 69 percent.
The lesson for Mr. Obama: "It doesn't necessarily follow that there is political capital for other issues" unrelated to the fight against Al Qaeda, said the presidential scholar Charles O. Jones.
And Now to Business
So far, Mr. Obama's boost has been modest. On May 1, before news of Bin Laden's death, Gallup's daily tracking poll pegged his approval at 46 percent; on Sunday, it was 51 percent.
Yet Mr. Obama has solidified his credentials as commander in chief in a way that eluded his most recent Democratic predecessors and has undercut broader attacks on his leadership before 2012.
"There's now a new story line: he's determined, disciplined, decisive and effective," Mr. Podesta said. "He's got a much stronger hand" for controlling the pace of American withdrawal from Afghanistan.
But attention will soon shift from the daring commando raid to the partisan fight over reducing the deficit and raising the federal debt limit. There is no impact on conservative resistance to tax increases, noted the longtime Republican budget expert Steve Bell; Democrats have made tax increases a condition for cuts in Medicare and Social Security.
While it lasts, however, Mr. Obama's higher standing among independent voters could pressure Republicans to compromise on lower-profile issues that do not fall into well-worn partisan grooves.
Those issues include education, corporate tax overhaul and immigration, which Mr. Obama is to address in a speech this week. Advisers say he will repeat his call for a comprehensive new policy.
But that is likely to remain out of reach. Yet on some lesser steps to address immigration, Republicans may decide cooperation is "the better part of valor," Mr. Podesta said.

        
U.S. to Investigate Whether Pakistan Helped Bin Laden
        
Obama Fills a Gap in the Seals' Tool Kit
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
'Job Well Done,' Obama Tells Assault Team
        
Obama Blocks Release of Graphic Photos for Second Time

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%) osama bin laden; President Barack Obama; Terrorism; United States Politics and Government; bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Economy; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN PODESTA (78%) bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



237 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Business, States Loosen Insurance Rules

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Companies looking to do business in secret once had to travel to places like the Cayman Islands or Bermuda.
Today, all it takes is a trip to Vermont.
Vermont, and a handful of other states including Utah, South Carolina, Delaware and Hawaii, are aggressively remaking themselves as destinations of choice for the kind of complex private insurance transactions once done almost exclusively offshore. Roughly 30 states have passed some type of law to allow companies to set up special insurance subsidiaries called captives, which can conduct Bermuda-style financial wizardry right in a policyholder's own backyard.
Captives provide insurance to their parent companies, and the term originally referred to subsidiaries set up by any large company to insure the company's own risks. Oil companies, for example, used them for years to gird for environmental claims related to infrequent but potentially high-cost events. They did so in overseas locations that offered light regulation amid little concern since the parent company was the only one at risk. 
Now some states make it just as easy. And they have broadened the definition of captives so that even insurance companies can create them. This has given rise to concern that a shadow insurance industry is emerging, with less regulation and more potential debt than policyholders know, raising the possibility that some companies will find themselves without enough money to pay future claims. Critics say this is much like the shadow banking system that contributed to the financial crisis.
Aetna recently used a subsidiary in Vermont to refinance a block of health insurance policies, reaping $150 million in savings, according to its chief financial officer, Joseph M. Zubretsky. The main reason is that the insurer did not need to maintain conventional reserves at the same level as would have been required by insurance regulators in Aetna's home state of Connecticut.
In other big transactions, companies including MetLife, the Hartford Financial Services Group, Swiss Reinsurance, Genworth Financial and the American International Group, among others, have refinanced life, disability and long-term-care insurance policies, as well as annuities.
For the states, attracting these insurance deals promotes business travel and creates jobs for lawyers, actuaries and other white-collar workers, who pay taxes. States have also found that they can impose modest taxes on the premiums collectedby captives.
For insurers, these subsidiaries offer ways to unlock some of the money tied up in reserves, making millions available for dividends, acquisitions, bonuses and other projects. Three weeks after Aetna's deal closed, the company announced it was increasing its dividend fifteenfold.
And as changes to the nation's health systems are phased in, such innovations might even help hold down the cost of insurance for consumers, much as selling pooled mortgages to investors has made buying a home less expensive.
The downside, though, is that the states are offering a refuge from other states' insurance rules, especially the all-important ones requiring companies to have sufficient reserves. California, for one, has already chosen not to try to lure such businesses. ''We are concerned about systems that usher in less robust financial security and oversight,'' said Dave Jones, the California insurance commissioner.
While saying that he wanted to remain open to innovation, Mr. Jones added, ''We need to ensure that innovative transactions are not a strategy to drain value away from policyholders only to provide short-term enrichment to shareholders and investment bankers.''
The cost of some of the deals has been considerable. In 2008, MetLife used a subsidiary in Vermont to handle a crucial $3.5 billion letter of credit, with help from Deutsche Bank, because the subsidiary was not subject to the same collateral requirements as in New York.The trade immediately bolstered MetLife's balance sheet, helping the company to endure that year's market turmoil without government assistance. But MetLife agreed to pay Deutsche Bank $3.5 million a year for 15 years, according to internal documents obtained by The New York Times -- locking itself into high costs for years.
MetLife said its transaction was in keeping with industry rules and norms, and Deutsche Bank declined to comment.
Another issue is public oversight. State regulators normally require insurance companies to make available reams of detailed information. A policyholder can find every asset in an insurer's investment portfolio, for instance, or the company the carrier turns to for reinsurance. But not if the insurer relies on a captive. The new state laws make the audited financial statements of the captives confidential.
A.I.G. illustrates the kind of secrets companies can keep. One of its many lines of business involves a mortgage insurance unit, based in North Carolina but with affiliates as far away as Australia. The unit promised to keep making payments when homeowners defaulted, but nearly failed when the housing bubble burst in 2008 and claims poured in.
Normally, state regulators shut down insolvent insurers, but Vermont saved the day. It allowed A.I.G. to create a subsidiary, called MG Reinsurance, that took on $7 billion worth of insurance claims. Getting the claims off the books of the North Carolina unit made it solvent again, so it could keep selling more policies.
A.I.G.'s mortgage insurance affiliates in Europe and Australia sent the Vermont captive even more obligations, making the transfers retroactive to Jan. 1, 2009, even though MG Reinsurance was not licensed until May. That turned what would have been big losses into a modest profit for A.I.G.'s offshore mortgage insurers.
Vermont's confidentiality rules make it impossible to find out how MG Re is juggling all that debt. A.I.G. is liable, but for now the problem is hidden away.
A.I.G. confirmed it was responsible for the pending claims but declined to comment further.
David F. Provost, the deputy commissioner of captive insurance in Vermont, said he believed confidential treatment was appropriate because these entities were, in essence, insurance companies with only one policyholder -- their parent. He said Vermont's large and experienced staff of regulators vetted all transactions carefully to make sure they were sound.
Furthermore, he said, his staff worked with less experienced states to help them avoid undue risks. ''We try to make sure that everybody does a good job,'' Mr. Provost said.
Vermont sought the business in a big way back in 2001, when Governor Howard Dean announced the state would take on Bermuda. Before long, the taxes it levied on the insurance premiums collected by captives, as well as from additional fees, were enough to cover 2 percent of state spending. Vermont also credits these insurance subsidiaries for the creation of 1,400 full- and part-time jobs, and for roughly $1 billion deposited with banks and other financial institutions.
Perhaps more important, Vermont redefined the term ''captive'' to include subsidiaries of insurance companies.
''It is no longer 'captive' insurance,'' said Thomas D. Gober, a financial fraud examiner who specializes in complex reinsurance transactions. ''It's now billions of dollars from all over the country, yet it's still being regulated lightly, as if it's captive.''
Other states took note of Vermont's success. Hawaii charged lower taxes than Vermont on the revenue that captives took in on premiums, leading Vermont to reconsider its rates. Delaware gave its insurance commissioner the power to exempt a captive from provisions of state insurance law; the number of captives in the state doubled last year.
New Jersey, the latest entrant, offered to cap its tax on such subsidiaries at $200,000 a year. Michigan decided not to tax them at all, but charged a modest fee. Nevada passed a law allowing captives to be formed with as little as $200,000 in capital.
And now Aetna may not have to look outside its home state at all, as Connecticut has adopted a law allowing onshore captives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENT COMPANIES (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); REINSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (71%); DIVIDENDS (65%); JOB CREATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AETNA INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (53%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (53%)

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); SREN (SWX) (53%); GNW (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



238 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: The Unwisdom of Elites

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The past three years have been a disaster for most Western economies. The United States has mass long-term unemployment for the first time since the 1930s. Meanwhile, Europe's single currency is coming apart at the seams. How did it all go so wrong?
Well, what I've been hearing with growing frequency from members of the policy elite -- self-appointed wise men, officials, and pundits in good standing -- is the claim that it's mostly the public's fault. The idea is that we got into this mess because voters wanted something for nothing, and weak-minded politicians catered to the electorate's foolishness. 
So this seems like a good time to point out that this blame-the-public view isn't just self-serving, it's dead wrong.
The fact is that what we're experiencing right now is a top-down disaster. The policies that got us into this mess weren't responses to public demand. They were, with few exceptions, policies championed by small groups of influential people -- in many cases, the same people now lecturing the rest of us on the need to get serious. And by trying to shift the blame to the general populace, elites are ducking some much-needed reflection on their own catastrophic mistakes.
Let me focus mainly on what happened in the United States, then say a few words about Europe.
These days Americans get constant lectures about the need to reduce the budget deficit. That focus in itself represents distorted priorities, since our immediate concern should be job creation. But suppose we restrict ourselves to talking about the deficit, and ask: What happened to the budget surplus the federal government had in 2000?
The answer is, three main things. First, there were the Bush tax cuts, which added roughly $2 trillion to the national debt over the last decade. Second, there were the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which added an additional $1.1 trillion or so. And third was the Great Recession, which led both to a collapse in revenue and to a sharp rise in spending on unemployment insurance and other safety-net programs.
So who was responsible for these budget busters? It wasn't the man in the street.
President George W. Bush cut taxes in the service of his party's ideology, not in response to a groundswell of popular demand -- and the bulk of the cuts went to a small, affluent minority.
Similarly, Mr. Bush chose to invade Iraq because that was something he and his advisers wanted to do, not because Americans were clamoring for war against a regime that had nothing to do with 9/11. In fact, it took a highly deceptive sales campaign to get Americans to support the invasion, and even so, voters were never as solidly behind the war as America's political and pundit elite.
Finally, the Great Recession was brought on by a runaway financial sector, empowered by reckless deregulation. And who was responsible for that deregulation? Powerful people in Washington with close ties to the financial industry, that's who. Let me give a particular shout-out to Alan Greenspan, who played a crucial role both in financial deregulation and in the passage of the Bush tax cuts -- and who is now, of course, among those hectoring us about the deficit.
So it was the bad judgment of the elite, not the greediness of the common man, that caused America's deficit. And much the same is true of the European crisis.
Needless to say, that's not what you hear from European policy makers. The official story in Europe these days is that governments of troubled nations catered too much to the masses, promising too much to voters while collecting too little in taxes. And that is, to be fair, a reasonably accurate story for Greece. But it's not at all what happened in Ireland and Spain, both of which had low debt and budget surpluses on the eve of the crisis.
The real story of Europe's crisis is that leaders created a single currency, the euro, without creating the institutions that were needed to cope with booms and busts within the euro zone. And the drive for a single European currency was the ultimate top-down project, an elite vision imposed on highly reluctant voters.
Does any of this matter? Why should we be concerned about the effort to shift the blame for bad policies onto the general public?
One answer is simple accountability. People who advocated budget-busting policies during the Bush years shouldn't be allowed to pass themselves off as deficit hawks; people who praised Ireland as a role model shouldn't be giving lectures on responsible government.
But the larger answer, I'd argue, is that by making up stories about our current predicament that absolve the people who put us here there, we cut off any chance to learn from the crisis. We need to place the blame where it belongs, to chasten our policy elites. Otherwise, they'll do even more damage in the years ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



239 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: The Debt Limit Negotiations: Republicans are playing chicken with the nation's credit rating and the recovery

 BODY:
Republican leaders and White House officials will meet on Tuesday to continue talks on the federal debt limit. They need to tread very carefully here.
The Republicans have long insisted on deep spending cuts -- ignoring the fact that a failure to raise the limit by August at the latest would disrupt financial markets and endanger the recovery. The administration understands the danger, but giving in to overly deep spending cuts and making unwise tax concessions would also be damaging. 
Both sides have indicated that a probable deal would impose a budget target and enforcement triggers, like automatic spending cuts, if the target was not met. A deal built on such mechanisms could keep markets calm, but they can also be a trap.
Democratic lawmakers and the White House must reject targets and triggers that rule out tax increases, because without higher taxes, the burden of cutting would fall largely on lower- and middle-income Americans. Some Republicans also have said they want the deal to include many of the spending cuts in the House-passed budget. That would be a disaster for vulnerable Americans and for the fragile recovery. Farm subsidies for rich farmers can go but not food stamps and Head Start.
Targets and triggers that do not allow for tax increases could make it even harder to reach a comprehensive deficit-reduction deal in the future. They would reinforce the Republicans' fantasy that the deficit is solely the result of spending. And once automatic spending cuts are locked into the budget process, Republicans would feel no pressure to accept a tax increase.
Any targets must also be realistic. One bipartisan Senate plan would hold spending to 20.6 percent of gross domestic product, the average over the last 40 years. That may sound reasonable, but it would mean destructive cuts because it ignores rising health costs, an aging population and other dynamics that were not issues in the past.
Negotiations on the debt limit are not the time or place to force a deficit deal. As ever, the Republicans' positions have little to do with economic reality. Really tackling the deficit will require specific, thoughtful changes centered on raising taxes and controlling health care costs, neither of which Republicans support.
It would be better if lawmakers would pass a clean debt limit increase for another year or two, and use the time to work diligently toward a true budget deal. Unfortunately, seriousness of purpose is not on the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); AGING TRENDS (63%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



240 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Favoring Immigration If Not the Immigrant

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- So deeply has the phrase ''a nation of immigrants'' seeped into the American psyche that millions of people reflexively use it while few know who coined the phrase. (It was Senator John F. Kennedy, in a 1958 book by that name.)
Susan F. Martin, a historian at Georgetown University, embraces the term even as she warns that it hides more than it reveals. Her book -- titled, yes, ''A Nation of Immigrants'' -- argues that the United States historically has favored immigration more consistently than it has immigrants.
Three competing models evolved in the original colonies, she writes, each with a different vision of what purposes newcomers would serve. Elements of each have persisted since. 
Virginia sought workers but found them in slaves.
Massachusetts sought believers but punished dissent.
Pennsylvania sought citizens, and built them from foreign stock (despite gripes from residents as cosmopolitan as Benjamin Franklin).
Each model was pro-immigration, Ms. Martin argues, but not necessarily pro-immigrant.
''They had very different ideas about what would happen after the immigrant entered the country,'' she said in an interview.
All three models have taken contemporary shape, not only in the United States but also across the globe, at a time when migration is a growing force and Ms. Martin one of its leading academic chroniclers. While her book is confined to American history, she said the armies of guest workers in Dubai reminded her of Virginia in its indentured servant phase, while the French campaign against Islamic headscarves had echoes of Salem.
Ms. Martin champions the Pennsylvania model in her book, published this year by Cambridge University Press: political unity, cultural diversity and equal rights. But almost unwittingly her book shows how improbable and precarious that model is. It is utterly foreign to much of the world, where citizens are born, not made, she said, and threatened at home by the reliance on illegal workers who lack rights.
''The Pennsylvania model is not dead, but it is under severe challenge,'' she writes.
Ms. Martin finds many to blame for this: the left (for opposing tough enforcement), the populist right (for strains of prejudice) and employers (for seeking cheap labor). ''One of my concerns about illegal immigration is that it undermines legal immigration,'' she said.
Ms. Martin said her interest in immigration comes in part from her roots. Her father arrived in the United States in 1906, fleeing the persecution of Jews in a Polish shtetl called Milejcsicz. Ms. Martin visited there as a college student and discovered that all the Jews who stayed behind had died in the Holocaust.
She trained as a colonial historian at the University of Pennsylvania and acquired policy credentials as a staff member of two high-level government commissions on immigration policy. For her first assignment she read the mail and found that all the major complaints -- immigrants bring crime and disease, they refuse to learn English -- were prominent in earlier debates.
''There's a tendency to say that our ancestors were the good immigrants, but there are problems with the contemporary ones,'' she said.
Ms. Martin's mentor, Lawrence H. Fuchs, first identified the colonial archetypes in his 1990 book, ''The American Kaleidoscope: Race, Ethnicity and the Civic Culture.'' But he saw the Pennsylvania model as historically dominant and politically secure. Ms. Martin (who has dedicated her book to him) sees a constant battle among the three models, and peril in the present.
The Virginia model began with commercial motivations: Jamestown settlers sought plantations on the river, not cities on the hill. When the colony could not attract enough indentured servants to export tobacco, it imported slaves. Though chattel slavery has disappeared, Ms. Martin emphasizes that the exploitation of immigrant labor has not.
''The high levels of tolerance for unauthorized migration represents a return to the Virginia model of disposable workers with few rights,'' she writes.
In Massachusetts the Puritans came to affirm their faith. Compatriots were welcomed but expected to believe, and dissidents like Roger Williams were banished. Ms. Martin finds the fear of alien views reappearing in episodes as old as the Alien and Sedition Acts and as recent as post-9/11 laws that increase the government's power to detain foreigners. ''The problem with Massachusetts isn't those it includes but those it excludes and the basis on which it excludes them,'' she said.
William Penn arrived in the colonies six decades later, after being jailed in England for his Quaker beliefs. Like the Virginians he too wanted to make money -- in his case by selling land -- but sought out buyers far and wide, with translations of his pamphlets reaching the Rhine. Pluralism was part of his faith and part of his business plan.
That is not to imply that harmony always reigned. A second tradition that traces back to Pennsylvania is the fear that non-English speaking immigrants will fail to assimilate. The ''most ignorant Stupid sort,'' Franklin called the Germans, upset at bilingual street signs.
Historians may quibble that Ms. Martin's model exaggerates the differences between colonies: Puritans sought profit too, and Virginians prayed. She readily acknowledges the overlaps. ''There are elements of each model in each colony,'' she said.
In contemporary debate her views can be hard to categorize. She is less worried about how many immigrants come than about what rights they have. Like most in the high-immigration camp she favors a legalization plan for illegal immigrants, which opponents say will encourage more people to come. But like most in the low-immigration camp she is skeptical about guest worker plans, at home or abroad, seeing a slippery slope to exploitation.
Certainly such programs have been abused. But millions of poor people across the globe find them preferable to poverty at home. Would Ms. Martin stand in those people's way?
Tamar Jacoby, the president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a business group that supports guest worker programs, argues that Ms. Martin's resistance to temporary visas would suppress immigration to the detriment of immigrants and the economy alike. ''Not all labor market migration is exploitative,'' she wrote in a recent issue of The New Republic.
Ms. Martin, who directs Georgetown's Institute for the Study of International Migration, calls that criticism a ''fair avenue for debate.'' But she said she had traveled widely in Europe, where the descendants of 1960s guest workers have formed an alienated underclass. European colleagues often ask her how the United States has remained a ''nation of immigrants and not just a collection of them.''
Imagine the curious looks she gets when she starts talking about William Penn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan F. Martin has written a book about immigration models. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Varied Welcomes: Susan F. Martin, a historian at Georgetown University, describes three competing visions of immigration based on life in the original colonies.
VIRGINIA MODEL: Detail from ''Introduction of Slavery,'' probably set in Jamestown, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEAN COLLECTION/ARCHIVE PHOTOS, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
MASSACHUSETTS MODEL: Painting by Charles Lucy shows pilgrims and the Mayflower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEAN COLLECTION/GETTY IMAGES)
 PENNSYLVANIA MODEL: Depiction of William Penn's first visit to America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIME LIFE PICTURES/MANSELL, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); HISTORY (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); HOLOCAUST (62%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

TITLE: Nation of Immigrants, A (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



241 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
Beijing Blames Foreigners For Its Fears of Unrest
Chinese and American officials are set to hold a meeting in Washington known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue. That meeting seems more removed from events within China than at any time in recent years. In the past three months, foreign groups in China have been subjected to intense scrutiny from the authorities, reflecting growing fears here about the influence of foreigners and Western liberal ideas.
PAGE A6 
NATIONAL
Rwanda's Tragedy Echoes In a Kansas Courtroom
In a federal court in Wichita, Kan., jurors will hear a detailed account over the next two months of how the 1994 genocide in Rwanda was carried out in a single village in the mountainous African country. The man at the center of the case is not charged with genocide, but with lying to immigration officials about his involvement to obtain American citizenship in 2006. PAGE A15
Obama's Tricky Polling Bump A15
New York
BUFFALO PINS REVIVAL HOPES ON UNIVERSITY EXPANSION
Buffalo, a struggling emblem of the Rust Belt, is trying a new approach at revitalization: recasting itself as a college town. A $5 billion expansion plan has captivated business leaders and local politicians. But cash-short state officials in Albany have not been keen on what would amount to the SUNY system's biggest expansion since its creation six decades ago. PAGE A18
Business
LAWSUIT OPENS A WINDOW
INTO GOOGLE'S TACTICS
A stack of internal e-mail messages from Google, which a Massachusetts state court made public last week, provide a glimpse into the competitive tactics and decision-making inside a business that is crucial to the company's growth -- its Android software for smartphones. PAGE B1
SCRIPTED SHOWS ON CABLE
Top-tier cable channels like USA and TBS have been creating dramas and sitcoms for more than a decade, but now relative small fry like VH1 and the Independent Film Channel are doing the same. Their aim is diversification. PAGE B1
Arts
FAVORING IMMIGRATION,
IF NOT THE IMMIGRANT
In her new book, ''A Nation of Immigrants,'' Susan F. Martin, a historian at Georgetown University, argues that the United States historically has favored immigration more consistently than it has immigrants. PAGE C1
AN EDITOR CALLS IT QUITS
Robert Loomis began working at Random House 54 years ago, and holds a revered place in the publishing industry as an editor known for nurturing writers including Maya Angelou, William Styron, Shelby Foote and Calvin Trillin. Many saw the announcement that he would be retiring as the end of the editor-driven model of publishing. PAGE C1
Sports
AN UNCOMFORTABLE FIRST
FOR U.S. TENNIS
In the nearly 40 years since the inception of computer rankings, Monday will mark the first time that no man or woman from the United States is ranked in the top 10 in the world in singles. PAGE D1
N.F.L. MULLS TESTING RULES
The N.F.L. has talked to the World Anti-Doping Agency about overseeing testing of players for performance-enhancing drugs if a federal appeals court forces the league to stop the lockout and put in place rules for operating the league this season, an N.F.L. official briefed on its planning said. PAGE D2
Obituaries
HAROLD GARFINKEL, 93
He was an innovative sociologist who turned the study of common sense into a dense and arcane discipline, creating one of his field's most challenging and fruitful branches of inquiry. PAGE A21
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A23
Ross Douthat PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RANKINGS (88%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); HISTORY (72%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); JURY TRIALS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (69%); GENOCIDE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); WRITERS (65%); PUBLISHING (65%); SMARTPHONES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (62%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (82%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); RWANDA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



242 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include import prices for April and wholesale trade inventories for March (Tuesday); the trade deficit for March (Wednesday); the Producer Price Index for April, retail sales for April, weekly jobless claims and business inventories for March (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for April and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for May (Friday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting results include Tyson Foods (Monday); Walt Disney (Tuesday); Macy's and Cisco Systems (Wednesday); and Kohl's and Nordstrom (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The third meeting of the United States-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue will take place in Washington, with a Chinese delegation meeting with American officials, including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton (Monday and Tuesday). The Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing on the final report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission (Tuesday). A House Financial Services subcommittee will hold a hearing about the relationship between the Federal Reserve and government debt, and later in the day the subcommittee will conduct a hearing about legislative proposals to address the consequences of the Dodd-Frank whistle-blower provisions (Wednesday). And a Senate Banking subcommittee will hold a hearing on the need for national mortgage servicing standards (Thursday).
IN EUROPE Officials with the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund are to visit Greece for a review of the country's progress on economic reforms (Monday and Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (66%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); TYSON FOODS INC (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GREECE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



243 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Blames Foreigners for Its Fears of Unrest

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and JONATHAN ANSFIELD; Mia Li contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Chinese and American officials are polishing off scripts for a ritual that is set to unfold in Washington on Monday and Tuesday. During a meeting known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, they will smile across conference tables and talk about cooperating on a range of issues: trade, currency, North Korea.
But that kind of theater seems more removed from events within China than at any time in recent years. In the past three months, some significant foreign groups have been subjected to intensifying pressure from the authorities, reflecting growing fears here about the influence of foreigners and Western liberal ideas. 
Good will between the United States and China is scarce. At the meetings this week, the Americans are expected to talk bluntly about human rights, while the Chinese government has already increased its criticism of the West, with some officials telling foreign diplomats that they believe the United States is fomenting revolution.
At least 60 activities organized by the United States Embassy in Beijing -- including cultural forums, school programs, ambassadorial visits -- were canceled between February and April because of interference by the Chinese authorities, and some European missions have been similarly pressured. Several university conferences involving foreigners have been canceled, and the Ministry of Education is stepping up warnings to Chinese scholars heading abroad that they not take part in ''anti-China'' activities or engage with groups that promote democracy.
The scrutiny has applied to some nonprofit groups, too, with several -- particularly those that receive financing from the United States government or the European Union -- being visited more frequently by tax officials.
At the same time, China has waged its harshest crackdown on liberal speech in years: hundreds of Chinese have been detained, imprisoned, beaten, interrogated or put under house arrest.
The government had for years guarded against Western influences, including blocking sites like Twitter and Facebook, but those restrictions have intensified since revolts began sweeping the Middle East and North Africa.
The clampdown is concentrated on foreign groups or activities that have significant ties to foreign governments, run prominent outreach programs, encourage free speech or promote Internet freedom.
Senior Chinese officials appear to believe that the United States in particular helped set off and sustain the uprisings that toppled dictators in the Arab world. In mid-February, messages appeared on the Chinese Internet calling for people to hold similar protests across the nation. Some of the people spreading word of the so-called Jasmine Revolution are Chinese who live overseas.
One message called for Chinese to protest on Feb. 20 at a McDonald's outlet on Wangfujing, a popular shopping street in Beijing, and the government became concerned when Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who was then the American ambassador to China, appeared that afternoon outside the restaurant.
Embassy officials said Mr. Huntsman, who left his job at the end of April, was not aware of the calls for a protest, but the Chinese government quickly began canceling outreach activities sponsored by the American Embassy. That included one-time appearances by Mr. Huntsman in Chinese cities and regularly scheduled education programs in which American officials meet with Chinese students, according to interviews with foreigners and Chinese.
''We have expressed our objections to these measures to senior Chinese officials on multiple occasions,'' said Richard Buangan, an embassy spokesman.
Although some embassy programs have resumed, few people here expect the government's attitude to thaw anytime soon.
''I think this is a new normal,'' said Sara Davis, executive director of Asia Catalyst, a nonprofit group in New York that works with about a dozen grassroots Chinese organizations on issues concerning H.I.V. and AIDS. ''I don't think China has any reason to loosen restrictions. They geared up for a trial run and didn't get any pushback.''
''They're casting a broader net,'' she added, ''and targeting anyone willing to speak their minds.''
Ms. Davis said her group had not experienced difficulties because its Chinese partners worked quietly. But other foreign nonprofit groups and their employees say they are under a microscope, in an acceleration of a trend that took shape last year.
A Chinese worker for one group was recently interviewed by state security officers and told that officials were carefully assessing the effects of foreign nonprofit organizations in China, according to a foreigner who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the situation.
The Beijing office of one American nonprofit group was visited three times in three weeks by officials from local tax and commerce bureaus, after having been paid just one such call in the previous eight months, a representative of the group said. The officials characterized the inquiries as routine, but the timing and lines of questioning left little doubt that the visits were linked to the calls for a Jasmine Revolution. Tax and commerce officers asked the representative for details about the group's source of financing as well as its activities, partners and means of promoting itself.
Other American groups have faced a similar increase in scrutiny, the representative said, particularly those that receive money from the State Department. One group had been forced to account for virtually every project it financed, he said. Groups that received money from the E.U. also faced new bureaucratic hassles, he said.
Meanwhile, several conferences involving foreigners have been canceled in recent weeks. One theory is that the cancellations were related to new rules posted on a central government Web site on Feb. 14 that were ostensibly aimed at controlling government expenses. But the rules impose severe restrictions on foreign participation: such meetings cannot exceed 100 people, international conferences must be approved by both provincial and central officials, and no ''important'' foreign guests can be invited without permission.
''The cynic in me believes that, given the likely timing of this decision and of the onset of the Egyptian protests, this is not really about money or the value of international conferences, but about minimizing extended face-to-face dialogues with foreigners who might share ideas that were 'bu shufu,' '' said one American involved in cultural events, using the Chinese phrase for ''discomforting.''
Foreign journalists have also faced unusually direct harassment from security officials. Starting in late February, scores of journalists were warned about their coverage and visited at their homes.
In meetings in February and March with one American journalist, security officers tried to make the case that American officials, together with foreign journalists and others with ties overseas, were conspiring to stir up chaos in China. They talked about the appearance of Mr. Huntsman at the McDonald's on Feb. 20, and they mentioned a meeting that he held with foreign journalists at the embassy on March 10, citing them as proof of the United States' hand in fanning the flames of revolution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A police officer in Shanghai tried to stop photographers from documenting an arrest on Feb. 27. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); HOUSE ARREST (63%); SOCIAL MEDIA (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



244 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Microsoft, Redmond, Wash., shifted two large creative assignments from JWT, New York, part of WPP. The assignment to create campaigns for Microsoft Office was moved to Deutsch, New York, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Deutsch already creates campaigns for the Microsoft cloud-computing account. JWT is also losing the assignment to create campaigns for the Bing search engine, which JWT introduced in 2009; Microsoft did not identify a replacement. JWT keeps creative assignments for Windows 7 in Brazil and China.
The Glaceau division of the Coca-Cola Company named Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners, to create a campaign for Vitaminwater, which carries the theme ''You're up.'' Coca-Cola already works with Crispin Porter on brands like Coke Zero. Ammirati, New York, continues to work on projects for Vitaminwater. 
People
Doug Sweeny joined Y&R West as president, based in San Francisco, overseeing operations of offices there and in Irvine, Calif. He succeeds John Berg, who left in March. Mr. Sweeny had been vice president for global brand marketing at Levi Strauss & Company, San Francisco, where he oversaw advertising like the worldwide ''Go forth'' campaign for Levi's 501 jeans. Mr. Sweeny will be teamed with Joe Kayser, chief creative officer at Y&R West; the two previously worked together as partners at the San Francisco office of TBWA/Chiat/Day. Y&R West is part of the Y&R North America unit of Y&R, a division of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP.
Guillermo Vega joined the new Sao Paulo office of Wieden & Kennedy as executive creative director and will be part of the executive management team. He had been regional creative director for Latin America at Y&R, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP.
Michael Finn joined BrightLine, New York, as president, a new post. He had been vice president for media sales at the Dish Network Corporation.
Sasha Savic, chief commercial officer at Havas Media North America, was promoted to chief operating officer, a new post. The unit is part of the Havas Media division of Havas.
John Heenan joined Luckie & Company, Birmingham, Ala., as chief marketing officer, a new post. He had been chief marketing officer at RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md.
Paul Jowdy joined Every Day With Rachael Ray magazine, New York, part of the Reader's Digest Association, as publisher, succeeding Anne Balaban, who left. Eva Dillon, a former top executive at the Reader's Digest Association, had been temporarily handling the duties of the post while a successor to Ms. Balaban was being sought. Mr. Jowdy had been vice president and publisher of Details magazine, New York, part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications, a post he was named to in January after serving as vice president and publisher of another Conde Nast magazine, Bon Appetit. A successor is being sought for Mr. Jowdy at Details.
Miscellany
Blue Barracuda, London, a digital agency, was acquired by DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Financial terms were not disclosed. Blue Barracuda and its 60 employees will be absorbed by the DraftFCB London office, which will be renamed DraftFCB London, Fueled by Blue Barracuda. Martin Talks, chief executive of Blue Barracuda, will become president for digital at DraftFCB London.
Heat, San Francisco, added a social media marketing practice, to be led by Cory O'Brien as social media strategist and the director of the division. Mr. O'Brien had been an account manager at Swirl, San Francisco. The division will have five employees and its initial client will be Bank of the West.
WPP, Dublin, and IMG Worldwide, New York, signed a multiyear agreement to form a joint team that will offer licensing and merchandising services for consumer products. The venture is separate from the existing IMG Licensing operations.
A decision by ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company, to withdraw from its prime-time schedule a new series, ''Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution,'' affected a cross-promotion with Better Homes and Gardens magazine, published by the Meredith Corporation. The episode scheduled for Tuesday was to have featured Eric Liskey, deputy garden editor of the magazine, which included an article about his appearance in the April issue. But the episode, and others that ABC planned to show on Tuesday nights in May, were shifted to Friday nights in June. The decision came after the first two episodes of ''Food Revolution'' drew low ratings.
Addiction New York, part of Addiction Worldwide, was selected to create a new brand positioning and visual identity for A&E Television Networks, now known as A&E Networks. The work includes a new theme, ''Life is entertaining,'' and a new logo. A&E Networks, which includes cable channels like A&E, History and Lifetime, is owned by the Walt Disney Company, the Hearst Corporation and the NBCUniversal division of the Comcast Corporation.
Prospects for growth in worldwide advertising spending have improved, according to the Warc consensus forecast of leading predictions on the subject. The current consensus is for growth this year of 5.1 percent compared with 2010, an increase from the most recent consensus figure, published in November, that predicted an increase of 4.5 percent. The current consensus for 2012, Warc reported, is for growth in worldwide ad spending of 6.2 percent compared with 2011.
The Media Network, Silver Spring, Md., was renamed TMNcorp.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (83%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); BRANDING (73%); CLOUD COMPUTING (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%)

COMPANY: JWT (94%); WPP PLC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (91%); HAVAS SA (85%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (83%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (82%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (71%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (66%); DISH NETWORK CORP (63%); READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (62%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); HAV (PAR) (85%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (83%); DISH (NASDAQ) (63%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: RACHAEL RAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



245 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: In Buffalo, Visions, or Perhaps Illusions, of a University-Fueled Revival

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- This city has lost more than one-tenth of its residents in the last decade, and it shows.
Entire neighborhoods are all but abandoned. Stretches of boarded-up bungalows with peeling paint and sagging roofs are interrupted only by grassy lots where decrepit houses have been demolished by the city.
And the highest-profile urban renewal effort in recent years -- a proposed Bass Pro Shops outdoors superstore that would have anchored a revitalization of the historic waterfront where millions of bushels of grain once began their trip down the Erie Canal -- has produced nothing but a muddy crater the size of a city block. 
Now, Buffalo, a struggling emblem of the Rust Belt, is trying a new approach: recasting itself as a college town.
Where a drab low-income housing project now sits, leaders of the University at Buffalo, part of the State University of New York system, envision glass-and-steel biomedical buildings. They propose hiring hundreds of new professors and thousands of staff members. They imagine young researchers living in restored lofts, dining at street-side bistros and walking to work.
The $5 billion expansion plan, given the name UB 2020, has captivated business leaders and local politicians, who dream of a new economic base.
But cash-short state officials in Albany have not been keen on what would amount to the SUNY system's biggest expansion since its creation six decades ago. Skeptics see the plan as a fantasy that, at best, would enrich wealthy developers while making the university too expensive for poor students. A version of UB 2020 failed to win approval in the Legislature last year, and two state senators from the Buffalo area lost re-election bids last year partly as a consequence.
Yet there is no denying that the hope -- that Buffalo could someday be a New York version of Berkeley, Calif. -- is a tantalizing one.
''For the community, it means economic development,'' said Satish K. Tripathi, the University at Buffalo's president, who took office last month after nearly seven years as provost. ''For the students, it means a better education here. For the construction industry, it means really a lot more jobs.''
This is a place that could use a lift. Propelled by its grain mills and the growth of the railroad, Buffalo stood in 1900 as the country's eighth-largest city. It is now the 70th, and nearly 30 percent of its 261,000 residents are in poverty.
The UB 2020 proposal would move the university's medical school from the outskirts of the city to downtown, near Buffalo General Hospital and the Roswell Park Cancer Institute. Eventually, the university would move its dental, nursing, pharmacy and public health schools downtown, too, and spend hundreds of millions for construction on its other two campuses.
Officials with the university say the expansion would more than double its yearly regional economic impact, which they put at more than $1.7 billion. Business leaders describe it as the top economic development priority for all of western New York.
To help pay for the expansion, the university proposes raising tuition and entering into public-private partnerships, like developing state-owned land for commercial uses. Both proposals would require approval from the Legislature.
But Democrats in the State Assembly have been deeply skeptical. Many question whether allowing the University at Buffalo to charge higher tuition than other SUNY campuses would put it out of reach for poor students. Others worry that the university wants to be a real estate developer more than a university -- or wiggle free from oversight by the SUNY system and the Legislature.
''We think we have a role,'' said Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat and chairwoman of the higher education committee. ''And their response is, 'We want to do what we want to do.' ''
Western New York lawmakers sought to include UB 2020 in the state budget this year but were rebuffed. And although Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has said he supports UB 2020 and has promised to hold a summit meeting in the coming weeks to discuss the proposal, he has also suggested concerns about its scale.
''I don't think anyone would ever say to the State of New York, 'We want a $5 billion economic development grant,' '' Mr. Cuomo told reporters last week, flashing a look of incredulity. ''Five billion dollars is like all the money in the world. Twice.''
This year, in apparent recognition of lawmakers' doubts about the proposal, Buffalo officials are sounding far less ambitious.
The original UB 2020 proposal called for adding 10,000 students to the university's enrollment of 29,000; in an interview last week, Dr. Tripathi said he no longer planned to pursue an expansion of the student body, at least at the moment. ''The goal hasn't changed,'' he said. ''The reality has changed, in terms of funding.''
And he emphasized that the university was content pursuing expansion in phases. Its first projects would be paid for in part through Buffalo's share of $140 million that Mr. Cuomo set aside last week for construction at the four SUNY research campuses.
But in Buffalo, there is no shortage of enthusiasm about the university plan. ''You can walk downtown on Saturday or Sunday, and there's nothing -- no one, nothing,'' said James Purcell, 67, a retired schoolteacher, as he sipped a bowl of chicken chipotle soup with rice at Ulrich's, the city's oldest tavern. ''It's like a ghost town.''
A block away, university officials promise that could change. Robert G. Shibley, the dean of Buffalo's architecture school, stood in a sleek conference room in a restored garment factory that now houses university offices, peered out one of the big steel sash windows, and looked at the site where the medical school would be built. ''It would take 'Boy, it's dead,' '' he said, ''to 24-7 and alive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Satish K. Tripathi, University at Buffalo president. Left, Robert G. Shibley, the architecture school's dean, is a proponent of expansion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); POLITICS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); CANCER (67%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%)

COMPANY: BASS PRO SHOPS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (57%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



246 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Now to Sell Advertisers On Tablets

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
If you wanted to get your message in front of a reader of The New Yorker, it would cost you $141,174 for a full-page ad in the magazine's glossy pages.
What would it be worth to reach the same reader if he or she were on an iPad? More, less or the same?
That is the one very pertinent question after an active week in magazine publishers' fitful effort to be part of, rather than run over by, the digital revolution. Hearst Magazines struck a deal to sell three of its magazines -- Esquire, Popular Mechanics and O, the Oprah Magazine -- for the iPad, using Apple's subscription model, beginning in July. Hearst is the first major publisher to agree to sell multiple magazines in the app store. 
The Hearst announcement comes on the heels of word that Time Inc. negotiated an agreement with Apple in which subscribers to Sports Illustrated, Time and Fortune would be able to read their magazines on the iPad free as long as they verified their identity. (Both deals were first reported in The Wall Street Journal.) And there are indications that Conde Nast, the third part of the triumvirate, will actually be the first to market among major publishers with iPad subscriptions to some of its bigger magazines.
The deals represent a significant thaw between the technologists in Cupertino, Calif., and the mandarins of Manhattan publishing. According to the publisher in each of those discussions, Apple, which has a reputation for setting unilateral terms, demonstrated some degree of flexibility around pricing, terms and custody of data.
And that incremental progress is on top of a decision in March from the Audit Bureau of Circulations that each of those digital subscriptions will count toward the all-important rate base -- the number of copies used to sell advertising -- even if the electronic version is not precisely identical to the print edition.
Anybody in publishing will tell you that the prices they can charge advertisers for print (and now tablet) subscribers are far above the commodity pricing that rules on Web-based content. As more and more magazines end up in people's laps, backlighted and without a mailing label, it's a huge win for magazines, right?
Not so fast, said Robin Steinberg of MediaVest, an ad buyer who represents giants like Kraft and Wal-Mart. Ms. Steinberg sent a pre-emptive letter to publishers on April 29 suggesting that she and her clients would not simply go along with the assumption that a digital subscriber should count the same as a paper one.
Although she is on the Audit Bureau board and voted in favor of the changes, Ms. Steinberg made it clear that she wanted her clients to have the flexibility to opt in and out of digital editions. In a tart reminder that these are the early days of the process, she wrote that for media buyers, it was ''critical that we determine how copies are qualified and counted when served either traditionally or digitally.''
In other words, if her clients want to buy apples, they will buy apples (print subscribers) and if they are in the mood for oranges (digital subscribers) they expect to make a separate and presumably lower-cost purchase. And she stressed that buyers were keeping a close eye on digital subscriptions to make sure that they did not become the electronic equivalent of a New Jersey landfill, a place where unwanted copies were dumped to make the numbers look good.
Ms. Steinberg's letter was a signal that the Audit Bureau ruling was the beginning of that negotiation, not the end, and publishers had best be transparent about their circulation figures.
''Publishers are most comfortable with traditional metrics because their business models have been structured around these data points for years,'' she said. ''There is an increasing need to evolve and reinvent archaic practices into modern approaches, delivering and reporting audience- and engagement-based measurement.''
She also suggested that simply replicating the existing print ads and editorial experience in pixels represented a failure of imagination and adaptation. ''Delivering the right creative experience is key. Consumers demand and expect something very different from these devices,'' she added
For their part, publishers are pleased by the decision from the Audit Bureau and are happy to share numbers to make buyers comfortable. That is, as soon as those numbers come in from a business in its infancy.
''We all want to be transparent with our advertising partners but our systems must be in place and tested to ensure we are telling the right story,'' said Robert A. Sauerberg Jr., president of Conde Nast, adding, ''We will have more information soon, and we feel really good about the emerging picture.''
Getting the kind of data that will satisfy skeptical buyers like Ms. Steinberg will be no small thing. Apple, the clear leader in tablet publishing, has been and will continue to be hesitant about sharing consumer behavior on its device. And no one knows enough about the habits of app readers to say conclusively how engaged they are while browsing through a digital magazine.
Now that tablets are a genuine revolution and not just a notion, publishers are beginning to entertain hopes that digital readers will be a sturdy enough platform to build a future with. But there has to be good economics in addition to abundant eyeballs. So far for traditional media companies -- newspapers come to mind here -- the Web has been a great place to find audiences and a rotten place to do business. The music industry has become a digital Dollar Store and the lucrative ad rates for television fall apart when the viewer is using a mouse instead of a remote.
Still, publishers are pretty confident that once they have some experience and competence on all kinds of platforms -- iPad, Android and the Nook (which has been a big stealth seller of magazines, especially women's magazines) -- that they will be able to show advertisers that a magazine is a magazine, even when it arrives wirelessly.
''While it's still early days on distribution models, our research has shown that reader engagement levels for digital subscriptions are terrific, with time spent reading at very high levels,'' said David Carey, president of Hearst Magazines.
It is, at bottom, all a negotiation. Publishers would like to hold onto the lucrative aspects of their current business while taking advantage of the new lower cost of operating in a circulation world that is not hostage to buying a good position on the grocery store checkout line. But while magazine delivery may increasingly become a friction-free experience, meeting the expectations of both advertisers and readers in that new world will be anything but.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (91%); HEARST CORP (85%); APPLE INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



247 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Battle Over Health Care Law Shifts to Federal Appellate Courts

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
A five-week flurry of federal appellate hearings on the constitutionality of the Obama health care law kicks off Tuesday in Richmond, Va., beginning the second round of a race to the Supreme Court among a multitude of litigants eager to strike down the president's signature domestic achievement.
At Tuesday's hearing, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit will consider a pair of contradictory rulings sent up from the lower courts. In one case, filed by Virginia's attorney general, a federal district judge in Richmond ruled late last year that Congress had exceeded its authority by requiring most Americans to obtain health insurance. In the other, filed by Liberty University, a conservative Christian institution, a district judge sitting 100 miles away in Lynchburg, Va., upheld the insurance mandate. 
If the appellate courts act quickly, the question of the health law's constitutionality could land before the Supreme Court as soon as the next term, which opens in October.
With the lower courts divided, each side hopes to build a string of victories in the midlevel Courts of Appeals.
''We want to win as many of these as we can,'' said Attorney General Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II of Virginia, a Republican. ''If we have nothing but wins all the way up to the Supreme Court, there is an element of momentum, I think, where the justices consider what has gone on before the case came to them.''
Since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act in March 2010, 31 lawsuits have been filed to challenge it, according to the Justice Department, which is defending the Obama administration. Nine are awaiting action by Courts of Appeals, and nine are pending in federal district courts. The others have been dismissed.
Three district judges appointed by Democratic presidents have upheld the law while two Republican appointees have struck down part or all of it.
On June 1, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati is scheduled to hear the appeal of a ruling in favor of the law. On June 8, the Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta will review a Florida judge's ruling that invalidated the entire act. That judge later suspended his own order until higher courts could settle the matter.
The Supreme Court recently turned down a request by Mr. Cuccinelli that it hear the case without review by the Court of Appeals.
In Tuesday's hearing, a three-judge panel will first hear arguments in the case filed by Liberty University and then in the one filed by Mr. Cuccinelli. The makeup of the randomly selected panel will not be revealed until Tuesday morning.
With the addition of four appointees by President Obama, the Fourth Circuit bench now includes seven members named by Democratic presidents and seven named by Republicans. The loser before the three-judge panel may petition for a hearing before the entire court before taking the case to the Supreme Court.
The Obama administration will be represented in each of the appellate cases by Neal K. Katyal, the acting solicitor general.
Solicitors general more typically argue for the federal government before the Supreme Court. Although it is not unprecedented for them to appear before Courts of Appeals, Mr. Katyal's assignment is seen as a nod to the significance of the case.
E. Duncan Getchell Jr., Virginia's solicitor general, will speak for the commonwealth, as he did in the district court, and Liberty University will be represented by Mathew D. Staver, the dean of its law school.
The plaintiffs in the 11th Circuit case, including Republican officials from 26 states, will be represented by Paul D. Clement, a United States solicitor general under President George W. Bush. Mr. Clement recently resigned from King & Spalding after it withdrew its support for his defense of a federal law banning recognition of same-sex marriages.
Scores of politicians, economists and interest groups have filed friend-of-the-court briefs on both sides of the health care litigation.
The Virginia and Liberty University cases bear some differences. But both challenge the insurance requirement on the ground that it cannot be supported by the commerce clause of the United States Constitution, which gives Congress broad but not unlimited authority to regulate interstate commerce. Starting in 2014, the health care law would require most Americans to obtain policies or pay an income tax penalty.
The plaintiffs complain that the government has never before forced citizens to buy a commercial product. In the lower courts, arguments have centered on whether a choice to not buy insurance constitutes the kind of economic ''activity'' that the Supreme Court has, in the past, found subject to federal regulation.
The judges are also being asked to determine whether Virginia has legal standing to challenge the law, whether the insurance requirement can be supported under Congress's authority to tax, whether it runs afoul of religious liberties, whether employers can be required to contribute to their workers' health coverage, and whether a finding against one provision of the law should invalidate the entire act.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Attorney General Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II of Virginia, left, brought one of the challenges. Neal K. Katyal will argue in support of the health law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (93%); APPEALS COURTS (92%); HEALTH CARE LAW (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); APPEALS (90%); JUDGES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); PETITIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



248 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Takes Aim At a Titan In Telecom

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- In the two decades that Carlos Slim Helu has turned a crumbling Mexican phone monopoly into a continental telecom giant, he has successfully fought off competitors and challenged authorities who wanted to limit his companies' control.
But over the last few weeks, a series of developments is threatening to chip away at Mr. Slim's dominance.
First, Mexico's antitrust agency imposed a $1 billion fine on the wireless company Telcel, the local unit of Mr. Slim's pan-Latin company America Movil. Then, at the end of last month, the Mexican congress approved a tough new antimonopoly law that raises fines for monopolistic practices and permits prison terms for executives who have been found to engage in them.
Last week, a Supreme Court ruling halted a legal maneuver that Mr. Slim's companies had used to fight lower tariffs. The decision gives new heft to the country's telecom regulator as it begins to slash the high interconnection fees that America Movil charges other companies. 
The flurry of activity after years of inaction suggests that at last Mexican authorities may be willing to challenge Mr. Slim and make good on their pledge to provide a more competitive environment for the telecommunications industry.
The actions also send a signal to other large companies in Mexico that they too may soon come under closer scrutiny. For years, powerful companies have resisted regulation by tying up rulings in the courts and using their political influence.
It is too early to tell, though, how effective the efforts will be and whether they will stick.
America Movil's Mexican units, the mobile carrier Telcel and the fixed-line firm Telmex, will continue their legal challenges, and analysts say the fine may not be paid for years, if ever. Meanwhile, Telmex now claims more than 80 percent of all fixed lines and Telcel more than 70 percent of wireless phones.
Despite the new antitrust law, Mexican lawmakers and regulators have stalled on other measures to haul telecommunications rules into the 21st century.
And as the July 2012 general election approaches, political support for tougher regulation against Mr. Slim -- widely reported to be the world's wealthiest man -- and other magnates may wane as parties jockey for support from the business elite. (Mr. Slim is the second-largest shareholder in The New York Times, behind the Sulzberger family, and in 2009 extended a $250 million loan to The Times, which the company says it intends to repay in early 2012.)
''The big companies believe that when the law is applied to them it's because of personal animosity and that the law only applies to their enemies,'' said Eduardo Perez Motta, the president of the Federal Competition Commission, which imposed the billion-dollar fine. ''They think it is a country of favors, friendships and privileges.''
Executives at Mr. Slim's companies argue that they benefit the Mexican people by reaching the country's poorer communities, while their competitors want to sell only to the rich. Indeed, in almost half of the country, Telmex is the only company with any infrastructure at all, because its concession requires it to be there.
In public appearances, Mr. Slim responds to questions about monopoly power by arguing that he has taken on powerful international competitors such as AT&T and that there are multiple players in the Mexican market. He often hands out charts showing how Mexico compares favorably to many other developing countries in mobile coverage, and argues that international studies showing that Mexico's prices are high are skewed by exchange rates. He also says that he faces a barrier because regulators refuse to grant him a pay-TV license, while cable companies now compete with him by offering phone and Internet service.
Business competition is viewed as an important issue for Mexico's economic future. Studies from the World Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development suggest that Mexico's monopolies stunt its growth. Although the economy expanded an estimated 5 percent in the first quarter, that pace still lags other large Latin American economies.
Big companies control many basic goods and services, including cement, beer, corn flour, and medicine distribution. The resulting high prices, Mr. Perez Motta argues, harden Mexico's gap between rich and poor because it forces poor families to spend more of their income on staples.
It is the fight over telecommunications, though, that has grabbed the recent attention.
In part this is because it involves Mr. Slim, 71, whose wealth has turned him into Mexico's most contradictory business personality. Forbes estimates his fortune at $74 billion, swelled by other interests in banking, infrastructure and mining.
While some Mexicans admire his acumen, others say they believe that his control over the $35 billion telecommunications market has done enormous damage to the economy.
Although prices for many services have come down over the last few years, Mexico's telecoms still rank among the more expensive of the 34 mostly developed countries in the O.E.C.D., though Mr. Slim argues against the organization's adjustment for exchange rates.
In broadband penetration, Mexico is at the bottom of the O.E.C.D. table and is falling behind countries like Brazil and Argentina.
Over the years, though, foreign telecommunications companies have mostly given up on Mexico because of the dominance of Telmex and Telcel. Last year, the government auctioned off radio spectrum in a bid to bring a new mobile competitor into the fray, and regulators tried to drum up interest from foreign investors.
''They said 'Your country doesn't interest me,' '' said Mony de Swaan, the president of the Federal Telecommunications Commission, the main regulator.
They complained about the high fees they would have to pay Telcel to complete calls placed to phones on its network and also about foreign investment limits and Mr. Slim. ''They said 'I won't compete with this gentleman,' '' Mr. de Swaan said.
Now, Mr. Slim faces a strong homegrown rival. Televisa, the dominant Mexican broadcaster and one of the largest Spanish-language media companies in the world, has been building its own telecommunications network.
Controlled by the billionaire Emilio Azcarraga, 43, Televisa already offers phone and Internet service through its cable subsidiaries. Last month, it bought 50 percent of a small cellphone company, Iusacell, for $1.6 billion.
''You need someone with deep pockets for mobile,'' said Jana Palacios Prieto, an analyst with the Mexican Competitiveness Institute. ''They are a credible threat.''
Televisa says the government still has far to go to level the playing field. ''Decisions that the government should have taken years ago are just being taken,'' said Javier Tejado Donde, Televisa's director of information, ''and they will be challenged in court. So, to say that we have reached a totally pro-competitive moment -- I see that as very far off.''
But Mr. Azcarraga and Ricardo Salinas Pliego, who controls Iusacell and who has called for further regulation, have their own history of fighting back against regulation. Between them, they operate a virtual duopoly in broadcast television, more evidence, critics say, of how dominant a handful of powerful companies are in Mexico's economy.
''What we're seeing today is the government acting to channel the monopolies, not eliminate them,'' said Ernesto Piedras, director of the Competitive Intelligence Unit, a telecom consultancy.
Since February, when Mr. Slim's companies withdrew all their television advertising, he and the broadcasters have been in open warfare. Both sides ran ad campaigns accusing each other of bilking consumers and freezing out the competition.
That brought a reaction from the authorities.
In April, Mr. Perez Motta of the Federal Competition Commission announced the fine against Telcel. The ruling argues that Telcel displaces competitors by charging them higher interconnection fees than it implicitly charges itself when it offers its customers free calls to Telcel phones.
Telcel called the commission's timing opportunistic. ''It appears that they are interfering in a dispute between carriers and taking sides in the general argument,'' said Alejandro Cantu, general counsel for America Movil. At the heart of all the disputes are the fees. Almost all Telcel's competitors say the price Telcel wants them to pay is too high. Over all, these fees cost Mexican consumers an additional $6 billion a year, according to estimates from the competition commission. Mr. de Swaan's agency has begun setting them at about 40 percent of what Telcel argues it needs to cover costs. The Supreme Court ruling requires the new lower fees to remain in place while disputes wind their way through the courts.
Mr. Cantu said Telcel still planned to contest the new fees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officials are beginning to challenge Carlos Slim's telecommunications empire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); MONOPOLIZATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); LITIGATION (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (92%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (53%)

TICKER: AMX (NYSE) (92%); AMX (BMV) (92%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (92%); PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%)

PERSON: CARLOS SLIM HELU (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



249 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Contrite Cisco Regroups Before Skeptical Wall St.

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- John T. Chambers, one of the best salesmen in Silicon Valley, has been having trouble selling anyone on his company's future.
Cisco Systems, where he is chief executive, is in a slump. The management system he put in place slowed decision-making and innovation. The company's growth has slowed and its profits are falling.
His latest sales pitch is that he can revive Cisco -- a technology colossus that makes computer networking equipment -- by pruning its sprawling business and refocusing on its strengths.
But investors, Wall Street analysts and customers are a little bit skeptical of Mr. Chambers's promises. No major improvement in Cisco's finances is expected when it reports third quarter earnings on Wednesday. Given Cisco's size, the scope of the overhaul and the increasing competition that is eroding the company's market share, a turnaround could take time. 
Last week, Cisco said it would reduce bureaucracy by eliminating a crazy-quilt management structure that had executives responsible for geographic regions as well as serving on ''councils'' that were supposed to encourage cooperation between the different groups. Instead, it slowed decision-making.
Last month, Mr. Chambers, who declined to be interviewed for this article, took his first step to fix Cisco by suddenly shutting down its Flip video camera business. Only two years earlier, Cisco had acquired Flip's parent company for $590 million to expand its nascent consumer products division. The camera was popular and, indeed, the company was days away from release of the latest version of the video camera.
''This isn't simply a midcourse correction,'' said Jeffrey Kvaal, an analyst with Barclays Capital. ''They're facing challenges that are multi-year.''
The doubt in Mr. Chambers's sales pitch began last year when Cisco's sales started to show weakness that Mr. Chambers initially attributed to the sour economy. When profits continued to wither quarter after quarter, Mr. Chambers alternately blamed a decline in government spending and a ''transition'' after the introduction of new switches for computer networks.
In the last 12 months, its shares have fallen 31 percent as the Nasdaq index gained 22 percent. While Cisco's shares fell, those of its rivals like Juniper Networks rose 35 percent. Alcatel-Lucent's shares doubled.
In April, in a memo to employees, Mr. Chambers acknowledged systematic problems at Cisco. He blamed slow decision-making and a lack of accountability. ''We have disappointed our investors and we have confused our employees,'' Mr. Chambers wrote. ''Bottom line, we have lost some of the credibility that is foundational to Cisco's success -- and we must earn it back.''
The contrition is unusual for Mr. Chambers, who is known for his unwavering optimism during his 16 years leading Cisco. He has paused his cheerleading only once before -- during the dot-com crash more than a decade ago, when Cisco was unprepared for customers sharply cutting back orders. Cisco had been one of the hottest companies of the Internet boom of the 1990s with a high-flying stock to match. Much of the blame for its shortcomings fell on Mr. Chambers, much as it does today.
The last few years should have been golden for Cisco. Telecommunications companies worldwide were rapidly expanding their infrastructure to accommodate growing traffic from online streaming and mobile phones.
But Cisco failed to keep pace with changes in the network switching and routing equipment, which accounts for nearly half its revenue. The industry has shifted from more standardized technology -- a landscape in which Cisco thrived -- to specialized equipment for various niche markets.
For example, Cisco's market share in edge routers, used by Internet providers to route traffic near the edges of their networks, dropped 11 percentage points over three years to 42.2 percent in 2010, according to the Dell'Oro Group, a market research firm.
''They've been lagging,'' said Shin Umeda, an analyst with the Dell'Oro Group. ''As a result, the competitors have been able to move in.''
Rivals like Alcatel-Lucent and Juniper Networks grabbed market share from Cisco in edge routers. Meanwhile upstarts like F5, based in Seattle, have chipped away at Cisco in other specialized markets like the equipment for controlling the load on Web servers in data centers.
Analysts said Cisco stumbled because Mr. Chambers distracted the company by trying to push into new businesses like videoconferencing, smart meters for monitoring electricity use, television set-top boxes, video screens for stadiums and even a tablet computer for businesses. These initiatives, called ''adjacencies'' within the company, were supposed to be the foundation of future growth.
Some of them have gained momentum, like Cisco's corporate voice-over-Internet telephone systems and WebEx, the business videoconferencing service it acquired four years ago. But others, like the consumer products and digital signs, failed to catch on or are so far afield from the company's main focus that analysts say Cisco is better off without them.
In addition to cutting Flip, Cisco folded its Umi home videoconferencing into its business-oriented unit. Eos, a service for media and entertainment companies to manage online content, will most likely be discontinued as a stand-alone product or sold. So far, Cisco has cut 550 jobs, but it has also offered voluntary buyouts to some of its employees in the United States and Canada.
Despite Cisco's troubles, the company remains a powerful force with $40 billion in annual revenue and nearly 73,000 employees.
Still, more reorganization at Cisco is expected. The Linksys unit, which sells routers for home networking, is among the most likely targets because of its lower profit margins, analysts said. Cisco is expected to pay closer attention to its main router and switching businesses.
In his memo, Mr. Chambers largely signaled as much by saying that Cisco will ''compete to win in the core.''
He added that the company's breadth of products gave it a big advantage.
However, achieving the long-term goals of up to 17 percent annual revenue growth is no easy feat for a company so big. Indeed, Mr. Kvaal, the Barclays analyst, said that he would be happy if Cisco simply shored up its business and kept up with the networking industry's growth.
Sales of switches are expected to be flat this year, but grow 6 percent the following three years, according to the Dell'Oro Group. Router sales are supposed to grow 9 percent annually over that period.
''Cisco doesn't have to be a market-share gainer, they just have to hold onto the share they have,'' Mr. Kvaal said. ''They have taken the first step, but it's not the only step.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Chambers, chief executive of Cisco Systems, said last month that the company needed to earn back investors' trust. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (77%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (62%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (51%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); ALU (PAR) (62%); ALU (NYSE) (62%); ALU (BIT) (62%); JNPR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (89%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



250 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Obama Can't Depend On New Poll Numbers

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Politically speaking, President Obama walks taller now that American commandos, on his order, found and killed Osama bin Laden.
So what difference does that make?
The short answer, Obama advisers and outside analysts in both parties say, is that it makes some difference, but not a dramatic one. In distinct if subtle ways, it alters calculations by the White House and its partisan adversaries concerning his foreign policy goals, domestic agenda and prospects for re-election.
''You have to take the security, personal and economic things in different buckets,'' said John Podesta, who managed Mr. Obama's transition to the White House and served as chief of staff for President Bill Clinton. 
Last week's raid plainly strengthens Mr. Obama's ability to fulfill his commitment to begin withdrawing troops by July from Afghanistan, where President George W. Bush went to war in the name of destroying Bin Laden's terrorism network. Republicans' ability to challenge the winding down of that increasingly unpopular conflict has diminished.
There is no comparable domestic policy effect. On the biggest issue dividing the parties - how to close budget deficits - even a strengthened president cannot compel ways to resolve deep substantive and political differences on taxes and spending. Nor has Mr. Obama assured himself of a second term. That will likely depend on voters' assessment of his handling of the economy.
Yet his enhanced stature may nevertheless ripple through domestic debates. His rising approval numbers certainly raise the cost of Republican resistance to his priorities.
''The stronger he is,'' Mr. Podesta concluded, ''the more likely they are to find something to agree with him on.''
Higher and Lower
Recent history suggests two truths about the ''political capital'' that presidents reap from triumphs or unexpected events. The capital dissipates, sometimes rapidly, and it has limited uses.
After the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson entered the Oval Office on a wave of popular support. His Gallup Poll approval rating remained above 70 percent through his landslide 1964 election over the Republican nominee, Barry Goldwater, whom he cast as a right-wing extremist.
Johnson capitalized on his standing, and on intra-Republican divisions, to muscle his Great Society agenda through Congress. But social upheaval and the Vietnam War drained his support and forced him to abandon his 1968 re-election campaign.
The first President George Bush soared beyond 80 percent approval after the 1991 gulf war. But he had few major domestic ambitions, and Mr. Clinton defeated him a year later by arguing that Mr. Bush had ignored the economy.
After 9/11, President George W. Bush set Gallup's all-time record with 90 percent approval. Support for his response to the attacks helped him move past the bitterness of the 2000 election, secure authorization of the Iraq war from Congress, pass the Patriot Act and win a second term.
Yet Mr. Bush could not persuade a Republican-controlled Congress to advance his partial privatization plan for Social Security. By April 2008, battered by troubles from the economy, Iraq and Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Bush set a Gallup record for presidential disapproval - 69 percent.
The lesson for Mr. Obama: ''It doesn't necessarily follow that there is political capital for other issues'' unrelated to the fight against Al Qaeda, said the presidential scholar Charles O. Jones.
And Now to Business
So far, Mr. Obama's boost has been modest. On May 1, before news of Bin Laden's death, Gallup's daily tracking poll pegged his approval at 46 percent; on Sunday, it was 51 percent.
Yet Mr. Obama has solidified his credentials as commander in chief in a way that eluded his most recent Democratic predecessors and has undercut broader attacks on his leadership before 2012.
''There's now a new story line: he's determined, disciplined, decisive and effective,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''He's got a much stronger hand'' for controlling the pace of American withdrawal from Afghanistan.
But attention will soon shift from the daring commando raid to the partisan fight over reducing the deficit and raising the federal debt limit. There is no impact on conservative resistance to tax increases, noted the longtime Republican budget expert Steve Bell; Democrats have made tax increases a condition for cuts in Medicare and Social Security.
While it lasts, however, Mr. Obama's higher standing among independent voters could pressure Republicans to compromise on lower-profile issues that do not fall into well-worn partisan grooves.
Those issues include education, corporate tax overhaul and immigration, which Mr. Obama is to address in a speech this week. Advisers say he will repeat his call for a comprehensive new policy.
But that is likely to remain out of reach. Yet on some lesser steps to address immigration, Republicans may decide cooperation is ''the better part of valor,'' Mr. Podesta said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN PODESTA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



251 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Crackdown Is Escalating Across Syria

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- A military crackdown on Syria's seven-week uprising escalated Sunday, with reinforcements sent to two cities, more forces deployed in a southern town and nearly all communications severed to besieged locales, activists and human rights groups said. Fourteen people were killed in the city of Homs, they said, and hundreds were arrested.
The breadth of the assault -- from the Mediterranean coast to the poor steppe of southern Syria -- seemed to represent an important turn in an uprising that has posed the gravest challenge to the 11-year-long rule of President Bashar al-Assad. Though officials have continued to hint at reforms, and even gingerly reached out to some dissidents last week, the escalation of the crackdown seemed to signal the government's intent to end the uprising by force. 
Since the beginning of the uprising, Syria has barred most foreign journalists, and many news accounts have relied on human rights groups and networks of activists inside Syria. But in past days, those activists have complained that they have been almost entirely unable to speak with people in Homs and Baniyas, the most besieged places. Even satellite phones that protest organizers had smuggled across Syria were not working. ''It seems that they've gotten better in tracking satellite mobile phones,'' said Wissam Tarif, executive director of Insan, a Syrian human rights group.
The reasons for the newfound ability to sever communications were unclear, but Obama administration officials have said Iran, which faced a similar uprising in 2009, has provided the Syrian government, a longtime ally, with coercive supplies like tear gas, along with communications equipment that might help interrupt activists' phones.
''The only country they can trust to back them to the end is Iran,'' said an analyst based in Syria who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution.
The Syrian government's actions against protesters, which have intensified since Friday, come at a time when the opposition remains unable to act collectively. Even as the United States and the European Union have imposed limited sanctions on government figures, though not Mr. Assad himself, many officials view the opposition as too weak to provide an alternative, a point that the Syrian government has relentlessly pressed. Its argument, either us or chaos, has found a certain resonance among minorities of Christians and heterodox Muslim sects there.
''We're not focused on a transition right now,'' an Obama administration official said in Washington. ''We don't know who we'd talk to and who we'd work with.''
At least 30 tanks were said to be in Baniyas, one of Syria's most restive locales, which the military entered before dawn on Saturday. Activists and human rights groups complained of receiving almost no information from Baniyas, which has a population of 50,000 and is home to an oil refinery and a hydroelectric plant that serves the region, but one activist said at least 6 people had been killed and 250 people arrested since the operation began.
As in other towns, electricity and water were cut, at least temporarily.
Fighting was reported in Homs, Syria's third largest city, which tanks entered Friday. Mr. Tarif said 14 people had been killed there; he could not confirm the casualties in Baniyas. Videos smuggled out of Homs, their authenticity undetermined, showed gunfire and crowds of people running for cover across a grassy lot. Mr. Tarif said the military also entered Tafas, in southern Syria.
''This is a campaign that's going to more cities,'' he said. ''It's escalating, and it's very worrying because they're also getting better at isolating these places.''
He said his group had documented 750 arrests, most of them in the Damascus suburbs, though he had no precise figures for Homs and Baniyas.
The uprising began in mid-March with protests in Dara'a, a town near Tafas and the border with Jordan. The protesters gathered after security forces arrested and mistreated high school students for scrawling antigovernment graffiti. The unrest soon spread, with successive Fridays in which thousands took to the streets in dozens of towns. The military's presence in Tafas on Sunday suggests that the plight of Dara'a, part of a landscape knit tightly by extended clan loyalties, has roiled the region around it, a fertile but drought-stricken plateau famous for wheat and vineyards.
The military said it was withdrawing from Dara'a last week, and while armed columns were filmed departing, residents say the military remains in force. Townspeople were allowed to leave their homes Sunday from 8 a.m. to noon, activists said, and intermittent electricity and water were restored to some areas.
The Syrian government has sent signals to allies, in particular neighboring Turkey, that it is prepared to undertake some reform and begin a dialogue with opponents. But after a series of half-hearted concessions -- sweeping in rhetoric but negligible in impact -- the government repeatedly has met protesters with tear gas and live fire and sent its security forces to arrest thousands, by activists' count, sometimes going door to door and randomly picking up any man older than 15.
The government has dismissed the estimates, saying it is engaged in a fight with militant Islamists, and American officials acknowledge that some protesters have been armed. Syrian television is suffused with images of soldiers' burials. On Sunday, the Syrian news agency said that the authorities had seized sophisticated weapons and that the army was pursuing ''armed terrorist groups'' in Baniyas and elsewhere.
''The upper hand is with the hard-liners,'' said Radwan Ziadeh, a Syrian human rights advocate who is a visiting scholar at George Washington University. ''Now the official discourse is that we are in a period of instability, that we have to restore stability and that we can then talk again about reform. This is the official language.''
Though the government appears to feel more secure -- at least compared with two weeks ago -- it faces a landscape indelibly changed by the seven weeks of unrest. The economy is reeling, threatening the government's support among the economic elite and undermining the longstanding promise by the government of economic modernization, if not political reform.
Reports of defections -- so far, apparently few in number and limited to conscripts -- continue to circulate, though the government's pillars seem intact, in particular elite units loyal to Mr. Assad's brother, Maher, and the vast intelligence apparatus at the forefront of the crackdown. But morale is said to be low in the conscript army, much of which is drawn from a neglected countryside largely ruled by unaccountable security services.
''The regime was extremely weak when the crisis broke out,'' the Syria-based analyst said. ''Its strength was that no one in Syria knew how weak it was.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Many arrests were reported in the suburbs of Damascus. (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); SMUGGLING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); JOURNALISM (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); RELIGION (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); ARRESTS (56%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%) SYRIA (95%); LEBANON (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (88%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



252 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: To Grow, an Agency Breaks Down Walls

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A LEADING digital agency is expanding its portfolio of services as part of efforts to help wean marketers and other agencies -- and perhaps reporters, too -- off the notion that agencies still need to be labeled ''digital'' or ''traditional.''
The agency, R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is adding a unit that will specialize in event marketing, to be led by executives hired from agencies like Crispin Porter & Bogusky and the Lime Public Relations and Promotion division of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, both owned by MDC Partners. 
R/GA is also starting a practice that will be focused on the growing field known as data visualization, which seeks to make today's deluge of information more understandable by presenting it in visual forms like charts and graphs.
Those new offerings will join R/GA services like brand development, mobile advertising, relationship marketing and social media, not to mention its digital ad work for clients like Nike and Wal-Mart. R/GA has 1,072 employees, the agency says, about 850 of whom work at the New York headquarters.
As for describing R/GA as digital, ''everything is digital'' now, said Bob Greenberg, chairman, chief executive and global chief creative officer, and ''disrupted by technology.''
R/GA also provides services like those offered by so-called traditional agencies, Mr. Greenberg said, among them the creation and production of television commercials. For instance, there are 86 copywriters at the agency, he added.
R/GA also plans to grow in other ways, Mr. Greenberg said, including by filling the 189 openings the agency has and starting additional offices to join the six now in Chicago, San Francisco, Buenos Aires, London, Singapore and Sao Paulo.
Two more offices will be opened this year, he added, one of them possibly in Bucharest, Romania.
''We're not looking to just add more offerings,'' Mr. Greenberg said in a wide-ranging, 45-minute phone interview. ''The real reason we need to do it is to have a new model of an advertising agency for what clients need and what consumers will respond to.''
That was seconded by Joe Phelps, chief of the Phelps Group in Santa Monica, Calif., and the author of a book, ''Pyramids Are Tombs,'' about how traditional corporate organizations need to change.
''The organization's design influences the people's behavior,'' Mr. Phelps said. ''Anything other than being organized around the client is less than optimal.''
''You have to think long term, not next quarter,'' he added.
R/GA had revenue last year of $190 million, according to the annual Agency Report compiled by the trade publication Advertising Age, up 46.2 percent from 2009 -- the largest percentage gain for any unit of the 15 largest consolidated agency networks in the Ad Age rankings.
By United States revenue last year, according to Ad Age, R/GA was 34th out of all agencies, up from 58 in the 2009 rankings. No other agencies among the 50 largest in that category rose that many spots.
R/GA's United States revenue of about $175 million enabled it to finish higher in those Ad Age rankings than well-known traditional agencies like Deutsch, the Richards Group, Campbell-Ewald and Crispin Porter.
''I had great successes'' at Crispin Porter, said Brian Schultz , who left the agency's Boulder, Colo., office, where he had been executive producer of the OuterActive unit, which specializes in live events and other experiential marketing, to lead the new R/GA Live Events unit as group director.
''After talking with Bob,'' Mr. Schultz said, referring to Mr. Greenberg, he decided to join R/GA because of an opportunity to extend the concept of live events. ''Events don't necessarily have to happen in the physical world,'' he added. ''We can create emotional experiences online.''
At OuterActive, Mr. Schultz said, he worked with marketers like Diageo, Kraft Foods, Microsoft and Volkswagen of America. He declined to identify the initial clients of R/GA Live Events because, he said, ''we're in a prelaunch embargo period.''
Others who have joined R/GA Live Events, which has six employees to start, include Gabe Banner, executive producer, who came from Lime, and Elizabeth Valleau, creative director, who has worked at Mktg and Sean Combs's Bad Boy Worldwide Entertainment Group.
As for the data visualization practice, which is starting with nine employees, it is being led by Andy Clark, a 10-year R/GA employee, as executive creative director. He will be joined by Tye Rattenbury, who takes the title of data scientist and comes from a post as a research scientist at the Intel Corporation.
Data visualization is ''a knockout offering,'' said Mr. Greenberg, who also referred to it as ''data viz'' (rhymes with whiz) or visual analytics.
An example of data visualization is a word cloud, which brings to life the frequency of words in an article, speech or other text.
Another example is an application called Nike+ GPS, for devices like the iPhone, that R/GA developed with Nike. The app, which costs $1.99, includes features like a color-coded heat map of a run, displaying information like when peak speed was hit along the route.
''You can see where you've slowed down or sped up,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''Personal data is more important to runners than music.''
Or, to paraphrase Shakespeare, if data be the food of love, visualize on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Everything is digital'' now, said Bob Greenberg, the head of R/GA, which has over 1,000 employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); WRITERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (73%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BRANDING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (71%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) ROMANIA (91%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



253 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Poker as a Game of Skill

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: A new study lends weight to the argument that online poker should be legal. 

 BODY:
Is poker a game of luck or skill? That's the question the economists Steven D. Levitt (of "Freakonomics" fame) and Thomas J. Miles explore in a new working paper published with the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Their research may interest more than the usual band of professional economists. Last month, the Justice Department indicted executives of the three leading online poker sites that allow Americans to play, charging them with a variety of crimes including bank fraud and running an illegal gambling operation. The department is seeking $3 billion in compensation. As a result, the sites stopped accepting American players, estimated to number 1.3 million to up to 15 million.
The economists contend that according to both state and federal law, "the single most important factor in determining the legality of poker is whether poker is a game of skill or a game of luck."
To determine how important lady luck is, Mr. Levitt and Mr. Miles analyzed results from the 2010 World Series of Poker that was held in Las Vegas and computed the net loss or gain for each of the more than 32,000 players who competed for a total of $185 million in prize money.The tournament's entry fee ranged from $1,000 to $50,000, for which a player receives a certain amount of chips.
The pair found that the 720 players rated as highly skilled won an average of more than $1,200 each per event, or received a 30 percent return on their initial investment. All other players averaged a loss of $400 per event, 15 percent of their investment.
The differences are "far larger in magnitude than those observed in financial markets, where fees charged by the money managers viewed as being most talented can run as high as 3 percent of assets under management and 30 percent of annual returns."
The paper is available at the bureau's Web site. A full explanation of the federal indictments of online poker sites can be found on Nate Silver's FiveThirtyEight blog.
Tell us whether you think poker is mostly skill or luck. And how much did you win or lose the last time you played?

        
Geithner Plan as Poker Game
        
Lowering Sin Taxes to Attract Those Lucrative Sinners
        
More Nerdy March Madness Brackets
        
Can Gay Marriage Save State Budgets?
        
Economic Desperation, Reshaping Morality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POKER (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GAMING (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Gambling; online gambling; poker; Steven D. Levitt; Thomas Miles; Levitt, Steven D; Computers and the Internet; Luck; Poker (Card Game); National Bureau of Economic Research

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (91%) National Bureau of Economic Research

PERSON: Levitt, Steven D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



254 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Reader Idea | From 19th-Century Factories to 21st-Century Sweatshops

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: This idea, from a high school history teacher in New Jersey, has students compare conditions in the Lowell Mills factories during the Industrial Revolution with conditions in sweatshops today. 

 BODY:
Here is another in our Great Ideas From Readers series.
If you've used The Times for teaching and learning and would like to see your idea in our blog, write in and tell us what you've done.
Teacher: Samantha Western
School/Location: Livingston High School, Livingston, N.J.
Grade or Level of Students: Secondary (ages 14-18)
Idea: Teaching about current-day sweatshops to make the topic of work conditions during the Industrial Revolution more relevant for students.
Why We Chose It: Any topic in history can be enlivened for students if they understand its connections to their own, present-day world, and The Times is, of course, a wonderful source for that. We know that the Industrial Revolution is a history classroom perennial, and we thought Ms. Western's idea was one many teachers might find useful.
An Overview, in Ms. Western's Own Words: 
Kids were not connecting to the topic of the Lowell Mills in my United States history class. After searching The Times, I decided to include articles on current-day sweatshops that have working conditions similar to those at the 19th-century mills in terms of hours worked, use of labor and danger to the workers. 
From the perspective of United States history, it was a success, but from the perspective of world history, it was a huge success. Students were able to examine working conditions in other countries and relate this new knowledge to events in American history. Instead of just knowing the basic facts, they identified with the struggle and had an understanding of why it was acceptable to have people working under these conditions during the Industrial Revolution. 
But they also saw ways that they could get involved to change the future. Knowing that students want to have a positive influence on the future is simply the best it gets for a teacher!
What She Did:
Ms. Western has allowed us to link to a PDF of the handout she gave her students to guide the following assignments: 
1. Read two Times articles about sweatshops, including "Where Sweatshops Are a Dream," a 2009 Op-Ed by Nicholas D. Kristof and "The Ugly Side of Free Trade: Sweatshops in Jordan," a 2006 article by Steven Greenhouse.
2. Visit three Web pages devoted to the topic, including dosomething.org's page on International Human Rights; "No Sweat," a British organization against sweatshop exploitation; and the Human Rights and Sweatshops page at Human Rights Nexus.
3. Using this new information, complete a chart comparing the conditions at Lowell Mills to those in sweatshops today.
4. Answer a series of questions about the individual articles and Web pages.
To support her E.L.L. students when doing assignments using news sources, Ms. Western has created a technique she calls "picture funneling," which she describes in this PDF. She writes, "It has been a great aid to my E.L.L. students, and also has helped students in standard and advanced levels! The strategy focuses on "funneling" ideas to understand the message that a picture can send. It also enhances their ability to read, understand, and appreciate news articles."
Related:
Learning Network | 2011 Lesson Plan 100 Years Later: Examining the Impact of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire
Learning Network | 2001 Lesson Plan Sweating the Big Stuff: Exploring the Responsibility of Corporations in Increasing Global Labor Standards
Times Topics | Factories and Manufacturing
What contemporary parallels have you drawn in teaching a historical topic? Comment below, or, if you used The New York Times to do it, consider writing in to our Great Ideas From Readers series.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); SWEATSHOPS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%) factories; factories and manufacturing; Industrial Revolution; Lowell Mills; sweatshops; American History; Civics; Economics; Global Economics; Great Ideas From Readers; History of North America; Individual Rights; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; Women in the World

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



255 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: The Best Investment Advice: Stop Losing Money

BYLINE: CARL RICHARDS


HIGHLIGHT: Too many people chase the very best investments and end up losing money in the process. 

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog and on his personal Web site, BehaviorGap.com.
I'm more convinced than ever that Mark Twain was correct when he decided that he was more interested in the return of his money than the return on his money.
A couple of weeks ago, we discussed how often people in their 60s and 70s say that their primary residence of over 30 years was their best investment. This belief exists despite the fact that home values barely kept pace with inflation. How can this be, given that during the same time period average annual returns in various stock market indexes ranged from 8 to 13 percent?
Because for most people, it was the only investment that didn't lose money!
While the same outcome may not apply to housing in recent years, the principle still applies to investing in general. Most of us are chasing the highest return, because that's what investing is all about, right?
But the experience of many people has been that the well-intentioned search for the best investment actually cost them money. They bought at the peak and sold at the bottom, and their overall returns ended up being meager. I suspect lots of these people would gladly trade their actual experience over the last decade or more with simply having their money returned to them.
So, what if the key to investment success is to start by making sure that you don't lose money? Could it be that accepting a lower rate of return might result in having more money than continuing the wild goose chase of this magical 10 percent we hear that the stock market delivers over time?
Part of the problem is that we focus on the wrong thing, like finding the very best investment or beating a particular stock market benchmark. Both are a wild goose chase. Having the money for a dignified retirement, however, is not. By setting real financial goals, we can quit chasing investment performance and focus instead on creating a plan for the future that makes sense.
Once a plan is in place, it may very well be that the best thing we can do with our investments is to simply not lose money and take the time and energy we were spending in the chase and focus on those things that we have more control over. Things like finding creative ways to earn or save more, or just enjoying the one life we have to live.

        
Are We Buying High All Over Again?
        
Why Investment Risk Increases Over Time
        
How Greed and Fear Kill Returns
        
Taking Questions on Your Bad Investing Behavior
        
Charlie Sheen, Bernie Madoff and Your Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (69%) Mutual Funds; Retirement; Stocks & Bonds; Personal Finances; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%); CHARLIE SHEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



256 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: China's Growing Overseas Portfolio

BYLINE: DAVID BARBOZA


HIGHLIGHT: China is quickly shifting from being a country known for exports to one capable of making huge investments in global financial markets, analysts say. 

 BODY:
SHANGHAI - A study released last week by the Asia Society in New York forecast that over the coming decade China could invest as much as $2 trillion in overseas companies and projects, with a big share of that money heading to the United States. 
 In addition, the United States Treasury department released figures last week that show that the value of China's holdings of United States stocks climbed to $127 billion in June 2010, up from about $3 billion in 2004. 
 "What is striking is that China is the first emerging market to become a major player" in the global financial markets, through its outward investments, says Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University. "This represents China's increasing use of its financial prowess to strengthen its economic linkages around the world." Professor Prasad says China is not just investing in overseas companies and factories; it's also offering aid to resource-rich countries in exchange for stable, long-term supplies of energy and natural resources. 
 On Friday, the English language newspaper, China Daily, quoted a senior Ministry of Commerce official saying that within three years China's overseas direct investment would surpass its inbound foreign direct investment. The official said much of that investment would be directed toward the United States, Europe and Latin America. 
That would be a major milestone, since China's economic boom has been powered by decade by overseas companies investing in manufacturing and export-related industries here. Last year, China's inbound foreign direct investment was about $100 billion, while outbound investments in the non-financial sector were about $59 billion.

        
What We're Reading: Investing in Hogs
        
Paying for Innovation
        
What We're Reading...
        
Who Cares About the Fed?
        
The Impact of China's Consumers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (94%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%) China; foreign aid; investment; Foreign Investments; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



257 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Teenage Girls in a Dystopian World

BYLINE: LELA MOORE


HIGHLIGHT: A new crop of dystopian Y.A. novels explores what happens when a government legislates romantic choice. 

 BODY:
What if teenage girls ran the world? But they still didn't have any real power?
This is an idea explored in a new crop of novels in the ever-popular dystopian Y.A. genre. Under the restrictive regimes in Megan McCafferty's "Bumped," Ally Condie's "Matched" and Lauren Oliver's "Delirium," teenage girls are the most valued members of society. But there's a twist: in these dark worlds, the heroines are more likely to be valued for their fertility or marriageability than their intellect or athletic skill.
Ms. McCafferty said she was inspired by news reports of a "pregnancy pact" in Gloucester, Mass. and the subsequent pregnancies of the TV star Jamie Lynn Spears and Bristol Palin. "All this attention prompted me to think, 'What if teenage girls were encouraged to have sex and get pregnant? What circumstances would make that universally acceptable?' "
The result is "Bumped," which portrays a world where young girls are tasked with furthering the human race after a virus wipes out the fertility of everyone over 18. Of course, the identical twin heroines don't want to play along.
"These books are really about defying the social order," said Ms. McCafferty. "And at what time in your life do you feel more oppressed than in high school?"
All three novels feature a government that legislates romantic choice. In "Bumped," where the government actively promotes surrogacy among teenagers, girls are matched with mates by agents who provide them with lucrative corporate sponsorship in exchange for producing genetically blessed offspring for infertile couples.
In "Matched," the ruling administration known as The Society pairs its teenagers using a computerized system - indeed, one of Ms. Condie's inspirations for her novel was a conversation with her husband, an economist, in which they discussed what would happen if the perfect online-dating algorithm were created with the government in control.
Meanwhile, Lena, the heroine of "Delirium," lives in a world in which the government has convinced its people that love is a disease, and requires them to undergo "the procedure" (it involves a laser) at age 18 to rid them of their ability to fall in love.
"The romantic landscape teens navigate now is technologically heavy but light on real connection. It's not really fulfilling," Ms. Oliver explained. The appeal of these books seems to lie in the fact that by putting so much value on the teenage girl population, the dystopian governments effectively enable them to change that system. Seems girls still want to believe in romance.

        
New Study Finds Gender Bias in Children's Books
        
Rick Riordan's Favorite Childhood Books
        
Books by and for Autistic Children
        
Inside Obama's Half-Sister's Children's Book
        
Book Review Podcast: Francisco Goldman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LITERATURE (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (75%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); SURROGATE MOTHERHOOD (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (64%); AUTISM (50%); SPONSORSHIP (50%) children's literature; Books and Literature; Books

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOK PRESS (50%); CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



258 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed Mother's Day

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Publicly subsidized jobs for single parents and others would go a long way to reducing the difficulty employment environment they face, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Yesterday, many of the nation's mothers enjoyed roses, breakfast in bed, donations in their name to needy families elsewhere in the world or other treats. But plenty of mothers needed something that their families couldn't give them - jobs.
"Work first!" was the rallying cry behind sweeping changes to public-assistance programs for single parents enacted 15 years ago, with the establishment of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF (pronounced TAN-if). So what happens when paying jobs aren't available?
Single mothers are still more likely to be employed than married mothers, for the obvious reason that they depend more heavily on their own earnings. But it's harder for them to find jobs, in part because they find it harder to make child-care arrangements.
Unemployment rates among single mothers have long surpassed those among married men and women. In 2010, their unemployment rate averaged 14.6 percent, compared with 6.8 percent among married men and 6.3 percent among married mothers.The Institute for Women's Policy Research emphasizes that women have historically had less access than men to unemployment benefits. Most states restrict eligibility to those who experience involuntary job loss and exclude those who quit for reasons such as loss of child-care assistance or the need to tend to a sick family member. Until recently, most states excluded part-time workers from coverage.
Yet unemployment insurance has become an increasingly important source of assistance for single mothers. In a detailed analysis of changes in benefit receipt between 1990 and 2005, H. Luke Shaefer, Liyun Wu and Elizabeth Phillips, researchers at the University of Michigan, found a distinct pattern: After TANF was established in 1996, low-educated single mothers who lost jobs became more likely to receive benefits through unemployment compensation than through "welfare" (means-tested cash assistance).
Concerted efforts to limit access and reduce benefits have made such welfare payments increasingly irrelevant to the actual welfare of single mothers and their children. A recent summary by the public-interest group Legal Momentum showed that program enrollment - more than 80 percent in 1995 - had declined to only about 40 percent of eligible families by 2005. Only 21 percent of all poor children were enrolled in 2009 (the latest year for which data are available). Annual TANF benefits remain below the poverty level and typically amount to less than $5 per person per day.
While access to food stamps (a form of near-cash assistance) has improved, inflation has eroded the combined value of TANF and food-stamp benefits by about 23 percent between 1996 and 2010 in the typical (median) state. These benefits add up to less than the poverty level in all states.
Whatever public program single mothers rely on to help them through a jobless spell, they face strict time limits: Federal rules impose a lifetime limit of 60 months for TANF and 99 weeks for a spell of unemployment insurance. Several states enforce stricter restrictions.
As high levels of average unemployment persist, these limits seem increasingly draconian.
Single mothers are not the only Americans desperate to find either a job or some assistance to feed their families.
Why not provide publicly subsidized jobs for single parents - and others - willing and able to work?
A recent study of public job-creation efforts for low-income parents by LaDonna Pavetti, Liz Schott, and Elizabeth Lower-Basch and co-published by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the Center for Law and Social Policy showed that several states used fiscal stimulus funds effectively to this end.
Some subsidized programs exceeded their goals: Illinois intended to place about 15,000 individuals in subsidized jobs and ended up placing more than 30,000. More than 60,000 applied - poignant testimony to the desire for jobs.
Public job-creation efforts could be scaled up, if more legislators would support them. That "work first" slogan should be aimed at them, rather than at single mothers.

        
Feminists for the Italian Future
        
Super Sad True Jobs Story
        
Measuring Jobless Families
        
His Recession, Becoming Hers
        
The Weak Heart of Economics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (91%); FAMILY (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PARENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); CHILD CARE (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); FOOD STAMPS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (53%) Child Care; employment; Nancy Folbre; politics; Unemployment; welfare; welfare reform; women; women in the workforce

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



259 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Lays Out Path on Debt Limit

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: The House speaker plans to tell the Economic Club of New York that an increase in the federal debt limit should be accompanied by spending cuts that exceed any rise in borrowing power. 

 BODY:
House Speaker John A. Boehner plans to tell the Economic Club of New York on Monday night that an increase in the federal debt limit should be accompanied by spending cuts that exceed any rise in borrowing power.
"Without significant spending cuts and reforms to reduce our debt, there will be no debt limit increase," Mr. Boehner says in excerpts of his remarks released by his office Monday afternoon. "And the cuts should be greater than the accompanying increase in debt authority the president is given. We should be talking about cuts of trillions, not just billions."
The administration has not specified the amount of the increase it is seeking in the debt limit, but the remarks represented Mr. Boehner's clearest statement to date on what he is seeking in exchange for Republican votes to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit by the administration's August deadline. 
In the speech, Mr. Boehner also throws cold water on the push by some Senate Democrats and President Obama for "triggers'' that prompt automatic spending reductions if Congress and the White House do not meet targets for lowering the deficit.
Mr. Boehner said the reductions should be "actual cuts and program reforms, not broad deficit or debt targets that punt the tough questions to the future."
He added, "And with the exception of tax hikes -- which will destroy jobs -- everything is on the table."
Despite warnings from Wall Street and elsewhere that a failure to raise the debt limit could have dire results for the nation's economy, Mr. Boehner says raising the ceiling without new spending controls would be more risky.
"It's true that allowing America to default would be irresponsible," he said in the excerpts. "But it would be more irresponsible to raise the debt ceiling without simultaneously taking dramatic steps to reduce spending and reform the budget process.
"To increase the debt limit without simultaneously addressing the drivers of our debt -- in defiance of the will of our people -- would be monumentally arrogant and massively irresponsible," he said.

        
Rubio Steps Into Spotlight on Debt Fight
        
House Republicans Prepare to Get Back to Business
        
Geithner Urges Congress to Increase Debt Limit
        
Senate Still Must Deal With Debt Limit Increase

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAUCUSES (79%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX INCREASES (50%) debt limit; Boehner, John A; National Debt (US); Economic Club of New York; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Economic Club of New York

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (94%); BARACK OBAMA (55%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



260 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: One on One: Ayesha Khanna, Futurist

BYLINE: JOSHUA BRUSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Ayesha Khanna, director of the Hybrid Reality Institute, talks about the increasing intelligence of machines, and the importance of seeing technological development with a global perspective. 

 BODY:
Ayesha Khanna is the director of the Hybrid Reality Institute, a think tank that explores the practical implications of what she refers to as "human-technology co-evolution in the Hybrid Age." The following is an edited transcript of an interview with Ms. Khanna. 
Joshua Brustein: What is the hybrid age?
Ayesha Khanna: Humanity has had four technological revolutions. We had the Stone Age, the Agrarian Age the, Industrial Age and the Information Age. I believe we have entered a new era, the Hybrid Age. 
Just like we had stone tools and the wheel, or the personal computer in the Information Age, the Hybrid Age has biotechnology and nanotechnology. There will be a proliferation of technology of all sizes and shapes, the increasing intelligence of technology, and the emergence of technologies as a social actor. When you say technology is a social actor, you're talking about how we may interact with artificial intelligence in situations where we once interacted with other human beings?
Exactly. As human-machine interaction becomes voice-based and gesture-based it becomes more natural. And the machines that we're dealing with have some sort of mechanism by which they respond. Maybe it is a little robot that flutters its eyes, or walks towards you, or responds to something you need. Our tendency as human beings in that situation is to feel very nurturing towards them. 
Is this something to be excited about, or worried about?
I'm a techno-optimist. I worked in villages and jails in Pakistan, that's where I grew up. When I started working in technology I saw its potential, but also its ability to lock people away from social mobility in certain ways. So I began to think of access to technology as a human right.
How does technology lock people away from social mobility?
We have to think of technology as beyond just the Web. If you just look at biotechnology, immediately you have this greater gap. DARPA is already doing things like its super soldier program, where it is developing biological enhancements for soldiers. If these things were to come to market then the wealthy will be able to buy these things. When some people live longer and are stronger and they're fitter it will be very hard for other people to compete with them. Such innovations will be luxuries in the beginning.
Is that something you're talking about for five years in the future, 10? 20? 
I would say the beginnings will be happening in the next 10 years. An interesting thing will be whether it happens in the U.S. or in China or East Asia. If other places start doing it first it will be very interesting.
In general our tendency in thinking about emerging technologies is to be very U.S.-centric. But the divide between haves and have-nots might not be the rich in America versus the poor in America. It might be the Chinese versus the U.S. 
We really just need to expand the way we think about these things. I think we'll see a lot of interesting innovations and paradigm-shifting business models come out of Africa and East Asia, and out of South Asia as well. 
Africa is always cited as the laboratory for mobile innovation. Why is Africa so ripe?
Mainly because they have constraints. They are very un-banked -- they have more mobile phones than they have bank accounts. Much of Africa also has underlying infrastructure issues. But at the same time they don't have these legacy systems that we have. So they can do things like mobile payments, whereas here it is taking a very long time. In Africa they exchange money through text messages all the time. They can leapfrog. 
Do you think it's getting harder to see things only within the bubble of the U.S.? 
Yes, and we have to look at the larger implications of things. Take 3-D manufacturing. Is this trend good or bad, economically? The U.S. doesn't rely on low-level manufacturing, things that could get printed from a 3-D printer. So it is probably good because small business entrepreneurs can spring up. 
Who loses? Well, Chinese factory workers, maybe. We don't really care. But where does the money that the Chinese workers earn by making plates, glasses and toys? U.S. Treasury Bonds. There are a lot of cascading scenarios you have to think about. Something that seems obvious is murky if you go deeper. 
What role does your organization play in these debates?
I think what is unique about this new institute is its focus on social implications. Many people who think about technology just talk about the science without fleshing out how we get to the future, or what are we will have to go through. Our approach is not futurism for futurism's sake. Let's think about what the future economies can look like, or what does a city look like? Or what citizenship should mean in 20 years? 
So you want to be able to come up with concrete things that we could do to adapt to these fundamental technological changes?
Yes. Let's take education. I think kids should have an intuitive sense of technology just like you have an intuitive sense of the economy. That doesn't mean you need to know programming, just like you don't need to know accounting. You just need to have a feel for it because every day of your life you're going to be interacting with it. 
What potential pitfalls are you most focused on?
My fear is that much of this is very manipulative. What happens when objects decide what choices you should have in life based on your habits and your digital footprint? If we go to the Web and we're pushed things based on our habits or our digital profile, that's worrisome. 
A colleague, Adam Greenfield, talks about a vending machine in Japan where it can tell what your age and gender are, and based on that it tells you what drinks you want. 
A lot is going to be determined by our choices over the next 20 years. These choices are not going to be about less technology or more technology; I don't think less is an option. 
That's what is so interesting about the hybrid age.

        
Imagining a World of Hardware Mashups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (73%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (72%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (69%); TRANSCRIPTS (57%) futurism; Artificial Intelligence; Biotechnology; Computers and the Internet; One on One; People; Technology and Society

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (78%); UNITED STATES (78%); ASIA (54%); EASTERN ASIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



261 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Profit Up 58%

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: HSBC said on Monday that profit rose 58 percent in the first quarter after the quality of its loan portfolio improved. 

 BODY:
HSBC said on Monday that profit rose 58 percent in the first quarter after the quality of its loan portfolio improved.
Net income rose to $4.2 billion from $2.6 billion in the period a year earlier, while charges for bad loans fell to $2.4 billion from $3.8 billion. Profit at its investment banking unit fell.
Stuart Gulliver, the chief executive, is scheduled to present a strategy overhaul to investors on Wednesday, including plans to reduce costs. Mr. Gulliver said on Monday that HSBC expected economic growth to slow this year from 2010.
"There remain a number of risks to the global recovery cycle in the short-term," Mr. Gulliver said in a statement. "In the developed world, higher oil and food prices may slow the pace of recovery, while in emerging markets, higher inflation is dampening consumer sentiment."
Earnings in Hong Kong and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region continued to grow in the first quarter even as the bank, which is based in London, spent more on employees and marketing. HSBC does not report more detailed profit figures on a quarterly basis.
HSBC continued to reduce its consumer finance portfolio in the United States and lending at its credit card business fell, the bank said. As a result, charges on bad loans fell by 30 percent. The business in North America remained profitable, but that profit fell 60 percent.
In Britain, HSBC set aside $440 million to cover possible claims by some customers that the bank had wrongly sold them a type of loan insurance. The step came after a British court ruled that several banks, including HSBC, were responsible to compensate customers. Barclays and the Lloyds Banking Group also provisioned for such costs.

        
HSBC Profit Doubles, but Outlook Slides
        
HSBC Names New Head of Investment Banking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INFLATION (71%); FOOD PRICES (69%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%) HSBC; Stuart Gulliver; Gulliver, Stuart; HSBC Holdings PLC; HSBC Holdings PLC|HBC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HSBC Holdings PLC

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%) HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: Gulliver, Stuart

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED KINGDOM (86%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



262 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: "Currency Wars" and the Impossible Trinity (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A new version of an old trilemma. 

 BODY:
Putin says we're hooligans; Brazil accuses us of "currency wars"; and the Chinese are, well, being their usual charming selves. But what's going on in the international currency scene?
I don't know why I didn't think to put it this way before -- and I don't know if anyone else is saying this -- but what we have here is a classic example of the Mundellian impossible trinity, aka the trilemma, which says that you can't simultaneously have free movement of capital, a stable exchange rate, and independent monetary policy. Here's an illustration:
So, how does this apply to current issues? Advanced countries, very much including the United States, are weighed down by the aftereffects of the 2008 financial crisis; this has led to low investment returns. Meanwhile, emerging markets are in much better shape, so capital wants to go there.
And this creates a problem for the EMs. They don't want their currencies to rise sharply; Brazil is not at all happy about this:
But not letting the currency rise would be inflationary - that is, Brazil doesn't want to give up on its independent monetary policy. So what's the answer?
All those accusation of hooliganism, currency wars etc. are in effect demands that the trilemma be resolved by having America give up having an independent monetary policy -- basically, that the Fed give up on trying to stabilize the US economy so that emerging markets aren't faced with the uncomfortable tradeoff between massive appreciation and imported inflation. But this shouldn't and won't happen.
The alternative, trilemma analysis suggests, is capital controls. China already has these, but they're looking a bit porous. Brazil has been making some efforts in this direction, but they obviously haven't been enough.
But to come back to the issue of monetary policy, what this analysis tells us is that the hard choices emerging markets are facing don't reflect any kind of spectacular misbehavior on the part of the United States. All that we're seeing is the classic set of tradeoffs that any currency regime faces -- and it's not the business of the Fed to save other countries from the necessity of making choices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



263 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Setti Warren to Challenge Scott Brown in 2012

BYLINE: ABBY GOODNOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: Setti Warren, the mayor of Newton, Mass., announced Monday that he would seek the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Scott Brown next year. 

 BODY:
Setti Warren, the mayor of Newton, Mass., announced Monday that he would seek the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Scott Brown next year in what will likely be a crowded primary race.
Mr. Warren, 40, took office last year and has come under some criticism in his city of about 85,000 for seeking another job so soon. He is not well known in Massachusetts, but as a former aide to President Bill Clinton and Senator John Kerry, he enters the race with some Democratic muscle behind him.
Most polls have suggested that Mr. Brown, a Republican who took office last year, will be exceedingly hard to beat. A former state senator, he became a political celebrity after winning the Senate seat that Edward M. Kennedy held for nearly a half-century before his death in 2009.Democrats have been looking for a strong challenger after Gov. Deval Patrick and Victoria Reggie Kennedy, Mr. Kennedy's widow, ruled out running. Mr. Warren joins Bob Massie, a former nominee for lieutenant governor, and Alan Khazei, a co-founder of a national service program, in seeking the party's nomination.
In a YouTube video released Monday, Mr. Warren, the state's only black mayor, said Mr. Brown was "an honorable man" but not "the independent voice in the Senate that so many expected him to be." Mr. Brown had voted with Republican leaders 87 percent of the time, he said.
"I believe in the core values of creating opportunity for all Americans and protecting our most vulnerable," Mr. Warren said in the video. "Yes, we need to cut government spending, but we cannot let a crisis born of fiscal mismanagement destroy all that we stand for."
Before becoming the mayor of Newton, a brainy, left-leaning city outside Boston, Mr. Warren spent a year in Iraq as an intelligence officer in the Navy Reserve. He also worked on Mr. Clinton's advance team, ran the New England division of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and served as deputy state director for Mr. Kerry, who was a groomsman in Mr. Warren's wedding.Representative Barney Frank, another Democrat from Newton, told the National Journal last month that he had advised Mr. Warren not to run for Senate so early in his mayoral term.
"I think he may be underestimating the difficulty of running a statewide campaign and trying to be the mayor," Mr. Frank said at the time.
In a statement, Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Brown, said, "Scott Brown was elected to do a job, and his focus is on cutting spending and getting our economy moving again. There will be plenty of time for campaigning later."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%) Brown, Scott P; Warren, Setti; Elections; Newton (Mass)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (93%); BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); TED KENNEDY (78%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%) Brown, Scott P; Warren, Setti

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Newton (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



264 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Why Success Starts With Failure

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Society would be better off if it became comfortable with trial and error, argues the author of "Adapt," a new book. 

 BODY:
Tim Harford is a columnist for The Financial Times and the author of "The Undercover Economist." He's part of the growing cadre of journalists who try to write about economics in plain English. His new book, "Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure," will be published this week. Our conversation follows.
Q. You briefly tell a story about the chef Jamie Oliver. He persuaded schools in one part of London to change their lunch menus to reduce fat, sugar and salt and to increase the number of fruits and vegetables. When two economists studied the children later, they found less illness and somewhat better school performance. That's incredible. How much confidence should we have that the change in the menus caused the health and academic changes?Mr. Harford: What really grabbed my attention about this incident was not, "Healthy meals help kids concentrate in school" - it was, "Wow, it takes a campaign by a TV chef to find out something like this."
The research was carefully done by serious economists, but we could have more confidence in their findings if the project to improve school meals had been designed as an experiment. It wasn't; it was designed for a TV show. After it started, Tony Blair, the British prime minister at the time, was falling over himself to endorse it. Yet it was a simple idea that Blair's government could have tested out years before.
One of the main ideas of the book is that the world is full of interesting ideas that might help solve some of our big problems, but nobody really knows which of these ideas will work and which will fail. So policy makers, corporate leaders and social campaigners need to be much more open to all sorts of formal and informal experiments. Jamie Oliver created an accidental experiment. It would be nice if we spent a bit more energy doing this deliberately.Q. You're saying, in essence, that society doesn't do enough trial and error. What are some of the areas that could benefit most obviously and immediately from trial and error?
Mr. Harford: I look at lots of different examples -- military strategy; climate change policy; development aid; education and social policy at home; and support for innovation .
I think our system for promoting innovation, which is funded by a combination of government grants and private enterprise, struggles with large and adventurous projects, such as clean energy. The private sector is terrific at producing lots of experiments (just think of Silicon Valley) but not at funding expensive, long-term projects. Government grants can do that but are often rather risk-averse. One promising approach to get the best of both is innovation prizes. Another is to use a far more risk-loving system of grants.
In Iraq, we had a failing strategy and leaders who refused to listen to feedback from the men on the front line. It took a near rebellion from some brave colonels in Iraq to change the strategy. The U.S. military now seems to recognize that a successful post-Cold-War campaign is going to require the soldiers on the ground to improvise a lot more.
Of course we can't simply say, "Let's experiment more," because there are areas of the economy where experiments can go off the rails -- credit derivatives, anyone?
Q. Innovation is an especially important subject, because it has such a big effect on economic growth and living standards. And there is reason to worry that the pace of innovation has slowed in recent years.
How would you recommend that the United States change its policies intended to promote innovation? You're based in London, so I realize you may want to talk about what some other countries are doing well -- if, in fact, there are any shining examples.
Mr. Harford: Here's the challenge: by its very nature, innovation requires a lot of exploration and a lot of blind alleys. Government agencies don't tend to be comfortable with that, so the private sector often makes the running. Even when an idea was initially government funded -- the Internet is a classic example -- it's taken the private sector to explore its potential.
But I'm not happy to leave this to the private sector alone, because modern innovations tend to require ever more money, larger teams and more specialists. The age of the lone inventor is long gone, and in important cases -- for instance, a smart energy grid, or nuclear fusion -- the private sector just doesn't have the money or the patience to pay for progress.
So this is fundamentally an organizational problem: how to harness the diversity of the private sector with the long-term funding of the public sector?
I see two promising approaches. One is to earmark more government research grants for high-risk projects. A fascinating research paper compares conservative medical research grants from the National Institutes of Health with more speculative grants from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The Hughes approach produces more failures but many more "big hits." Clearly, there's a balance to be struck.
A second approach is the use of innovation prizes. These have received increasing attention but there's potential to put up far larger prizes -- multibillion-dollar affairs.
Q. Who is a hero of adaption -- someone who managed to change an organization that had been terrified of failure?
Mr. Harford: There are several inspiring characters in the book, but I'd pick out Gen. H.R. McMaster, who in the spring of 2005 was a colonel in charge of operations near the Iraqi city of Tal Afar. He developed a new approach to fighting insurgents. It was successfully copied by other colonels and became an important inspiration for the "surge" of 2007.
What makes General McMaster's initiative amazing is that he had to shrug off every link in the chain of command above him. Remember that in 2005 Donald Rumsfeld didn't even want to hear the word "insurgent," so this was a career-threatening move, Many observers commented on the fact that he was repeatedly passed over for promotion.
I wanted to explore why he did it. Partly it was his academic background: McMaster was a historian who wrote a blistering account of the failures of leadership during the Vietnam War. And it was also his personal experience. McMaster captained a troop of tanks during the first Gulf war and won a celebrated victory -- the Battle of 73 Easting -- against Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard. Rather than resting on his laurels, McMaster argued that this battle -- a total surprise, in a sandstorm, with no air cover -- showed that the traditional satellite-guided air war had serious limitations. He argued that junior commanders on the ground would often be the ones called upon to adapt to local circumstances, and the military command structure had to acknowledge that.

        
A Conversation With Tyler Cowen
        
'The Big Thirst': The Future of Water
        
A Fresh Look at Fighting Global Poverty
        
How Parenting Matters
        
When Hard Times Led to a Boom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LITERATURE (78%); CHILDREN (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (61%) Book Chat; H.R. McMaster; innovation; Jamie Oliver; obesity; random assignment; Social Impact Bonds; Tim Harford; Harford, Tim; Books and Literature

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%) Harford, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



265 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Lieutenant Governor, Not Cuomo, Attends Gay Rights Rally

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Though Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo plans to embark on a statewide tour to promote the rights of gays to marry, he chose not to attend a rally on the issue in Albany. 

 BODY:
ALBANY - Gov.Andrew M. Cuomo was conspicuously absent on Monday as more than 1,000 New Yorkers gathered at the State Capitol for the annual lobby day in support of gay rights.
In his place, Mr. Cuomo sent Lt. Gov. Robert J. Duffy, who devoted much of his speech to defending the governor's determination to fight for the legalization of same-sex marriage.
"I want to make one thing perfectly clear," Mr. Duffy told an audience at a state convention center here. "Nobody in this state should ever question or underestimate Governor Cuomo's commitment to marriage equality." 
Beyond defending the governor, Mr. Duffy, the former mayor of Rochester, cited his Catholicism -- his mother was once a nun, and his father went to a seminary -- in explaining his support for same-sex marriage. "It was always about fundamental civil rights for everybody," Mr. Duffy said of his upbringing.
Calling the issue "a statement about New York in terms of what we stand for," the lieutenant governor put same-sex marriage alongside economic issues in their importance in determining New York's economic future. "We have a state that people flee because of high taxes; we have a state that people flee because of high regulations," he said. "We also have a state that people will flee if they are denied a basic right."
The lobbying effort comes just as Mr. Cuomo prepares to begin a statewide tour to campaign for his top legislative properties, which he has identified as a cap on property taxes, ethics reform and allowing gay couples to wed. The state Democratic party also announced Monday that the governor would place automated telephone calls to New Yorkers beginning this week, asking them to call their lawmakers and urge them to vote for legalizing same-sex marriage.
Some gay-rights leaders have previously questioned the depth of Mr. Cuomo's interest in issues like same-sex marriage. But advocates are counting on the governor's support to help win over Senate Republicans, whose unanimous opposition to same-sex marriage in the past has doomed legislation in Albany.
Ross D. Levi, the executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, the state's leading gay-rights organization, said he did not ask the governor's office why Mr. Cuomo decided to skip the rally.
"I don't think anyone could doubt the governor's support of this issue," Mr. Levi said. "He's literally going around the state; this is one of only three issues he's talking about. We're thrilled with his support for marriage equality."
Later Monday, in a radio appearance, Mr. Duffy said Mr. Cuomo's absence was not a big deal. "Nobody should read anything into this," he said.

        
Rochester Mayor to Be Cuomo's Running Mate
        
Court Upholds Recognition of Gay Marriages in Narrow Ruling
        
Gay Marriage Gets a Dutch Boost
        
Paterson on 'Guilt' And Gay Marriage
        
A Wedding in Canada, a Dust-Up in Poland

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LGBT RIGHTS (94%); MARRIAGE (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); COHABITATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); ETHICS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); RELIGION (54%) Andrew M. Cuomo; Gay Rights; Robert J. Duffy; same sex marriage; Cuomo, Andrew M; Duffy, Robert J; Politics and Government; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Empire State Pride Agenda; Albany; Government & Politics; Highlights

ORGANIZATION: Empire State Pride Agenda

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Duffy, Robert J

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



266 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Profiting From Osama, Dealing With the Dollar

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus, how do you tackle big problems? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
PROFITING FROM OSAMA Entrepreneurs are (of course) offering bin Laden specials. One example is a T-shirt inspired by Facebook: "Osama bin Laden Is Dead. 311,275,382 People Like This." President Bush (or someone who looks a lot like him) makes a statement. Ever wonder what our president was really doing in the situation room that night? (Oh, and the janitor was right after all.)
THE DOLLAR HITS A NEW LOW The dollar continues to slide and Scott Grannis says "with the Fed's latest data release, it's official: in inflation-adjusted and trade-weighted terms (arguably the best way to measure the dollar's true purchasing power overseas), the dollar is now weaker than it has ever been." Felix Salmon reports on the real reason for the dollar's decline: "Over the past 10 years or so, however, the need and desire for global savers to hold their wealth in dollars has been evaporating, and citizens around the world - not to mention their central banks - have been much more comfortable holding assets in their own domestic currencies, as well as the euro." In the Telegraph, Liam Halligan says America's reckless money printing could put the world back into crisis. 
HOW MUCH FOR A GALLON OF GAS? Stuart Staniford thinks high energy prices could mean another recession in the near future. Some rental car companies are charging those that don't return their cars with a full tank as much as $9.29 a gallon. In Philly, more people are running out of gas.
SALES ARE UP, STRESS IS DOWN, MISERY IS UP General Motors and Ford sales are up. Retailers have a strong April. March factory orders climb. ISM's manufacturing index is better than expected. The Restaurant Performance Index is back to 2007 levels. The Associated Press's monthly analysis of economic stress is at a three-month low. The service sector weakens a little. ADP reports an increase in private employment, but overall jobless claims jump to an eight-month high. The Misery Index under President Obama is at its highest since the early 1980's (but Michelle Obama is still dancing). Even so, a new Fedex survey says small businesses are more confident about their long-term success. But a Chamber of Commerce survey finds that nearly three quarters of American small-business owners believe that uncertainty in Washington is creating the largest impediment for growth in their businesses.
FREEBIES RULE Duncan Connor thinks we expect too much for free: "With the exception of very few things, we expect to be able to have access to the downloadable fruits of someone else's labor and not have to pay for it." David Murray explains how he gets a free Apple laptop every year. Bschool.com offers its 50 best tips for small businesses on Facebook. And here's what to do if you've stopped getting traffic from Google.
PLACES TO PROSPER Bill Gates advises that new solutions to fight global warming should be big, not cute. In Australia, local bike paths result in higher house prices. Small businesses are doing "mighty fine" on Staten Island. A study suggests that Wal-Mart kills off small businesses. The number of Asian-owned businesses increases 40 percent. Americans prefer domestic beer. According to Business Insider, these are the five industries driving American growth. TripAdvisor's No.1 destination in the United States is ...? Floods in Tennessee test the resolve of small (and large) business owners. How about a social media massage? Futurallia will be in Kansas City this year.
FOR THOSE DOING BUSINESS UP NORTH Quiz question of the week: can you name Canada's prime minister? Me neither. 
WAITER, CAN I HAVE SOME MORE FLY IN MY SOUP? Tech Crunch's Michael Arrington reports that Internet entrepreneurs are likely to peak at age 25: "Why? Because young entrepreneurs are more creative and imaginative, and are willing to put 100 percent of their lives into their start-ups." Cortera's upgraded app helps customers identify growth opportunities. Web site Tech Cocktail ranks the top 15 American start-up accelerators and incubators. A six-month old start-up raises $10 million. A little company has big plans for tiny chip technology. The University of Chicago awards $10,000 to a start-up that plans to market and produce insect meat as food. Harvard's new innovation lab has an inaugural director. Startup 2011 has an "awesome" lineup.
I'M JUST NOT PAYING ENOUGH TAXES The New York Times reports that American businesses have higher tax rates than businesses in other countries -- but pay less. Some small-business owners are demanding that the Bush tax cuts be repealed! A couple of hundred-year-olds decide to file jointly.
IS WARREN BUFFETT AN IDIOT? JP Morgan promotes 132 to managing director. Bank of America is the most small-business-friendly credit card company in the United States, according to a recent study. TD Bank opens its arms to small business. A study by Paynet says that small-business borrowing has cooled. Wait, wait, I mean it's actually increasing. Through grants, small tech firms put government tax dollars to work. James Altucher thinks Warren Buffett is the smartest idiot he knows, but he never bets "against a guy who has consistently made money for about 60 years in a row and has survived every crisis thrown at him." Stanford start-up mOasis wins $75,000 for water tech innovation. The fastest-growing start-up fund firm ever launched has already raised $6 billion.
FEMALE ENTREPRENEURS ARE UP, SERVICE IS DOWN Jim Tompkins, supply chain expert, says that rising food prices call for a thorough supply chain checkup: "Passing price hikes on to consumers and shrinking package sizes are limited tactics in today's marketplace. For long-term success, supply chain strategy is the best place to look." Jefferson Graham reports that many small businesses are finding office alternatives: In most U.S. workplaces only 45 percent of the staff come to the office on any given day, according to a director of workplace strategy with a design firm, and companies are looking for ways to adapt. Sabrina Parsons says that women are better than men at entrepreneurship. According to a new American Express survey, good customer service is still hard to find: "60 percent of Americans believe businesses haven't improved on providing good customer service, according to the survey, up from 55 percent in 2010. Among this group, 26 percent think companies are actually paying less attention to service." Thirty entrepreneurs list their favorite business books.
BEN AND JERRY ARE COVERED Vermont passes universal health care. An Oregon woman goes in for oral surgery -- and comes out Irish.
PAINFUL EXTRACTIONS Sony apologizes for its recent data breach and gives away freebies. Craft retailer Michael's warns of a customer data breach. Peter Suciu warns that Internet criminals are targeting smaller companies: "Attacks against small business have been on the rise since 2008, and according to a recent report from KnowBe4, in 2009 cyber criminals extracted nearly $400,000 from a Florida dentist's account!"
METRICS TO WATCH THIS WEEK Consumer (Friday) and Producer (Thursday) Price Indexes may show higher inflation. Weekly jobless claims on Thursday. Monthly budget and trade balances are released Wednesday.
THIS WEEK'S AWARDS
BEST REASON NOT TO TRUST ECONOMISTS John Tamney says we can't trust 99 percent of economists: "With its Ph.D.s having been late on, wrong about, or authors of nearly every unfortunate economic malady to hit the globe in recent years, it's fair to say that economists rival the only class of people who actually listen to them anymore -- politicians -- when it comes to public scorn."
COURAGEOUS BLOGGER OF THE WEEK Steve Tobak lists 10 careers that he thinks benefit nobody. For example, environmentalist: "It's not just global warming -- one of the biggest scams in history. Environmentalists destroy entire ecosystems to protect one endangered species. Every time they make a move to save one thing, they destroy far more. They muck with dozens of species to save a tiny flower or insect and create runaway forest fires that destroy millions of creatures."
BEST MANAGEMENT ADVICE Pamela Slim offers five steps to break a huge goal into testable bits. Example No. 3: "Choose a specific small test related to the big goal, and define the desired outcome. Time and time again, I see new entrepreneurs get stuck in the planning stage and think things have to be perfect in order to bring them to market. This will kill both your momentum and your spirit. To nip this momentum killer in the bud, choose a small thing to do that will get you moving in the real world."
THIS WEEK'S QUESTION: How do you tackle big problems? I usually take Ms. Slim's approach.
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: The Shutdown and the Showdown
        
This Week in Small Business: Democrats and Republicans Talk
        
This Week in Small Business: We're Watching Japan, Libya and Hugo Chavez
        
This Week in Small Business: Radiation, Inflation and Regulation
        
This Week in Small Business: Start-Ups Surge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); US DOLLAR (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); RECESSION (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (68%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (64%); RETAILERS (63%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (63%); RESTAURANTS (61%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; dashboard

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHELLE OBAMA (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



267 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: House Financial Services Committee Goes Digital

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The committee introduced a revamped Web site and a blog entitled The Bottom Line, saying, "We hope this blog will make people think." 

 BODY:
The financial crisis prompted Congress to offer a $700 billion banking bailout, a sweeping overhaul of financial regulations -- and now a blog. 
The House Financial Services Committee, which oversees Wall Street and its regulators, caught up with the digital age on Monday as it unveiled a revamped Web site and a blog entitled The Bottom Line.
The committee, controlled by Republicans, has high hopes for the blog: "We hope this blog will make people think," the committee said in its inaugural post. 
That's not all: "We hope this blog will make people want to read it."
So how's that going so far? DealBook has requested the opening day traffic numbers for the site. We will post the figures here -- if and when we receive them. 
The committee wants The Bottom Line to become a must read for journalists, Capitol Hill staff members, lobbyists, constituents and fellow politicians "who have interest in financial issues, but don't necessarily have the time to do the digging," the opening post said. 
Since the financial crisis, the committee's profile has risen in Washington and on Wall Street. 
When Democrats controlled Congress last year, the committee helped draft the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law. Now that Republicans control the House, the committee has become the center of efforts to undermine the Dodd-Frank Act and all its new rules for Wall Street. 
"The financial crisis and our country's ongoing economic struggles have placed a great emphasis on the work of the committee," Spencer Bachus, the Alabama Republican who heads the committee, said in a statement. "Our new Web site will help us engage Americans on the issues they care about and enhance our ability to keep them informed of the committee's work," he said. 
The blog will focus on mouse-scrolling topics like financial regulation, trends in the financial services industry and housing policy. Don't worry if that doesn't grab you; the committee promises that its site will be entertaining. 
"We believe that there is a need for clear, concise appraisals of policies and ideas as opposed to 'inside baseball' commentary," the opening blog post said. No matter the post, the committee has a simple goal for its blog: "We will try to entertain."
And don't expect the Congressional bloggers to bite their tongue. "We will blog about ideas and policies that we support and that we don't support," according to the post. 
A committee official told DealBook that staff members would aim to write a few blog posts a day, although the committee would not enforce a specific quota. 
The committee so far has posted three items, including the introductory note, a post entitled "How costly are the bailouts of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac?" and a link to Shelley Moore Capito, a Republican member of the committee, appearing on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Still, it's not all links and aggregation at The Bottom Line. The committee says it has a flair for the long-form piece as well. You can expect "short reaction pieces and longer thought pieces," according to the first post. 
House Financial Services 2.0 also dabbles in crowd-sourcing. The Web site features a widget known as YourWitness, which enables Americans to submit questions for committee members to ask witnesses at future hearings.
The YouComment portion of the site collects comments on pending legislation, while the aptly named You Blow The Whistle allows concerned citizens to report "waste, fraud and abuse taking place" at federal regulatory agencies. 
No word yet on whether you can send personal text messages to Mr. Bachus and the committee's ranking Democrat, Barney Frank of Massachusetts.

        
New Consumer Bureau Reaches Out to Wall Street
        
Last Stop in Congress for the Financial Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); WEB SITES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); WRITERS (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%) Barney Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; House Financial Services Committee; Spencer Bachus; Bachus, Spencer; Frank, Barney; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; United States Politics and Government; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%)

ORGANIZATION: House Financial Services Committee

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%)

PERSON: SPENCER BACHUS (89%); BARNEY FRANK (79%) Bachus, Spencer; Frank, Barney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



268 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Why Success Starts With Failure

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Society would be better off if it became comfortable with trial and error, argues the author of "Adapt," a new book.

 BODY:
Tim Harford is a columnist for The Financial Times and the author of "The Undercover Economist." He's part of the growing cadre of journalists who try to write about economics in plain English. His new book, "Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure," will be published this week. Our conversation follows.
Mr. Harford: What really grabbed my attention about this incident was not, "Healthy meals help kids concentrate in school" - it was, "Wow, it takes a campaign by a TV chef to find out something like this."
The research was carefully done by serious economists, but we could have more confidence in their findings if the project to improve school meals had been designed as an experiment. It wasn't; it was designed for a TV show. After it started, Tony Blair, the British prime minister at the time, was falling over himself to endorse it. Yet it was a simple idea that Blair's government could have tested out years before.
One of the main ideas of the book is that the world is full of interesting ideas that might help solve some of our big problems, but nobody really knows which of these ideas will work and which will fail. So policy makers, corporate leaders and social campaigners need to be much more open to all sorts of formal and informal experiments. Jamie Oliver created an accidental experiment. It would be nice if we spent a bit more energy doing this deliberately.
Mr. Harford: I look at lots of different examples -- military strategy; climate change policy; development aid; education and social policy at home; and support for innovation .
I think our system for promoting innovation, which is funded by a combination of government grants and private enterprise, struggles with large and adventurous projects, such as clean energy. The private sector is terrific at producing lots of experiments (just think of Silicon Valley) but not at funding expensive, long-term projects. Government grants can do that but are often rather risk-averse. One promising approach to get the best of both is innovation prizes. Another is to use a far more risk-loving system of grants.
In Iraq, we had a failing strategy and leaders who refused to listen to feedback from the men on the front line. It took a near rebellion from some brave colonels in Iraq to change the strategy. The U.S. military now seems to recognize that a successful post-Cold-War campaign is going to require the soldiers on the ground to improvise a lot more.
Of course we can't simply say, "Let's experiment more," because there are areas of the economy where experiments can go off the rails -- credit derivatives, anyone?
Mr. Harford: Here's the challenge: by its very nature, innovation requires a lot of exploration and a lot of blind alleys. Government agencies don't tend to be comfortable with that, so the private sector often makes the running. Even when an idea was initially government funded -- the Internet is a classic example -- it's taken the private sector to explore its potential.
But I'm not happy to leave this to the private sector alone, because modern innovations tend to require ever more money, larger teams and more specialists. The age of the lone inventor is long gone, and in important cases -- for instance, a smart energy grid, or nuclear fusion -- the private sector just doesn't have the money or the patience to pay for progress.
So this is fundamentally an organizational problem: how to harness the diversity of the private sector with the long-term funding of the public sector?
I see two promising approaches. One is to earmark more government research grants for high-risk projects. A fascinating research paper compares conservative medical research grants from the National Institutes of Health with more speculative grants from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The Hughes approach produces more failures but many more "big hits." Clearly, there's a balance to be struck.
A second approach is the use of innovation prizes. These have received increasing attention but there's potential to put up far larger prizes -- multibillion-dollar affairs.
Mr. Harford: There are several inspiring characters in the book, but I'd pick out Gen. H.R. McMaster, who in the spring of 2005 was a colonel in charge of operations near the Iraqi city of Tal Afar. He developed a new approach to fighting insurgents. It was successfully copied by other colonels and became an important inspiration for the "surge" of 2007.
What makes General McMaster's initiative amazing is that he had to shrug off every link in the chain of command above him. Remember that in 2005 Donald Rumsfeld didn't even want to hear the word "insurgent," so this was a career-threatening move, Many observers commented on the fact that he was repeatedly passed over for promotion.
I wanted to explore why he did it. Partly it was his academic background: McMaster was a historian who wrote a blistering account of the failures of leadership during the Vietnam War. And it was also his personal experience. McMaster captained a troop of tanks during the first Gulf war and won a celebrated victory -- the Battle of 73 Easting -- against Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard. Rather than resting on his laurels, McMaster argued that this battle -- a total surprise, in a sandstorm, with no air cover -- showed that the traditional satellite-guided air war had serious limitations. He argued that junior commanders on the ground would often be the ones called upon to adapt to local circumstances, and the military command structure had to acknowledge that.

        
Using Economics to Help the World's Poor
        
A Conversation With Tyler Cowen
        
The Bicycle Dividend
        
Making Choices 'as if the Future Matters'
        
'The Big Thirst': The Future of Water

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ARMED FORCES (69%); COLD WAR (69%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%) Book Chat; H.R. McMaster; innovation; Jamie Oliver; Obesity; random assignment; Social Impact Bonds; Tim Harford; Harford, Tim; Books and Literature; Economix

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (67%) Harford, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



269 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Obama's Bin Laden Bounce

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: A fairly straightforward case can be made that betting markets like Intrade are underestimating the political impact of Osama bin Laden's death on President Obama's re-election chances in 2012. 

 BODY:
A week after the news broke of the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, bettors at Intrade, a political futures market, are barely any more likely to think that President Obama will win re-election.
As of this writing, Mr. Obama's Democrats are given a 60.3 percent chance of winning next year's presidential election. By contrast, the day before Bin Laden was killed, the market's estimation of the Democrats' chances had been 59.7 percent. That's less than a full percentage point worth of improvement. Is this the appropriate reaction? 
The "bounce" in Mr. Obama's approval ratings has been fairly small - probably about 5 or 6 percentage points on average, although with some variability from survey to survey. I had been expecting a somewhat larger reaction.
At the same time, as I've repeatedly advised, the bounce is not necessarily the right lens through which to perceive the long-run electoral impact of the news.
The attraction of bounces is that they seem easy to quantify. Mr. Obama's approval rating in the Gallup tracking poll improved from 46 percent before the Bin Laden announcement to a peak of 52 percent, before ticking down to 51 percent, where it remains now. A few other things have been going on - the release of Mr. Obama's long-form birth certificate, the tornadoes in Alabama, various economic reports and so forth. But the Bin Laden coverage (rightly) has dominated the news, and there's no doubt that most of the movement in Mr. Obama's polling is attributable to it.
As time passes, however, the bounce will become blurrier, for two reasons. First, its magnitude will become smaller. And second, other events will intervene, and will either favorably or unfavorably affect Mr. Obama's numbers.
Perhaps if we were able to control for all the other factors, the bounce would look something like this:
That is, Mr. Obama's approval rating would initially spike by 5 or 6 percentage points, before gradually reverting back, after some weeks or months, to almost where it had been originally. But it would not quite come all the way back; instead, Mr. Obama would realize a small, but essentially permanent, 1-point gain in his approval rating.
Things won't look quite this neat in practice, however. Imagine, for example, that within the next couple of weeks, Greece defaults on its debt and this sets off a major, 2,000-point selloff in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. This negatively affects Mr. Obama's numbers. If so, the trajectory of his approval rating might look something like this:
If this scenario transpires, pundits will no doubt conclude that the "Bin Laden bounce" has been short-lived. What they can't know, however, is what Mr. Obama's numbers would have looked like had he not caught Bin Laden. Perhaps they'd be even worse still - and look something like the red line in the chart below. 
It's also possible that Mr. Obama will get some good news instead. Perhaps NATO forces will capture Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Perhaps he will "win" the confrontation with the Republicans over the federal debt ceiling. And then, once we reach the second half of the year, the economic figures come in a little stronger than expected. If so, the trajectory of his approval rating might look like this:
In this scenario, the conventional wisdom would be just the opposite. Killing Bin Laden would be regarded as the turning point of Mr. Obama's entire presidency, and the bounce would look as though it had never faded - when in reality, killing Bin Laden will have been a relatively minor factor, and Mr. Obama's approval rating would have been bound to improve with or without it:
Because of ambiguities like these, we're never going to have an exact idea of the impact of Bin Laden on Mr. Obama's re-election prospects. I'm not sure that we'll ever even have an inexact idea - there are too many other factors to untangle.
Nevertheless, I think a fairly straightforward case can be made that betting markets like Intrade are underestimating the political impact of Bin Laden's death. It goes something like this:
First, Americans think killing Bin Laden is a reasonably big deal.
Second, the vast majority of Americans give Obama at least some credit for having initiated the special forces mission that resulted in his death.
Third, foreign policy and national security issues do affect presidential voting decisions. Their impact will probably be muted in the 2012 election because of the focus on the economy, but that doesn't mean they'll have no impact at all.
Fourth, there is almost no American voter who will think worse of Mr. Obama for having killed Bin Laden. Nor is it likely that killing Bin Laden could boomerang around to hurt him. (It could, I suppose, set off a retaliatory terrorist attack, but it's not obvious what the electoral impact of that might be.) Electorally speaking, it represents pure upside.
Fifth and most importantly, small but permanent changes in Mr. Obama's approval rating could make a relatively large amount of difference in his re-election odds. 
I've hypothesized - and to be clear, this is just a guess - that killing Bin Laden might provide Mr. Obama with a permanent gain of one percentage point in his approval rating, which will be left over after the initial bounce fades. Since almost all people who approve of a president vote to re-elect him, this would increase Mr. Obama's share of the vote in November 2012 by one percentage point, while decreasing his Republican opponent's share by roughly the same margin.
In the 35 presidential elections since the Civil War, there have been 9 elections (1876, 1880, 1884, 1888, 1916, 1948, 1960, 1976, 2000) in which the losing candidate would have won the electoral vote had he received 1 percentage point more of the vote in each state, and his opponent 1 percentage point less. That's a pretty frequent occurrence - it's happened 26 percent of the time.
What this means is that if a presidential candidate were spotted an additional 1 percentage point "bonus" in each state at the expense of his opponent, he would win in the Electoral College an additional 13 percent of the time. (Why 13 percent and not 26 percent? Because among the close elections, the candidate is already on the winning side half the time, in which case the bonus votes would be superfluous.) 
Now, I don't mean to suggest that Mr. Obama's odds of winning re-election have improved by 13 percent. A formal model would need to be far more sophisticated than this. More importantly, the notion that Mr. Obama's approval ratings will enjoy a permanent one percentage point improvement is just a hypothetical.
But if the killing of Bin Laden produces any lasting impact on Mr. Obama's approval rating at all - 2 percentage points, 1 point, even half a point - that translates into a relatively material improvement in his re-election odds, considerably more than the mere decimal-point increase that bettors at Intrade have posited. Unless those bettors are quite certain that the news about Bin Laden will have almost literally no long-term effect, they were either overvaluing Mr. Obama's stock before or are undervaluing it now.

        
Media's Spotlight Shines Less Brightly on Palin
        
The Talented Mr. Romney
        
Poll Finds Tentative Support, Potential Risks for Obama on Libya
        
Palin's Popularity Declines Among Republicans
        
There's Nothing Special About Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FUTURES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (64%) 2012; 2012 elections; barack obama; Democratic Party; Intrade; Osama bin Laden; Presidential Election of 2012; bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Intrade

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (95%); BARACK OBAMA (94%) bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



270 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: More Than a Rsum

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Having a Community Organizer-in-Chief in the White House turned out to be an asset after all. 

 BODY:
You must remember this: "He worked as a community organizer."
Rudolph Giuliani paused to choke on the words in his speech at the 2008 Republican convention, followed by a gasp, waves of laughter and more ridicule.
It became a punch line, the part of Barack Obama's resume that had him working with Roman Catholic parishes on Chicago's South Side to help the unemployed. The kicker was delivered by Sarah Palin when she touted her own credentials. "I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a community organizer except that you have actual responsibilities."
On paper, the war hero with decades of political experience is far more qualified to make life-and-death decisions than a candidate yet to be scuffed by conflict. "You're hiring someone to do a job," said Giuliani, in framing the choice that year, "a job that has to do with the safety of your family."
Turns out, having a community organizer in the White House Situation Room was not a bad thing. Perhaps better than a senator who was afraid to offend an ally. And surely better than a governor who couldn't even finish her one job with actual responsibilities. Among other things, the most critical 40 minutes of the Obama presidency prove a point backed by history: judgment and temperament are far more important than a resume.
Harry S. Truman was ridiculed as a haberdasher - a wonderful old word that fell out of use as men's clothiers gave way to big-box retailers. He was also the only 20th-century American president without a college degree.
Yet Truman finished the war against Nazi Germany and imperial Japan and oversaw plans that got Europe back on its feet. He racially integrated the armed forces by executive order. History has been kind to him. And, by the way, he was a failed haberdasher at that; his store went bankrupt.
Ronald Reagan, that B-list actor - what could he know about running the most powerful nation in the world? Instinctively, he knew enough to make peace with a cold war adversary at the right moment rather than push him into a nuclear corner.
It was the most seasoned of Democrats, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who initially raised doubts about whether Americans could count on an untested Barack Obama to answer the dreaded 3 a.m. phone call.
And this theme continued in the general election when Senator John McCain pummeled Obama for saying he would go into Pakistan to take out Osama bin Laden, diplomatic formalities be damned. "Will we risk the confused leadership of an inexperienced candidate who once suggested bombing our ally, Pakistan?" asked McCain.
To their credit, both Giuliani and McCain have since been gracious in commending Obama on his order to get the world's most wanted mass killer. Giuliani even toured ground zero with the president on Thursday, looking mighty pleased to be with the former community organizer in his moment of triumph.
Other Republicans - not so good. Newt Gingrich, just to pick a paragon of bad judgment out of the hat, is a college term paper on how a resume does not make a leader. Gingrich, who is officially, formally, finally, and forever announcing that he is sort of, kind of, maybe, oh-what-hell-why-not running for president on Wednesday, had an interesting take on the airstrikes in Libya.
First, he criticized President Obama for not imposing a no-fly zone. Then he hit him for imposing a no-fly zone. In two weeks' time, he went from saying he would intervene "this evening" to saying, "I would not have intervened."
Just before the worst oil spill in history, he started a campaign to unfetter the oil industry, with the slogan, "Drill here, drill now."
For historical perspective, Gingrich said President Obama and the Democrats pose "as great a threat to America as Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union." This was in one of his books, a product of deliberative phrasing, not some word spasm for the birther set. Imagine that temperament in the Situation Room.
There's no telling, really, if Obama's time trying to help people with rental leases and job applications did him any good in the hunt for Bin Laden. As president, he has shown himself to be a thoughtful ditherer, someone who encourages opposing views, even when others are clamoring for him to Do Something Now! In this case, it was nine months of containing the biggest secret in the world that ended with one of "the longest 40 minutes of my life,"an operation he thought had only a 55 percent chance of succeeding.
But the man who walked out of the Situation Room with the words "We got him" showed that he had learned, somewhere, that patience can pay off. No doubt, those many thankless days with the South Side poor were instructive.
This column appeared in print on May 10, 2011. 

        
The Power in a Photo
        
The Nutsiness of Politics
        
Do You Miss Him Yet?
        
Weekend Opinionator: Sotomayor, Race and the Right
        
Whose Budget is Bigger?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (86%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); COLD WAR (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); MAYORS (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); RETAILERS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); RELIGION (56%); MEN'S CLOTHING (50%) barack obama; newt gingrich; osama bin laden; sarah palin; bin Laden, Osama; Gingrich, Newt; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah; Timothy Egan

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); SARAH PALIN (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%) bin Laden, Osama; Gingrich, Newt; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



271 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Press Boehner on Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: Hours before Speaker John A. Boehner was to make a speech on the economy, Democrats pressed him to assure Wall Street that Republicans would raise the federal debt ceiling this summer. 

 BODY:
With Speaker John A. Boehner preparing to deliver a major economic speech in New York on Monday night, Democrats raced to get out in front of the talk by pressing Mr. Boehner to assure members of the financial community that Republicans would raise the federal debt ceiling this summer.
"The idea of refusing to raise the debt ceiling should be taken off the table," Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat in the Senate, said in an early afternoon conference call with reporters in advance of Mr. Boehner's speech to the Economic Club of New York.
However, Mr. Boehner and other Congressional Republicans have been aggressive in portraying the debt ceiling vote as one that gives them significant leverage with Senate Democrats and President Obama, and they have threatened not to back an increase without significant new spending cuts and budget restrictions. 
Mr. Schumer and Roger Altman, an investment banker who served as deputy treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, painted a worrisome picture of what would happen if the federal government failed to meet its financial obligations for the first time in history, with Mr. Altman noting that even a brief default could have lasting consequences. They said the economic harm would be much greater than the threatened government shutdown earlier this year.
"There is no saying, 'Sorry, I didn't mean it,'" Mr. Altman said, saying that the "sound and necessary step for all of our leaders is to renounce default."
"The business community and the finance community are quite united on this point because they know the downside and know the foolishness of trifling with it," he said.
They also warned that nervous credit markets could begin to respond to the debt limit fight well before the early August deadline now set by the Treasury Department.
"We ought to have plenty of breathing room," Mr. Schumer said. "If nothing is happening by July 15 or so, the markets are going to get really, really worried. The sooner the better."
Mr. Boehner, who also has some political events in New York, is expected to use the speech to lay out his approach to raising the debt limit. He faces a delicate balance in assuring the financial leaders that while Republicans are interested in winning fiscal changes, they also do not want to roil the markets.

        
With Barbour Out, Hill Republicans Lose Big Voice in Budget Battles
        
Obama: Debt Increase Will Require Republican Votes
        
Obama Seeks to Reshape Debate Over Debt
        
Cantor Says House Won't Raise Debt Limit 'Without Serious Cuts'
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) debt ceiling; Congress

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); ROGER ALTMAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



272 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Donnelly to Run for Senate in Indiana

BYLINE: MICAHEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Representative Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, announces that he will run for the Senate seat held by Richard G. Lugar. 

 BODY:
Representative Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, announced Monday that he would run for the Senate, declaring, "I want to take the fight for American jobs and opportunity to the United States Senate."
Mr. Donnelly, who has been in the House since 2007, is hoping to capitalize on dissension among Republicans in the state. He is running for the seat held by Richard G. Lugar, a six-term Republican who faces a primary challenge from the state treasurer, Richard Mourdock, a favorite of the Tea Party movement.
In a statement to supporters, Mr. Donnelly said, "If you believe, like I do, that the key to America's greatness is not big promises, but old-fashioned hard work and a commitment to putting our government back on the side of Hoosier families, then I hope you'll join us." 
Brian Walsh, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said in a statement this weekend that Mr. Donnelly had been "a partisan rubber stamp" for Democrats in Washington.
"Just months after voters overwhelmingly rejected Brad Ellsworth's liberal policies, Joe Donnelly wants to sell Hoosiers on that exact same big-spending, job-killing Washington agenda," Mr. Walsh said. "We welcome him into the race."
So far, Mr. Donnelly is the only Democrat to jump into the race. Senator Patty Murray of Washington, chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said in a statement that he would make Indiana "a great pick-up opportunity" for Democrats.
"He is a strong candidate who knows how to beat the odds and win tough campaigns," Ms. Murray said. "Most importantly, Joe is exactly the kind of tireless fighter Indiana families need to rebuild the state's economy, create jobs and get Hoosiers back to work."

        
Bush Aides Walk Delicate Line on Bin Laden
        
New Groups Form to Raise Millions for Democrats
        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles
        
Obama Seeks to Reshape Debate Over Debt
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; joe donnelly; Republicans; richard lugar; Senate; Donnelly, Joe; Lugar, Richard G; Indiana; Congress; Elections

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: JOE DONNELLY (96%); DICK LUGAR (92%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (59%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Donnelly, Joe; Lugar, Richard G

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (97%) Indiana

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



273 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Dodd-Frank Dissenters Sound Off

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: At a conference, some in the banking industry had little good to say about the Dodd-Frank legislation meant to keep banks from failing. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The irony was thick.
Alan Schwartz, the former chief executive of Bear Stearns who oversaw its near-demise and subsequent government-aided rescue, was here at Michael Milken's annual conference - a West Coast version of Davos for financiers - moderating a panel last week about whether the Dodd-Frank Act had ended "too big to fail."
Ever since the legislation was passed, we have heard repeatedly from Washington mouthpieces that the new law will help keep us from having to bail out our biggest banks in the next crisis. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently published a paper describing how its new resolution authority would have avoided the wreckage of Lehman Brothers' collapse if it had the powers at the time.
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, one of the biggest banks in the nation, regularly argues that there is no need to break up banks; the new legislation, he says, will prevent a cascading effect from the failure of a large bank because the government will be able take it over and unwind it in an orderly way.
So it was with some dismay to hear the opposite view from Mr. Schwartz's panel of "experts": Raymond W. McDaniel Jr., chief executive of Moody's, called the legislation "probably not workable." Jim Millstein, the former chief restructuring officer of the Treasury Department who oversaw the bailout of the American International Group and whose boss, Timothy F. Geithner, helped draft the rules, declared, "I think it's got deep flaws."
Thomas J. Wilson , chairman of Allstate and deputy chairman, of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said the new law "creates more uncertainty rather than certainty." And Ken Griffin, founder of the $15 billion hedge fund Citadel Investment Group, went the furthest by proclaiming that not only would the legislation not work as proposed, but it is "going to deeply entrench crony capitalism into the very fabric of our financial system, which I am terrified about."
It is worth listening to these gentleman. (The Milken Institute has made a video of the panel available online. For the finance obsessives among us, it is riveting.)
While the debate over Too Big to Fail seems to have lost steam, it shouldn't. Listening to this group, it is clear that there will be another financial crisis - and possibly sooner than we expect.
When a crisis does emerge, we will have to test, in real time, the practicality of the Dodd-Frank legislation, which gives the government the right to take over a faltering bank - before it falters, it is hoped. It is our last line of defense.
But Mr. Griffin has a very different take on the matter: To him, the government "literally will come in and say that we are going to liquidate your institution without you having had filed for bankruptcy. It's an involuntary proceeding," he said, noting that there will be "little in the way judicial oversight."
He continued: "The F.D.I.C. then says here are the creditors who we are going to protect out of the gate and make whole to one degree or another, and then here are the creditors who are not going to make whole out of the gate."
What does all this mean? According to Mr. Griffin, "this means that companies that are connected to Washington, that curry political favor, will be favored at the expense of companies that do not have their business model revolve around appeasing politicians and making campaign contributions."
In other words, the process of the government trying to take over a large failing bank - and how creditors will ultimately be dealt with - could actually add to uncertainty in the midst of the crisis when we can least afford it.
"As soon as you institute an insolvency proceeding for a financial institution, if they haven't run before it started they're going to think about running very quickly," Mr. Millstein said.
"I think it could actually accelerate people's demise rather than stop it," Mr. Wilson added.
Even with a government guarantee, Mr. Millstein said he expected that the next time there is a crisis, it is unlikely "anybody is going to buy an insurance policy from an F.D.I.C. bridge company that's holding the assets of A.I.G. or anyone else who is lucky enough to be put into these proceedings."
So how do we avoid the next banking crisis?
Unfortunately, the answer is complicated and is structural - it requires much more than a simple provision of legislation. It requires rewriting the rules of much of the industry.
"Every bank in the United States has an F.D.I.C. guarantee on the front door, and they're more than happy to enjoy the economic rents that go with the taxpayer subsidy relating to that guarantee," Mr. Griffin said. "The governments guarantee should be limited to very narrow risk taking activities. High quality consumer loans, high quality mortgages, high quality corporate loans. We should keep those parts of our financial systems walled off from that part of our financial system that revolves around aggressive risk taking."
All of that may be true - and ultimately may be the only way to save ourselves from the next perfect storm. But it requires convincing people like Mr. Wilson, who has a powerful voice at the Fed and who made an argument that created quite a stir in the hallways after the presentation.
"Our financial system in America is the envy of the world," he said. "We have more skills, capabilities, infrastructure, data than anybody else and people love it and all of a sudden we've sort of turned into it's like a terrible thing - like we should bust it all up into small little pieces and have a bunch of little companies doing it. It doesn't make any sense to me."
"With that comes a risk of some giant companies having a problem," he said, explaining that it is a "the tail event" - as in a low-risk probability - " and you don't run your life around a tail event."
"You're flying home from here," he said, suggesting that you wouldn't "take the train home" simply our of fear. That may be true. But there is a reason planes rarely go down: strict government regulation.

        
As Wall St. Firms Grow, Their Reputations Are Dying
        
Vows of Change at Moody's, but Flaws Remain the Same

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Alan Schwartz; Allstate; American International Group; Bear Stearns; Citadel Investment Group; Dodd-Frank Act; Financial Crisis; Jamie Dimon; Jim Millstein; JPMorgan Chase &; Kenneth Griffin; Milken Institute; Moody's; Raymond W. McDaniel; Thomas J. Wilson; Too Big to Fail; Dimon, James; McDaniel, Raymond W Jr; Schwartz, Alan D; Wilson, Thomas J; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (53%); ALLSTATE CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Citadel Investment Group; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); ALL (NYSE) (53%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%); THOMAS J WILSON (89%); RAYMOND MCDANIEL (89%); MICHAEL MILKEN (72%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%) Dimon, James; McDaniel, Raymond W Jr; Schwartz, Alan D; Wilson, Thomas J

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) WEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



274 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Stay-at-Home Moms and the Need for Credit

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: New rules will make it hard for stay-at-home spouses to get credit in their own name. 

 BODY:
If you are a stay-at-home mom (or dad) and want a credit card, you should consider applying for one, pronto. A pending change in the way card companies must evaluate applications will probably make it much harder for people who don't have their own, independent income to get one.
As part of a clarification of the Credit Card Act of 2009, the Federal Reserve board has made it tougher for stay-at-home spouses to get their own credit cards. (Discussions of the Fed's rule can be found in U.S. News & World Report's Alpha Consumer blog, and on creditcards.com.)
The Card Act has many provisions that help protect consumers, like requiring credit card companies to give you advance notice before slapping you with a double-digit penalty interest rate. But in its final comments on the law, published earlier this year, the Fed told credit card companies that they must consider "individual" income, not "household" income, on credit applications. That means that in most situations, a nonworking spouse won't be able to obtain credit based on their husband's or wife's income, as they can now.
In explaining why this is O.K., the Fed said it believed "married women who do not work outside the home" will still have access to credit because they can apply for joint accounts with their husbands, or become authorized users on their husband's accounts. The board did concede that applying jointly might be "inconvenient or impracticable" in some situations, like applying for on-the-spot credit at a retail store. But the move is necessary, the Fed said, to make sure the person holding the card can actually pay the bill.
The problem is that nonworking parents do have the ability to pay, through their spouse's income. (And anyone who has children knows full well that he or she is working - they're just not getting a paycheck.)
All this struck a nerve with me recently, because of a problem that arose with an account I hold with my husband. A few years back, he got a new credit card so he could rack up frequent-flier miles. Even though I was working full time and had my own set of plastic, he got a "companion" card for me, so we could pool our spending and earn miles faster. I've used it often, without thinking much about it.
Until last week, that is. I had a question about a statement fee and called the card company - only to be told that the assistant couldn't discuss it with me without first obtaining my husband's permission.
I was speechless. I began supporting myself financially in my early 20s. I have my own credit history and credit score. Yet, I was being told that I couldn't be taken seriously without a say so from a man (albeit, one of whom I'm exceedingly fond). It felt like a scene from the "Mad Men" era.
When I insisted, the representative partly addressed my question, but said a full review would require spousal approval. For me, the incident provided a good laugh and an anecdote for a blog post. But for an at-home mom in, say, a deteriorating or possibly even abusive relationship, it could be devastating. Forcing such women to piggyback on a husband's account means that she is still subject, to an uncomfortable degree, to his oversight - which strikes me as an unhealthy step backwards on the long, hard-fought road to gender equality.
Card companies must comply with the law on Oct. 1, but they can begin enforcing it before then if they choose.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a New York Democrat and an author of the Card Act, has said the Fed's rule exceeds the law's intent. Originally, strict "ability to pay" restrictions were meant only for applicants under 21, to help prevent college students and other young people from getting into debt. She and three other members of Congress have asked the Fed, along with the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to study the new standard for six months after it is adopted, and to make changes if it turns up any negative effects on stay-at-home spouses.
"We are sure the board understands that it was never the intention of Congress that there would be any impact on stay-at-home spouses, " the letter says, "and that we should make sure that that is in fact the case."
A lawyer from the Fed's Division of Consumer & Community Affairs wasn't immediately available to comment.
What do you think about the rule? Should nonworking spouses be able to obtain credit in their name alone?

        
Troubled Employers and Your Company Charge Card
        
Big Changes to American Express's Blue Cash Card
        
Forget Frugality: Focus on Earning More
        
Secured Credit Cards: Not Everyone Qualifies
        
All About Your Unused Rewards Points

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); MARRIAGE (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); RETAILERS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (64%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Credit Cards; Maloney, Carolyn B; Credit and Debt; Federal Reserve System; United States

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (74%) Maloney, Carolyn B

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



275 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2115 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Hertz Makes $2.24 Billion Bid For Dollar Thrifty | Hertz Global Holdings offered $72 a share for the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, trumping a deal with Avis that is awaiting regulatory approval.
Hertz approached Dollar Thrifty last year but shareholders of Dollar Thrifty quickly rejected the overture, paving the way for a deal with the Avis Budget Group. That deal has remained in limbo as the two companies await regulatory approval from the Federal Trade Commission.
Hertz's cash-and-stock offer represents a 24 percent premium to the deal with Avis. It is also 26 percent more than Dollar Thrifty's 90-day average stock price.
DealBook
Insider Trading Cases Stain Hedge Fund Manager's Reputation | Federal prosecutors are examining trades made in an account run by Steven A. Cohen at SAC Capital Advisors, his hedge fund in Stamford, Conn., according to a government filing. The trades were suggested by two SAC portfolio managers who have since pleaded guilty to crimes related to insider trading.
The charges are part of a vast investigation into insider trading at hedge funds by the United States attorney in Manhattan. The inquiry has resulted in criminal cases against at least 47 people in the last two years.
For years, Mr. Cohen's firm has been beset by persistent whispers of a cowboy culture that often walked up to the legal line, if not over it, while generating stupefying returns, minting scores of millionaire traders and making Mr. Cohen a billionaire many times over. Mr. Cohen has not been accused of any criminal wrongdoing.
DEALBOOK
DEAL NOTES
The Prince of Lord & Taylor | Anyone who thought Richard A. Baker was getting in over his head when he bought Lord & Taylor and the Hudson's Bay Company must be reconsidering.DealBook
No Recession in C.E.O. Pay | The leaders of the largest American corporations saw their paychecks swell in 2010, as stronger profit and higher share prices drove greater bonuses and stock grants.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
News Corp.'s Interest in Formula One Raises Alarms | The Murdochs are prepared to spend a lot of time and money to put Formula One racing on BSkyB, as well as on other pay-TV outlets owned or affiliated with the News Corporation, Eric Pfanner writes in The New York Time.NEW YORK TIMES
Alkermes to Merge With Irish Drug Business | Alkermes, an American biotechnology company, said on Monday that it would merge with Elan Drug Technologies in a cash-and-stock deal worth $960 million.DealBook
Heineken Said to Weigh Bid for Brazilian Brewer | Heineken is going through the books of Primo Schincariol Industria de Cervejas e Refrigerantes, Brazil's second-largest brewer behind Anheuser-Busch InBev, Bloomberg News reported.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Allianz Takeover of Swiss Life Ruled Out | The insurer Swiss Life is unlikely to become the target of a takeover bid, particularly by Allianz of Germany, Swiss Life's chief executive, Bruno Pfister, told a Swiss newspaper on Sunday.REUTERS
NYSE Euronext Investors Bide Their Time | Investors hoping to profit from competing bids for NYSE Euronext are holding back on building larger positions until a July shareholder vote on its merger agreement with Deutsche Borse draws closer, The Financial Times reported.FINANCIAL TIMES
Elliott Holds 10% of Danisco | Elliott Advisors has raised its stake to just over 10 percent, according to Danisco, the food ingredient firm for which DuPont has bid about $6.4 billion. DuPont needs 80 percent of the firm for its bid to go through.PRESS RELEASE
Rank Rejects Guoco's Takeover Bid | The bingo hall and casino operator Rank Group has advised shareholders to reject a 150 pence a share takeover bid from the Guoco Group, its largest investor, saying it undervalues the company.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Barclays Readies $1.6 Billion for Insurance Claims | Barclays and other British banks said on Monday that they would not challenge a court decision requiring them to compensate customers who received wrong advice when buying some personal insurance.DealBook
HSBC Profit Up 58% | HSBC said on Monday that profit rose 58 percent in the first quarter after the quality of its loan portfolio improved.DealBook | Barclays Readies $1.6 Billion for Insurance Claims 4:18 AM ET
UBS to Miss the Mark? | UBS bankers have privately conceded that the Swiss financial services group is unlikely to meet ambitious performance targets as it realigns its business in response to new rules on capital, The Financial Times reported.FINANCIAL TIMES
JPMorgan in Talks to Settle S.E.C. Inquiry Into Securities | JPMorgan Chase is in negotiations to resolve its role in a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into how mortgage-linked securities were packaged and sold as the housing market came apart.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Commodity Slump May Be Good News for Goldman | The commodities rout that knocked off $99 billion of market value last week is driving out speculators and leading Goldman Sachs, which forecast the plunge, to predict a possible recovery.BLOOMBERG NEWS
China Banks Must Restrict 'Shadowing' Activities, Regulator Says | Chinese banks must restrict "shadowing" activities and bring off-balance-sheet trust loans back onto their books to help ward off possible risk, the country's top banking regulator said on Monday.REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Spotless Passes on $707 Million Private Equity Offer | The Spotless Group of Australia has rejected a buyout bid, reportedly made by the Blackstone Group, saying the cash offer of 2.50 Australian dollars a share did not "reflect the fundamental value of the company in the context of a change of control." Spotless provides maintenance and cleaning services.REUTERS | BUSINESS SPECTATOR | PRESS RELEASE
Redflex Shareholders Reject Private Equity Bid | Macquarie and the private equity group Carlyle endured a defeat on Monday morning when shareholders voted to reject their $305 million bid for the Australian company Redflex.SYDNEY MORNING HERALD
TPG Said to Seek Asia Chairman | TPG Capital is seeking a chairman for its Asian operations to help it compete for investments in China, Bloomberg News reported.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Shanghai Approves Investors for Private Equity Program | The Shanghai government has approved five private equity firms, including the Blackstone Group, the Carlyle Group and DT Capital Partners, for a pilot program that would allow foreign investors to convert a preapproved amount of dollars to local currency to make domestic investments, Dow Jones reported.DOW JONES
HEDGE FUNDS 
Drop in Oil Prices Hits Hedge Funds | Even the brightest investors were hurt last week by the drop in oil price, with Clive Capital , the world's biggest commodity hedge fund, experiencing a $400 million loss.FINANCIAL TIMES
Top Mets Bidder Would Likely Draw Scrutiny | Steven A. Cohen would make for an intriguing and perhaps challenging addition to the ranks of Major League Baseball owners.NEW YORK TIMES
National Express Is Said to Be Close to Deal With Elliott | The potential truce would involve Elliott Advisors agreeing not to agitate publicly for 12 months in return for Chris Muntwyler and two other international nonexecutive directors joining the National Express board, The Telegraph reported.TELEGRAPH | INDEPENDENT
Singer of Elliott Management Rails Against Dodd-Frank | Paul Singer, the founder of Elliott Management, considers the Dodd-Frank Act, especially its attempts to identify which institutions could pose systemic risk to the financial markets, "entirely nutty."
Wall Street Journal
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Trouble on Renren's Horizon? | Mark Zuckerberg should not lose too much sleep about China's equivalent of Facebook beating him to Wall Street, William Pesek writes for Bloomberg News.
Renren investors are paying a huge premium for future spoils, and assuming that China will grow 10 percent indefinitely. To do that, the country will have to upgrade its economic software, Mr. Pesek writes.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Offering for Angry Birds Creator Is Years Away, Executive Says | Rovio, the developer of the Angry Birds mobile game, could see itself going public in three to four years, its chief marketing officer told Kauppalehti, the Finnish business daily.REUTERS
Tech Stocks May Become an Unlikely Haven | For the most part, investors have been so focused on the excellent performance of individual companies that they have been willing to overlook the threats facing the stock market as a whole. But with first-quarter earnings season nearing an end, "the market will refocus from the micro- to the macroeconomic picture," with technology stocks likely to benefit.NEW YORK TIMES
Nordic Capital to List FinnvedenBulten | The Swedish auto parts maker FinnvedenBulten and its private equity owner said on Sunday that an application had been made to list the company's shares on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, in an offering that could raise as much as 605 million Swedish kronor ($97 million).DOW JONES
Downturn Sees Power Shift to Glencore Investors | European mutual fund managers sense an opportunity to drive down the price of Glencore International's bumper $11 billion listing, as fear of slowing global economic growth rattles commodity markets.REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
The Class That Built Apps -- and Fortunes | All right, class, here is your homework assignment: Devise an app. Get people to use it. Repeat.That was the task for some Stanford students in the fall of 2007, in what became known here as the Facebook Class.No one expected what happened next.NEW YORK TIMES
European Ventures Seek to Fill a Void in World News | As news organizations around the world close down foreign bureaus, journalists, entrepreneurs and even government bodies in Europe are looking to fill underserved journalistic niches, develop new business models and tap financing from new sources.NEW YORK TIMES
Stars Gain Control of Online Images | A company called WhoSay -- a little-known start-up with a clientele that is anything but little known -- offers content services for social media, and grants full ownership rights to the celebrities.NEW YORK TIMES
ECI Partners Revs Up Deal for CarTrawler | The British private equity firm ECI Partners has agreed to pay 40 million to 50 million euros for a 50 percent stake in CarTrawler, a provider of online car rental distribution systems based in Dublin.FINANCIAL TIMES
Internet Boom 2.0 Is Here | The latest frenzy bears some of the hallmarks of the previous Web investment craze -- exuberance over "concept" start-ups that do not have operating Web sites and intense competition among potential backers to place bets in presumptive hot spots like the social media space now defined by Facebook, LinkedIn and others.REUTERS
Running for Mayor in the Bay Area | As she campaigns to be elected San Francisco's next mayor, Joanna Rees, a moderately successful venture capitalist, is determined to prove that the seemingly immutable laws of local politics -- namely that candidates from the technology elite have a hard time getting elected -- do not apply to her.BAY CITIZEN
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
The High Price of Internal Inquiries | Avon Products could easily spend $250 million on legal costs for an internal investigation of whether its employees violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.DealBook
Hartenstein Takes Over at Tribune | The Chicago Tribune, which filed for bankruptcy in 2008 just months after it was purchased by the entrepreneur Sam Zell, has announced the appointment of a new president and chief executive, Eddy Hartenstein, the publisher and chief executive of The Los Angeles Times.MEDIA DECODER
Response to Volatility in Silver Takes Hold | Worried about the soaring prices of commodities, exchange officials are raising the collateral needed to guarantee trades.NEW YORK TIMES
Mexico Takes Aim at Telecom Titan | Recent moves by Mexican authorities are threatening to chip away at the dominance of Carlos Slim Helu's telecommunications empire.NEW YORK TIMES
Moving the Goal Posts on Pay | Wal-Mart's compensation committee says it has replaced a crucial metric for assessing executive performance: same-store sales, referring to stores that have been open for at least a year. Instead of that measure, Wal-Mart is using total sales companywide, or at its major units, Wal-Mart Stores and Sam's Club. The question is, why?NEW YORK TIMES
Heeding Say on Pay | Companies that ignore say-on-pay votes may pay a hefty price: lawsuits.REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FORMULA ONE RACING (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (56%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (94%); HUDSON'S BAY CO (65%); NEWS CORP (64%); PRIMO SCHINCARIOL INDUSTRIA DE CERVEJAS & REFRIGERANTES S/A (60%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (60%); DOLLAR THRIFTY AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (58%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (57%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (51%); ALKERMES PLC (51%); ALLIANZ SE (50%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (94%); HBC (TSX) (65%); NWS (NASDAQ) (64%); NWS (ASX) (64%); BUD (NYSE) (60%); ABI (BRU) (60%); CAR (NASDAQ) (57%); BSY (LSE) (51%); ALKS (NASDAQ) (51%); ALV (FRA) (50%); ALV (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (94%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (94%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (94%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (94%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (65%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (65%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (65%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (65%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (60%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (60%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (57%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



276 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: HSBC, Cautious, Reports That Its Profit Surged 58%

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
4:44 p.m. Updated
HSBC said on Monday that profit rose 58 percent in the first quarter after the quality of its loan portfolio improved.
Net income rose to $4.2 billion, from $2.6 billion in the period a year earlier, while charges for bad loans fell to $2.4 billion, from $3.8 billion. Profit at its investment banking unit fell. 
Stuart T. Gulliver, the bank's chief executive, is scheduled to present a strategy overhaul to investors on Wednesday, including plans to reduce costs. Mr. Gulliver said on Monday that HSBC expected economic growth to slow this year from 2010.
''There remain a number of risks to the global recovery cycle in the short term,'' Mr. Gulliver said in a statement. ''In the developed world, higher oil and food prices may slow the pace of recovery, while in emerging markets, higher inflation is dampening consumer sentiment.''
Earnings in Hong Kong and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region continued to grow in the first quarter even as the bank, which is based in London, spent more on employees and marketing. HSBC does not report more detailed quarterly profit figures.
HSBC continued to reduce its consumer finance portfolio in the United States, and lending at its credit card business fell, the bank said. As a result, charges on bad loans fell by 30 percent. The business in North America remained profitable, but that profit fell 60 percent.
In Britain, HSBC set aside $440 million to cover possible claims by some customers that the bank had wrongly sold them a type of loan insurance. The step came after a British court ruled that several banks, including HSBC, were responsible for compensating customers. Barclays and the Lloyds Banking Group also made provision for such costs.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INFLATION (70%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); FOOD PRICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED KINGDOM (86%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



277 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: The Missing Fifth

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In 1910, Henry Van Dyke wrote a book called ''The Spirit of America,'' which opened with this sentence: ''The Spirit of America is best known in Europe by one of its qualities -- energy.''
This has always been true. Americans have always been known for their manic dynamism. Some condemned this ambition as a grubby scrambling after money. Others saw it in loftier terms. But energy has always been the country's saving feature. 
So Americans should be especially alert to signs that the country is becoming less vital and industrious. One of those signs comes to us from the labor market. As my colleague David Leonhardt pointed out recently, in 1954, about 96 percent of American men between the ages of 25 and 54 worked. Today that number is around 80 percent. One-fifth of all men in their prime working ages are not getting up and going to work.
According to figures from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the United States has a smaller share of prime age men in the work force than any other G-7 nation. The number of Americans on the permanent disability rolls, meanwhile, has steadily increased. Ten years ago, 5 million Americans collected a federal disability benefit. Now 8.2 million do. That costs taxpayers $115 billion a year, or about $1,500 per household. Government actuaries predict that the trust fund that pays for these benefits will run out of money within seven years.
Part of the problem has to do with human capital. More American men lack the emotional and professional skills they would need to contribute. According to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 35 percent of those without a high school diploma are out of the labor force, compared with less than 10 percent of those with a college degree.
Part of the problem has to do with structural changes in the economy. Sectors like government, health care and leisure have been growing, generating jobs for college grads. Sectors like manufacturing, agriculture and energy have been getting more productive, but they have not been generating more jobs. Instead, companies are using machines or foreign workers.
The result is this: There are probably more idle men now than at any time since the Great Depression, and this time the problem is mostly structural, not cyclical. These men will find it hard to attract spouses. Many will pick up habits that have a corrosive cultural influence on those around them. The country will not benefit from their potential abilities.
This is a big problem. It can't be addressed through the sort of short-term Keynesian stimulus some on the left are still fantasizing about. It can't be solved by simply reducing the size of government, as some on the right imagine.
It will probably require a broad menu of policies attacking the problem all at once: expanding community colleges and online learning; changing the corporate tax code and labor market rules to stimulate investment; adopting German-style labor market practices like apprenticeship programs, wage subsidies and programs that extend benefits to the unemployed for six months as they start small businesses.
Reinvigorating the missing fifth -- bringing them back into the labor market and using their capabilities -- will certainly require money. If this were a smart country, we'd be having a debate about how to shift money from programs that provide comfort and toward programs that spark reinvigoration.
But, of course, that's not what is happening. Discretionary spending, which might be used to instigate dynamism, is declining. Health care spending, which mostly provides comfort to those beyond working years, is expanding. Attempts to take money from health care to open it up for other uses are being crushed.
There are basically two ways to cut back on the government health care spending. From the top, a body of experts can be empowered to make rationing decisions. This is the approach favored by President Obama and in use in many countries around the world. Alternatively, at the bottom, costs can be shifted to beneficiaries with premium supports to help them handle the burden. Different versions of this approach are embodied in the Dutch system, the prescription drug benefit and Representative Paul Ryan's budget.
We'll probably need a mixture of these approaches to figure out what works. Instead, Republicans decry the technocratic rationing model as ''death panels.'' Democrats have gone into demagogic overdrive calling premium support ideas ''privatization'' or ''the end of Medicare.''
Let's be clear about the effect of this mendacity: We're locking in the nation's wealth into the Medicare program and closing off any possibility that we might do something significant to reinvigorate the missing fifth. Next time you see a politician demagoguing Medicare, ask this: Should we be using our resources in the manner of a nation in decline or one still committed to stoking the energy of its people and continuing its rise?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (88%); STATISTICS (88%); MEN (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



278 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Town Finances Are Hit by Rise In Tax Appeals

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
GREENBURGH, N.Y. -- Local governments here in well-to-do Westchester County are being overwhelmed by property tax appeals, driven by a growing industry of companies seeking reductions in homeowners' bills in exchange for a share of their savings.
The record-setting number of tax grievances, which nearly quintupled from 2008 to 2010, are adding fiscal pressure to communities already throttled by economic losses and cuts in state aid.
Towns are being forced to refund millions of dollars to homeowners who show they have been overcharged. Some, like New Rochelle, have been forced to increase tax rates to make up for the erosion of assessed property values. Others, like Greenburgh, are also exploring costly townwide revaluations -- a move that many towns have not made in a half-century or more.
Westchester has company, too. With property values plummeting in recent years, local governments across the country have been besieged by homeowners questioning their assessments. 
In Maui County, Hawaii, about 3,500 appeals were filed last year; before 2006, the county had seen no more than 500 in a year. Appeals have more than tripled since the housing market peaked in Ocean City, N.J. And a 42 percent jump in appeals in Hernando County, Fla., added $1.5 million to the county's budget deficit.
Still, the sudden zeal to wring the excess out of Westchester's annual property tax bills -- at a median of $9,044, the highest in the nation -- seems out of character for a county more associated with multimillion-dollar homes set on stone-walled estates, S.U.V. hybrids, top-flight public schools and a sense that higher taxes go with the territory, like a badge of accomplishment.
But that sense has been whittled away, by the blizzard of mailings and cable TV advertisements from assessment reduction outfits, by the human instinct never to pay more than you have to, and by the widespread notion that everyone else is doing it.
''Now that the economy's so bad, people are saying, 'If I can get away with it, I'm going to challenge my taxes,' '' said Paul Feiner, the town supervisor in Greenburgh. ''They're doing anything possible.''
Contingency-fee assessment reduction first appeared as a cottage industry in the 1980s in Nassau County, on Long Island, as property tax rates exploded and homeowners began clamoring for a way to mitigate them. The industry then expanded to the east, into Suffolk County, before heading up the Hudson River to other New York City suburbs about three years ago, seeing easy money in the rolling hills of places like Bedford, Mamaroneck and Scarsdale.
Westchester, with its high taxes and patchwork of antiquated assessment rolls, was ripe, both with opportunity and inequity. Towns here do not regularly reassess individual homes; instead they establish an aggregate valuation increase each year that is imposed on all properties.
As a result, assessments of older, more stately homes had not kept pace with their soaring market values, while middle-class residents and those owning expensive homes built more recently were paying considerably more than their fair share of taxes, and could argue persuasively for a reduction.
Peter Cohen, a veteran tax-appeal consultant from Long Island, set up shop in Westchester last year after finding that as many as half the homes sold in some towns had been overassessed by 30 percent or more of their value. ''We didn't believe our numbers,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''I really thought I was wrong.''
The company of which he is co-owner, Assessment Correction Group, filed 471 grievances in Greenburgh alone -- a fifth of all the tax appeals that the town received. Like many rivals, the group charges homeowners half of any tax reduction granted the first year, plus small add-on fees, but only if it is successful.
Experience is not necessary. Also fueling the boom is the low barrier to entry: anyone can fill out the forms required and obtain the comparable sales data needed to challenge an assessment. In Greenburgh, 703 do-it-yourselfers filed grievances in 2010, up from 449 in 2009.
Edye McCarthy, the town assessor, said that since they were barraged with advertisements underscoring the potential savings, ''people are now realizing it must not be that hard to do.''
For companies whose work is based on volume, the profit potential is enormous. Dale Young was a partner in her husband's construction company in 1990 when she called an assessor in Scarsdale to question the valuation of one of their homes. The assessor spoke condescendingly to her, she said.
Insulted, Ms. Young replied that she saw a ''great business opportunity.'' Within two years, she said, she was earning $250,000 in fees. (She now limits herself to 200 tax appeals a year.)
With another bumper crop of grievances expected next month, municipalities in Westchester are preparing for the worst. New Rochelle has seen its tax roll drop by 2 percent or 3 percent a year, said Howard Rattner, the city's finance commissioner.
''So just to get the same revenue, you need to raise tax rates by that much,'' Mr. Rattner said.
The deluge of grievances, many of which are handled in a special court proceeding known as a Small Claims Assessment Review, is swamping local assessors, some of whom work only part time and who must prepare to defend against scores of appeals each week. Yonkers has not even begun to address the cases filed last year, the city's assessor, Mark Russell, said. ''We settled our last case from 2009 in March,'' he said.
The backlog of cases worsens fiscal problems. If cases are not yet resolved when the year's new tax bills are paid, towns must later pay refunds -- but cannot budget for them with any real accuracy. Refunds are typically paid out of municipal reserves, and dwindling reserves, in turn, can prompt credit downgrades.
Such pressures are raising tensions between assessors and tax-appeal companies, who accuse each other of abusing the system. Assessors say that companies prey on naive homeowners, and that some deliberately file scores of hopeless appeals, betting that a few will stick.
The companies, for their part, say some local assessors are themselves moonlighting as tax-appeal consultants in nearby towns, and that some towns routinely deny even valid, well-supported cases, betting that most will not be pursued in court. As the rancor deepens, solutions seem elusive. Greenburgh is leery of the $3 million or more that a full revaluation (the last was in 1956) would cost, said Mr. Feiner, the town supervisor. Other officials want a countywide revaluation. Some say the industry, which is currently unregulated, should be policed for unprofessional operators, or that appeals should require more stringent documentation, or that they should be made easier so more residents will do it themselves.
Ms. Young said more frequent revaluations offered the only lasting fix. ''The easiest way to put people like me out of business is to be equitable,'' she said.
But political realities -- and fear of the unknown -- make it unlikely. Mr. Rattner, of New Rochelle, said a full revaluation was ''too much of a lift politically.''
''At some point, the housing market's going to stabilize,'' he said. ''That'll reduce the number of grievances, because prices will be down so low.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edye McCarthy, the Greenburgh town assessor, in her office at Town Hall with boxes full of petitions for property tax reductions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) CHART: Tax Rush: The number of homeowners appealing to reduce their property taxes has grown. (Source: N.Y.S. Unified Court System) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); COUNTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



279 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Exports Hit Record And Its Imports Are Lagging

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China's exports surged last month to a record level, as Chinese factories appear to have passed on rising costs to buyers who are finding that they have few alternatives in other countries. 
China's imports lagged, causing its trade surplus to widen sharply from the first three months of this year, to $11.43 billion. That was lower than last year, but still high enough to increase trade frictions with the United States and other countries worried that China is using a weak currency to claim an unusually large share of global job creation as the world economy climbs out of the recent economic downturn.
China's regularly scheduled release of trade statistics came in between two days of negotiations in Washington between senior American and Chinese officials. In the first day of talks on Monday, American officials pressed China to improve its human rights record and allow interest rates and the Chinese currency to rise, while Chinese officials called on the United States to lead a global economic recovery and suggested that their shrinking trade surplus should not be a big concern.
China's General Administration of Customs said that exports rose 25.9 percent in April compared with a year earlier, to a record $155.69 billion, exceeding a previous record of $154.12 billion in December. The increase was somewhat surprising because the spring is traditionally a weak period for Chinese exports.
Chinese imports rose at a slower 21.8 percent, to $144.26 billion, as government policies took effect to restrict bank lending in an attempt to control inflation.
Labor costs are surging by 10 to 30 percent a year in China and commodity costs are rising around the world, leading to warnings by suppliers of Western retailers that price tags will start rising globally. Many companies are searching for alternatives to manufacturing in China, but finding that nowhere else offers China's combination of a large labor supply, world-class highways and ports and strongly pro-business policies, including a strict ban on independent labor unions that tended to hold down wages until very recently.
Josh Green, the chief executive of Panjiva, a New York company that advises 3,000 corporate buyers of goods from Asia, said his clients were extremely worried about the pace of price increases that they face from Chinese suppliers.
''That's all I've been hearing from them over the past year, is concern verging on panic about the changing cost structure in China,'' he said. ''That has led to the hunt for the next China, which is a fool's errand.''
Executives at three Chinese exporters said Tuesday that despite strong retail sales in the United States in April, they had not yet seen a sustained uptick in American orders, even as orders have risen from Europe and emerging markets. One reason might be that these and other exporters are now steadily marking up their prices to reflect the gradual appreciation of the renminbi, which has climbed 5 percent against the dollar since last summer.
''I am not worried about the rise of the renminbi since our company makes an adjustment every three months in the exchange rate used in our contracts,'' said Mabel Lee, the sales manager at the Foshan Summit Sanitary Ware Company, a maker of bathtubs of toilets based in Foshan, in southern China's Guangdong Province.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); INFLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); RETAILERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); RETAIL SALES (63%); INTEREST RATES (53%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



280 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: For Journalists, A Call to Rethink Their Online Models

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY has surveyed the state of digital journalism, and it has concluded that journalists must rethink their relationships -- and their audiences' relationships -- with advertisers.
That does not mean yielding editorial control to sponsors, but it might mean coming up with alternatives to impression-based pricing, creating higher-value content for the Web by tapping into page view data, and helping to ensure that Web ads have value on their own.
In a 139-page report to be released on Tuesday, the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University will outline those recommendations and others, all of which are intended to help newspapers, magazines and television stations better compete in the online marketplace. 
''We're not suggesting that journalists get marching orders from advertisers,'' said Bill Grueskin, the academic dean for the journalism school and a co-author of the report. ''We are suggesting that journalists get a much better understanding of why so many advertising dollars have left the traditional news media business.''
And, he added, a better understanding of what the news media can do to bring the dollars back. To have a journalism school, especially one as esteemed as Columbia's, studying ad rate cards and the online coupon craze might seem unconventional. But it is an outgrowth of academia's growing interest in the economic foundations of journalism at a time when those foundations appear unstable. Columbia and some other journalism schools, for instance, now offer courses on the economics of journalism.
The report's section for conclusions opens with a quote from Randall Rothenberg, the head of the Interactive Advertising Bureau and a former reporter for The New York Times. Mr. Rothenberg told the report's authors, ''Here's the problem: Journalists just don't understand their business.''
That possibility comes up repeatedly in the report. ''Many sectors of the traditional news industry have been slow to embrace changes brought on by digital technology,'' it states, before recommending a ''faster and more consistent pace of innovation and investment.''
It also recommends that journalists ''gain a fuller appreciation for how advertisers now reach their customers via social media, new-media ads and search engine optimization,'' and that larger news organizations should consider creating or re-creating separate digital staffs, ''particularly on the business side.''
The report is a product of several months of visits to news organizations. Mr. Grueskin, a veteran of The Wall Street Journal, co-wrote the report with Ava Seave, an adjunct professor and a consultant, and Lucas Graves, a doctoral candidate at Columbia. The journalism school will hold a public discussion about the report on Tuesday evening.
The report's authors diagnose problems for digital media. Perhaps chief among them is that advertising on the Web tends to have less value for the consumer than advertising in other formats.
''If you ever watch somebody reading a copy of Vanity Fair, they spend as much time looking at the ads as they spend looking at the content,'' Mr. Grueskin said, ''because the ads are actually useful for readers.'' (Ads having value on their own, he added, is ''something that we as journalists have a hard time getting our heads around.'')
One of Columbia's case studies of advertising adding value is KSL.com, the Web site of KSL, the NBC affiliate in Salt Lake City. Thanks in large part to a robust classified ads service, the site now registers about 250 million page views each month -- a staggeringly high figure for a local market of that size. Steep declines in classified advertising have affected countless newspapers and other news properties. But KSL.com has bucked the trend. Its classifieds section benefits from its ownership by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and from the fact that it started up before Craigslist in Salt Lake City.
But it also benefits, Mr. Grueskin said, by reflecting its community's moral values and by forbidding anonymity. ''If I were a publisher, I would spend some time looking at what KSL's Web site does with classifieds versus what Craigslist does,'' he said.
Mr. Grueskin said he was struck by a comment that Chris Hendricks, a vice president at McClatchy, made in an interview for the report:
''It's almost like we are a sales and distribution company that decided we're going to fund journalism.'' Mr. Hendricks's local sales force sells space on sites like Yahoo as well as on McClatchy's own sites.
The report's authors assert that there are limits to the cost-per-thousand model of advertising pricing and say that news outlets and marketers together should ''forge new models that integrate digital ads and social-media outreach.''
As an example, it cites the Web site of The Dallas Morning News, which has a section for high school sports. A package deal for advertising on the section during a recent football season included print ads, a player-of-the-week contest and a banquet for players at the end of the season. ''That gets you out of the pure 'five dollars for every thousand page views' model,'' Mr. Grueskin said.
The report's authors take a dim view of online subscriptions to news, cautioning that news sites ''now should have very limited expectations for its success -- at least on the Web.''
They are more bullish on the prospects of subscriptions for mobile access. They write, ''If publishers really hope to expunge the 'original sin' of giving away content free online, they may be best positioned to do so not on the computers where they first gave away their wares, but on mobile devices that offer a more welcoming environment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The hugely popular online classified section of KSL, a TV station in Salt Lake City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); WRITERS (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); RETAIL COUPONS (77%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



281 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Lag in Closing a Japanese Nuclear Plant Reflects Erosion of a Culture of Consensus

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Last week, Prime Minister Naoto Kan surprised many here when he suddenly moved to suspend the Hamaoka nuclear plant, long criticized as one of the most vulnerable and potentially dangerous nuclear power stations in Japan.
Just as surprising was the response of the plant's operator, the Chubu Electric Power Company. It hemmed and hawed and dragged its feet for three days before finally accepting the prime minister's request on Monday.
This test of wills over the weekend pitted Japan's leader against one of its most entrenched and coddled interest groups, a nuclear power industry that retains enormous clout even after the disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.
While Mr. Kan prevailed, experts say the delay in his decision to shut the plant, and the company's subsequent indecision over whether to follow his recommendation, underscore the obstacles to decisive leadership in Japan's consensus-driven political culture. 
Some experts go a step further, saying that the clash over the fate of the Hamaoka plant, which was built on a fault, reflects a breakdown in the old consensus that long served the needs of a nation in times of stable economic growth, but has worked less well in times of crisis.
''The old consensus model between government and business has broken down,'' said Michael Auslin, director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. ''Everyone is looking out for their own self-interest.''
''The old way of doing things has broken down, but there is not yet a new way to take its place,'' Mr. Auslin said.
This breakdown is the product of the slow disintegration of Japan Inc.'s unity during years of national stagnation, culminating in the 2009 election victory of Mr. Kan's Democratic Party, which ended a half-century of virtual one-party rule in Japan.
Democrats have challenged Japan's sclerotic postwar order, but have struggled to build trust with the nation's powerful business world. Mistrust of the Kan government deepened during the nuclear crisis, when Tokyo often appeared indecisive in its response, and inconsistent in its release of information.
Moreover, Mr. Kan is challenging the nuclear industry, which held a privileged and protected place as Japan made its postwar march to economic development. The need for energy in this resource-poor nation overrode safety and environmental concerns. Strong collusive bonds were built between the industry and regulators by the practice of ''amakudari,'' or '' descent from heaven,'' in which retired government officials received comfortable jobs at the companies they regulated.
''Nuclear power plants were long treated as sacred territory,'' said Katsuhiko Ishibashi, a seismologist and nuclear safety expert at Kobe University who has long argued for tougher quake resistance standards at the country's nuclear facilities. ''The accident at Fukushima Daiichi is at last starting to change that.''
But not quickly. The clash with Chubu, the operator of the Hamaoka plant, underscores the slow pace of decision making and the reluctance of powerful companies -- even in a period of crisis -- to bend to directives from politicians who they feel may not understand the issues at stake. One of the biggest complaints against Mr. Kan is that he made a quick decision without taking the time to do ''nemawashi,'' the time-consuming process of visiting concerned parties ahead of time to work out a compromise that all could agree on.
Prime Minister Kan had been ''undeniably abrupt,'' said Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman of Japan's most powerful business lobby, the Japan Business Federation, known here as the Keidanren.
''What I don't understand about the Democratic Party era is that they reach decisions just like that,'' Mr. Yonekura said at a news conference on Monday. ''Publicizing his own opinions first, then explaining to Chubu Electric later is nothing more than a political performance. These sort of decisions should have been debated first.''
Hamaoka is in many ways a symbol of nuclear power's protected status. While the plant has faced years of lawsuits seeking its suspension because of its precarious location, Japan's compliant courts have consistently ruled in the industry's favor.
Nuclear safety experts have long warned of the dangers posed by the Hamaoka plant, which lies in an area riddled with known fault lines about 120 miles southwest of Tokyo. The government's own experts have estimated that there is close to a 90 percent chance of an earthquake of about magnitude 8.0 hitting the area within the next 30 years.
Board members at Chubu Electric Power at first failed to reach a decision at a meeting on Saturday, a day after Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister, publicly called on the operator to close the plant until major safety improvements could be made to protect against quake and tsunami risks in the region. Local reports said that executives had debated the financial losses that would result from closing the facility, as well as the power shortages that might result from losing a major source of energy in the region.
The decision to adhere to the government's request was ''agonizing'' for the company, Akihisa Mizuno, president of Chubu Electric, said at a news conference on Monday.
''The request from the prime minister is one that carries a lot of weight, and which is based on growing public concern over nuclear power in the wake of the serious accident at Fukushima,'' Mr. Mizuno told reporters.
''We are prepared to put into place safety measures to strengthen our defenses against tsunamis,'' Mr. Mizuno said. ''We believe this is the only way we can regain the trust of the local community, and of wider society.''
Two reactors at the plant will be closed, while a third, already shut down for scheduled inspections, will remain off-line, Mr. Mizuno said. Two older reactors at the plant were decommissioned in 2009.
But in a show of defiance, Mr. Mizuno said the utility had asked the government for assistance ''to help avoid or lessen'' the impact on its shareholders.
Mr. Kan has sought to appease the nuclear power industry by assuring that he will not demand the closing of other nuclear facilities in Japan. The country remains committed to nuclear energy use, the prime minister told reporters on Sunday.
The trade minister, Banri Kaieda, also sought to smooth over ties with the industry on Monday, praising Chubu Electric for its decision to close the plant. ''I know that Chubu Electric faced a lot of difficulties,'' Mr. Kaieda said at a news conference. ''I deeply respect its swift handling of the matter.''
Online Correction: May 9, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of energy that nuclear power plants provide to Japan. Nuclear power provides 30 percent of Japan's electricity needs, not 30 percent of its energy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Akihisa Mizuno, president of Chubu Electric Power, said deciding to suspend a nuclear plant, as the government had asked, was ''agonizing.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (95%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); POWER PLANTS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%)

COMPANY: CHUBU ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (72%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

TICKER: 9502 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (72%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (72%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



282 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Census Data Reveals a Shift In Patterns of Childbearing

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- College-educated women are waiting longer to have children than those without a college education, according to new data from the Census Bureau.
In 2000, the portion of women with college degrees between the ages of 25 and 34 who had children was 42 percent, according to the data. Ten years later, the same group of women, now ages 35 to 44 -- representing about three million Americans -- were far more likely to be mothers: About 76 percent had children, according to the data. 
In contrast, women who did not finish high school were more likely to have children earlier. In 2000, about 83 percent of women ages 25 to 34 who did not have a high school diploma had children. The percentage rose to 88 percent by 2010.
The trend of educated women having children later accelerated in the 1980s, along with the rise in women's educational attainment, said Andrew J. Cherlin, a demographer at Johns Hopkins University.
''College-educated women are following a different path to having children,'' Mr. Cherlin said. ''They wait until they've graduated from college, gotten married and started a career, before having a child.''
Childbearing and fertility patterns have changed greatly since the 1970s.
There are far more women in their 40s without children now than there were in past decades. In 1976, just 10 percent of all women ages 40 to 44 had no children. That percentage had jumped to 19 percent by 2010.
White women in their 40s were more likely to be childless than Hispanics. Just 12 percent of Hispanic women from 40 to 44 were childless, compared with 20 percent of whites, 17 percent of blacks and 16 percent of Asians.
In 1976, the earliest year in Monday's data release, more women had three children than had two, but that has shifted over the years, with far more women having two children than three.
And it is more likely for a woman who has never married to have a child now than it was in the 1970s. Just 3 percent of women who had never been married had a child in 1976. Now the number is about 21 percent, up sharply even from 2008, when it was 15 percent.
About 55 percent of women who had a child in the last year were in the job market, according to the data: about 34 percent were working full time, 14 percent were working part time, and 7 percent were unemployed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (92%); CENSUS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); EMPLOYMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



283 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Physicist Group's Study Raises Doubts on Capturing Carbon Dioxide From Air

BYLINE: By JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF

 BODY:
Over the last few years, some of world's brightest minds have become fascinated with a seemingly simple idea: easing the threat of climate change by pulling carbon dioxide out of the air.
The concept is entirely different from capturing and sequestering carbon dioxide from power plants and other big polluters before it enters the air. Rather, the aim would be to remove the gas from the planet's ambient air, where it exists in low concentrations everywhere.
In 2007 the British billionaire Richard Branson and Al Gore, the former vice president, created a $25 million prize for the first creator of such a technology, and millions of dollars in venture capital have since flowed to start-up companies tackling the problem.
But a new study casts serious doubts on whether such efforts will ever yield an economically viable tool for fighting global warming. The study, released on Monday by the American Physical Society, the world's second-largest group of physicists, finds that while removing carbon dioxide from ambient air is technically feasible, the cost is likely to remain prohibitively high. 
The report concluded it would cost at least $600 a ton to capture carbon dioxide from the air, compared with an estimated cost of about $80 a ton to capture the gas from a typical coal power plant.
The most significant hurdle is the extremely low concentrations of carbon dioxide in air, compared with the stream from a coal-fired power plant or other large emitter, said Robert H. Socolow, a Princeton physicist and a co-chairman of the report.
The flue gas from a coal plant is roughly 10 percent carbon dioxide, while carbon in the ambient air is around four-hundredths of a percentage point.
''We have to deal with our centralized power sources first,'' Mr. Socolow said. ''This is not an assignment for the next few decades.''
The conclusion was greeted with dismay by several leading scientists who have championed air capture as a climate change solution, however.
Wallace S. Broecker, a professor of geology at Columbia University and a pioneering climate change researcher, said it was premature to write off the technology, which was still in its infancy. ''It's something that's so promising, it's a crime not to explore it,'' he said.
''The cost depends on how widely it's implemented,'' Dr. Broecker added. ''The first computers cost a fortune, and now they cost almost nothing.''
Developing a workable system to capture and sequester carbon emissions directly from power plants is far more pressing, said Michael Desmond, a chemist and senior internal consultant at BP who served as co-chairman of the report. ''You've got to get your entire electric infrastructure decarbonized,'' Mr. Desmond said. ''It's only there where air capture starts to make sense.''
The development of carbon capture technology for power plants and other large emissions sources has made significant strides in recent years, and the federal stimulus package included billions of dollars for research and demonstration projects.
But wide-scale deployment in the United States will almost certainly require the passage of federal climate legislation setting a price for carbon dioxide emissions; such legislation failed to clear the Senate last year and is unlikely to be revived anytime soon.
Spending on carbon capture from ambient air, by contrast, has been far more modest, totaling just tens of millions of dollars. Kilimanjaro Energy, a California start-up and one of the leading developers of ambient air carbon-capture technology, for instance, has spent just over $11 million on research and development, said Nathaniel David, the firm's president.
The idea of capturing carbon in ambient air has found some bipartisan support in the Senate, where a bill to reward researchers who develop carbon-removal technology was reintroduced last month with a Republican sponsor.
Klaus S. Lackner, a physicist and director of the Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy at Columbia University's Earth Institute who created the company's technology, criticized the American Physical Society study as too narrowly focused, saying it had analyzed only outdated technology.
Dr. Lackner said his design, which uses a plastic that absorbs carbon dioxide when dry and releases it to the air when wet, would eventually be capable of capturing the gas for far less than $600 a ton.
''I can assure you that if I believed it would cost $600 a ton, I would have given up long ago,'' he said.
Mr. David of Kilimanjaro Energy also said the report had failed to take into account the use of captured carbon dioxide as a feedstock for biofuels, like those made from algae.
''What we're into is making fuels,'' he said. ''If you can grab CO2 from the atmosphere and can do it economically, you can find yourself in the midst of the fuel business.''
Mr. Desmond, a co-chairman of the report, said his group had struggled to get sufficient data from private companies engaged in research into direct air capture. In the absence of data, claims that the process could be done cheaply were almost impossible to verify, he said.
''In the big scheme of things, those numbers don't seem credible,'' he said. ''That's my concern.''
Other analysts had mixed views. In an e-mail message, Sasha Mackler, director for energy innovation at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington institute, agreed that direct air capture of carbon dioxide was probably decades away from making economic sense. But the market for alternative fuels could make the process far more profitable than forecast in the report, Mr. Mackler said.
''We are at far too early a stage to predict how this field will emerge in the years ahead,'' he said. ''Now is not the time to be taking options off the table.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 11, 2011; May 12, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about a study on the economic viability of capturing carbon dioxide from the earth's atmosphere misstated the academic field of Wallace S. Broecker, a Columbia University professor who challenges the study's conclusion. He is a professor of geology, not physics.
The article also referred incorrectly in some copies to the director for energy innovation at the Bipartisan Policy Center; Sasha Mackler is a man.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about a study on the economic viability of capturing carbon dioxide from the earth's atmosphere misstated the ranking of the American Physical Society, the group that released the findings. It is the world's second-largest group of physicists, not the largest. (It ranks behind the German Physical Society.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wallace S. Broecker, a pioneering climate change researcher, said it was premature to write off the technology. ''It's something that's so promising, it's a crime not to explore it,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BBVA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); PHYSICS (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); CHEMISTRY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (69%); STARTUPS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (56%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); RICHARD BRANSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



284 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Outlines Demands on Debt Limit Fight

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Speaker John A. Boehner said Monday that Republicans would insist on trillions of dollars in federal spending cuts in exchange for their support of an increase in the federal debt limit sought by the Obama administration to prevent a government default later this year.
In his most specific statement to date on what Republicans will demand in the debt ceiling fight, Mr. Boehner told the Economic Club of New York that the level of spending reductions should exceed the amount of the increase in borrowing power. 
''Without significant spending cuts and changes to the way we spend the American people's money, there will be no debt limit increase,'' Mr. Boehner told members of New York's business and finance community. ''And cuts should be greater than the accompanying increase in debt authority the president is given.'' Mr. Boehner said those cuts should be in the trillions of dollars, not billions.
In the speech, delivered ahead of a second round of debt limit negotiations with the White House and Senate Democrats on Tuesday, Mr. Boehner did not provide a timeframe for when the spending reductions would have to be imposed.
His address came after a leading Senate Democrat, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, accused Mr. Boehner of ''playing with fire'' by holding the debt limit increase hostage to a push for spending cuts and budget restrictions.
''The idea of refusing to raise the debt ceiling should be taken off the table,'' Mr. Schumer said in a conference call with reporters before the speech. Mr. Schumer also said he believed that the debt limit increase should be approved by mid-July to reassure nervous credit markets, though the administration has said it can push the deadline into early August.
In his remarks, the speaker expressed strong resistance to the effort by some Senate Democrats and President Obama for an alternative to enacting specific spending cuts as the price for increasing the debt limit: ''triggers'' that prompt automatic spending reductions and perhaps tax increases if Congress and the White House do not meet targets for lowering the deficit in coming years. That idea has emerged as providing the potential for compromise over the debt increase.
Mr. Boehner said the reductions should be ''actual cuts and program reforms, not broad deficit or debt targets that punt the tough questions to the future. And with the exception of tax hikes -- which will destroy jobs -- everything is on the table.''
Acknowledging that many in the financial world are uneasy about the prospect that the government might not be able to make good on its financial obligations, Mr. Boehner said it would be more damaging to the nation if Congress granted the administration's request without taking steps to curb deficit spending and bring down the federal debt.
''It would send a signal to investors and entrepreneurs everywhere that America still is not serious about dealing with our spending addiction,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It would erode confidence in our economy and reduce the certainty for small businesses. And frankly I think it would kill even more American jobs.''
The administration has not specified the amount of the increase it is seeking in the $14.3 trillion debt limit, but the previous increase in 2010 was just under $2 trillion, and estimates are that a similar amount would be required to avoid a second politically charged vote on the debt limit before the 2012 elections.
Mr. Boehner also said the debt talks should include ''honest conversations'' about how to rein in the costs of the Medicare program, and he advocated fundamental changes. Other senior Republicans acknowledged last week that any changes to the health insurance program for older Americans are unlikely to incorporate the party's proposal to begin providing private insurance subsidies for future retirees.
The speaker managed his party's negotiations with the White House and Senate Democrats this year over current spending and pushed his demands for cuts to the final hours, when a last-minute deal for about $38 billion in cuts avoided a federal government shutdown shortly before midnight on April 8. Asked by an audience member whether he would entertain a short-term increase in the debt limit if no deal was reached, Mr. Boehner was noncommittal.
Mr. Schumer and Roger C. Altman, an investment banker and former Clinton administration Treasury official, said the consequences for the nation's economy could be dire if the government defaulted for the first time in its history or if the debt-ceiling talks were pushed to the brink.
''If America were to default, even for 24 hours, that would have an unprecedented and a catastrophic impact on global financial markets and on American markets,'' Mr. Altman said.
But Mr. Boehner said the debt limit fight provided a unique opportunity. ''I don't want to allow this moment that we have in our history to pass without real action to solve our long-term economic problems,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaking in New York on Monday, John A. Boehner gave more details on the Republican position on raising the debt limit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TAX LAW (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



285 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS SENATE BID; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Democrat to Take On Lugar

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Representative Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, announced Monday that he would run for the Senate, declaring, ''I want to take the fight for American jobs and opportunity to the United States Senate.'' 
Mr. Donnelly, who has been in the House since 2007, is hoping to capitalize on dissension among Republicans in the state. He is running for the seat held by Richard G. Lugar, a six-term Republican who faces a primary challenge from the state treasurer, Richard Mourdock, a favorite of the Tea Party movement.
In a statement to supporters, Mr. Donnelly said, ''If you believe, like I do, that the key to America's greatness is not big promises, but old-fashioned hard work and a commitment to putting our government back on the side of Hoosier families, then I hope you'll join us.''
Brian Walsh, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said in a statement this weekend that Mr. Donnelly had been ''a partisan rubber stamp'' for Democrats in Washington.
''Just months after voters overwhelmingly rejected Brad Ellsworth's liberal policies, Joe Donnelly wants to sell Hoosiers on that exact same big-spending, job-killing Washington agenda,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''We welcome him into the race.''
So far, Mr. Donnelly is the only Democrat to jump into the race. Senator Patty Murray of Washington, chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said in a statement that he would make Indiana ''a great pick-up opportunity'' for Democrats.
''He is a strong candidate who knows how to beat the odds and win tough campaigns,'' Ms. Murray said. ''Most importantly, Joe is exactly the kind of tireless fighter Indiana families need to rebuild the state's economy, create jobs and get Hoosiers back to work.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: JOE DONNELLY (91%); DICK LUGAR (79%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (59%); PATTY MURRAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



286 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: An Insider Views China, Past and Future

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
ON CHINA
By Henry Kissinger
Illustrated. 586 pages. Penguin Press. $36.
It's been four decades since President Richard M. Nixon sent Henry A. Kissinger to Beijing to re-establish contact with China, an ancient civilization with which the United States, at that point, had had no high-level diplomatic contact for more than two decades. Since then the cold war has ended; the Soviet Union (a threat to both China and the United States and a spur to Sino-American cooperation) has come unwound; and economic reform in China has transformed a poverty-ridden, poorly educated nation into a great power that is playing an increasingly pivotal role in the globalized world.
Mr. Kissinger's fascinating, shrewd and sometimes perverse new book, ''On China,'' not only addresses the central role he played in Nixon's opening to China but also tries to show how the history of China, both ancient and more recent, has shaped its foreign policy and attitudes toward the West. While this volume is indebted to the pioneering scholarship of historians like Jonathan D. Spence, its portrait of China is informed by Mr. Kissinger's intimate firsthand knowledge of several generations of Chinese leaders. 
The book deftly traces the rhythms and patterns in Chinese history (its cycles of turning inward in isolationist defensiveness and outward to the broader world), even as it explicates the philosophical differences that separate it from the United States. Each country has a sense of manifest destiny, but ''American exceptionalism is missionary,'' Mr. Kissinger says. ''It holds that the United States has an obligation to spread its values to every part of the world.''
China's exceptionalism, in contrast, he says, is cultural: China does not proselytize or claim that its institutions ''are relevant outside China,'' yet it tends to grade ''all other states as various levels of tributaries based on their approximation to Chinese cultural and political forms.''
Lurking beneath Mr. Kissinger's musings on Chinese history is a not-so-subtle subtext. This volume, much like his 1994 book, ''Diplomacy,'' is also a sly attempt by a controversial figure to burnish his legacy as Nixon's national security adviser and secretary of state. It is a book that promotes Mr. Kissinger's own brand of realpolitik thinking, and that in doing so often soft-pedals the human costs of Mao's ruthless decades-long reign and questions the consequences of more recent American efforts to press human-rights issues with the Chinese.
Some of the more revealing exchanges between Mr. Kissinger and Mao have already appeared in the 1999 book ''The Kissinger Transcripts,'' taken from the nongovernmental National Security Archive. Those documents show that Mr. Kissinger employed a good deal more flattery in his wrangling with foreign leaders than his personal accounts might suggest. A lot of the backstage maneuvering in the Nixon White House's dealings with China will similarly be familiar in outline to readers of Margaret MacMillan's ''Nixon and Mao: The Week That Changed the World'' and William Bundy's ''Tangled Web: The Making of Foreign Policy in the Nixon Presidency.''
When it comes to talking about Chinese leaders he has met, Mr. Kissinger, the hardheaded apostle of realpolitik, can sound almost starry-eyed. His sympathy for these leaders is not that surprising, given his descriptions of them as practitioners of the same sort of unsentimental power politics he is famous for himself. This approach, he says, enabled China, ''despite its insistent Communist propaganda, to conduct itself as essentially a geopolitical 'free agent' of the cold war,'' making a tactical partnership with the United States in order to contain its fellow Communist country, the Soviet Union.
This sort of pragmatic self-interest on China's part, Mr. Kissinger says, has continued. After 9/11, he writes: ''China remained an agnostic bystander to the American projection of power across the Muslim world and above all to the Bush administration's proclamation of ambitious goals of democratic transformation. Beijing retained its characteristic willingness to adjust to changes in alignments of power and in the composition of foreign governments without passing a moral judgment.''
Regarding the brutal crackdown on dissidents by the government of Deng Xiaoping at Tiananmen Square in 1989, Mr. Kissinger says that the American reaction left the Chinese puzzled: ''They could not understand why the United States took umbrage at an event that had injured no American material interests and for which China claimed no validity outside its own territory.''
For that matter, Mr. Kissinger's own take on Tiananmen and the Chinese government has a determinedly ''on the one hand, on the other hand'' feel: ''Like most Americans, I was shocked by the way the Tiananmen protest was ended. But unlike most Americans, I had had the opportunity to observe the Herculean task Deng had undertaken for a decade and a half to remold his country: moving Communists toward acceptance of decentralization and reform; traditional Chinese insularity toward modernity and a globalized world -- a prospect China had often rejected. And I had witnessed his steady efforts to improve Sino-American ties.''
Mr. Kissinger is even more chillingly cavalier about the tens of millions of people who lost their lives during Mao's years in power and the devastating fallout of his Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution. Mr. Kissinger writes about what he describes as a ''poignant'' scene in which ''Nixon complimented Mao on having transformed an ancient civilization, to which Mao replied: 'I haven't been able to change it. I've only been able to change a few places in the vicinity of Beijing.' ''
Mr. Kissinger then, startlingly, adds: ''After a lifetime of titanic struggle to uproot Chinese society, there was not a little pathos in Mao's resigned recognition of the pervasiveness of Chinese culture and the Chinese people.''
Buying into many of the myths Mao promoted about himself, Mr. Kissinger describes him as ''the philosopher king.''
''Mao enunciated the doctrine of 'continuous revolution,' but when the Chinese national interest required it, he could be patient and take the long view,'' he writes. ''The manipulation of 'contradictions' was his proclaimed strategy, yet it was in the service of an ultimate goal drawn from the Confucian concept of da tong, or the Great Harmony.''
For some people, Mr. Kissinger acknowledges, ''the tremendous suffering Mao inflicted on his people will dwarf his achievements.'' But he also delivers this coldblooded rationalization: ''If China remains united and emerges as a 21st-century superpower,'' many Chinese may come to regard him as they do the early emperor Qin Shihuang, ''whose excesses were later acknowledged by some as a necessary evil.''
The portraits Mr. Kissinger draws of Mao's successors project an appreciative intimacy. He remembers Zhou Enlai as conducting ''conversations with the effortless grace and superior intelligence of the Confucian sage.'' He adds that the elegant Zhou -- who would be ''criticized for having concentrated on softening some of Mao's practices rather than resisting them'' -- faced the classic quandary of the ''adviser to the prince,'' who must balance ''the benefits of the ability to alter events against the possibility of exclusion, should he bring his objections to any one policy to a head.''
Of Deng Xiaoping, a ''doughty little man with the melancholy eyes,'' Mr. Kissinger reminds us that Deng and his family suffered greatly during the Cultural Revolution -- he was exiled to perform manual labor, and his son, Mr. Kissinger writes, was ''tormented by Red Guards and pushed off the top of a building at Beijing University'' and denied admission to a hospital for his broken back. Upon his return to government, Deng worked to replace the Revolution's emphasis on ideological purity with the values of ''order, professionalism and efficiency,'' and Mr. Kissinger credits him with fashioning the modernizations that would transform ''Mao's drab China of agricultural communes'' into a bustling economic giant.
There are few new insights into Nixon here. Mr. Kissinger obliquely acknowledges what critics like the historian Robert Dallek have argued: that Nixon tried to use his initiatives with China and the Soviet Union to distract attention from his failures in Vietnam. Among the reasons Nixon's trip to China occurred in the first place, Mr. Kissinger writes, were Mao's desire to make ''a move that might force the Soviets to hesitate before taking on China militarily'' and Nixon's eagerness ''to raise American sights beyond Vietnam.''
Mr. Kissinger also says that the secrecy surrounding negotiations with China (''Nixon had decided that the channel to Beijing should be confined to the White House'') ''nearly derailed the enterprise,'' when an out-of-the-loop State Department dismissed an invitation Mao had made to Nixon in an interview as not serious, and described Chinese foreign policy as ''expansionist'' and ''rather paranoiac.''
Although Mr. Kissinger does not delve into recent debates over the enormous amount of United States debt that China holds, or how an increasingly ascendant China could affect the rest of the world (the subject of books like Martin Jacques's ''When China Rules the World'' and James Kynge's ''China Shakes the World''), he observes that President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao ''presided over a country that no longer felt constrained by the sense of apprenticeship to Western technology and institutions,'' and that the 2008 economic meltdown ''seriously undermined the mystique of Western economic prowess'' among the Chinese.
These developments, in turn, Mr. Kissinger argues, have prompted a ''new tide of opinion in China -- among the vocal younger generation of students and Internet users and quite possibly in portions of the political and military leadership -- to the effect that a fundamental shift in the structure of the international system was taking place.''
Arguing that a cooperative United States-China relationship is ''essential to global stability and peace,'' Mr. Kissinger warns that were a cold war to develop between the countries, it ''would arrest progress for a generation on both sides of the Pacific'' and ''spread disputes into internal politics of every region at a time when global issues such as nuclear proliferation, the environment, energy security and climate change impose global cooperation.'' Mr. Kissinger, it should be noted, is chairman of Kissinger Associates Inc., an international consulting firm that does work with companies that have business interests in China.
''Relations between China and the United States,'' he writes, ''need not -- and should not -- become a zero-sum game.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Zhou Enlai, the prime minister of China, and Henry A. Kissinger. They met in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRY KISSINGER ARCHIVES/LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HISTORY (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: On China (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



287 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: More Than A Resume

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Joe Nocera is off today.

 BODY:
You must remember this: ''He worked as a community organizer.''
Rudolph Giuliani paused to choke on the words in his speech at the 2008 Republican convention, followed by a gasp, waves of laughter and more ridicule.
It became a punch line, the part of Barack Obama's resume that had him working with Roman Catholic parishes on Chicago's South Side to help the unemployed. The kicker was delivered by Sarah Palin when she touted her own credentials. ''I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a community organizer except that you have actual responsibilities.'' 
On paper, the war hero with decades of political experience is far more qualified to make life-and-death decisions than a candidate yet to be scuffed by conflict. ''You're hiring someone to do a job,'' said Giuliani, in framing the choice that year, ''a job that has to do with the safety of your family.''
Turns out, having a community organizer in the White House Situation Room was not a bad thing. Perhaps better than a senator who was afraid to offend an ally. And surely better than a governor who couldn't even finish her one job with actual responsibilities. Among other things, the most critical 40 minutes of the Obama presidency prove a point backed by history: judgment and temperament are far more important than a resume.
Harry S. Truman was ridiculed as a haberdasher -- a wonderful old word that fell out of use as men's clothiers gave way to big-box retailers. He was also the only 20th-century American president without a college degree.
Yet Truman finished the war against Nazi Germany and imperial Japan and oversaw plans that got Europe back on its feet. He racially integrated the armed forces by executive order. History has been kind to him. And, by the way, he was a failed haberdasher at that; his store went bankrupt.
Ronald Reagan, that B-list actor -- what could he know about running the most powerful nation in the world? Instinctively, he knew enough to make peace with a cold war adversary at the right moment rather than push him into a nuclear corner.
It was the most seasoned of Democrats, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who initially raised doubts about whether Americans could count on an untested Barack Obama to answer the dreaded 3 a.m. phone call.
And this theme continued in the general election when Senator John McCain pummeled Obama for saying he would go into Pakistan to take out Osama bin Laden, diplomatic formalities be damned. ''Will we risk the confused leadership of an inexperienced candidate who once suggested bombing our ally, Pakistan?'' asked McCain.
To their credit, both Giuliani and McCain have since been gracious in commending Obama on his order to get the world's most wanted mass killer. Giuliani even toured ground zero with the president on Thursday, looking mighty pleased to be with the former community organizer in his moment of triumph.
Other Republicans -- not so good. Newt Gingrich, just to pick a paragon of bad judgment out of the hat, is a college term paper on how a resume does not make a leader. Gingrich, who is officially, formally, finally, and forever announcing that he is sort of, kind of, maybe, oh-what-hell-why-not running for president on Wednesday, had an interesting take on the airstrikes in Libya.
First, he criticized President Obama for not imposing a no-fly zone. Then he hit him for imposing a no-fly zone. In two weeks' time, he went from saying he would intervene ''this evening'' to saying, ''I would not have intervened.''
Just before the worst oil spill in history, he started a campaign to unfetter the oil industry, with the slogan, ''Drill here, drill now.''
For historical perspective, Gingrich said President Obama and the Democrats pose ''as great a threat to America as Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union.'' This was in one of his books, a product of deliberative phrasing, not some word spasm for the birther set. Imagine that temperament in the Situation Room.
There's no telling, really, if Obama's time trying to help people with rental leases and job applications did him any good in the hunt for Bin Laden. As president, he has shown himself to be a thoughtful ditherer, someone who encourages opposing views, even when others are clamoring for him to Do Something Now! In this case, it was nine months of containing the biggest secret in the world that ended with one of ''the longest 40 minutes of my life,'' an operation he thought had only a 55 percent chance of succeeding.
But the man who walked out of the Situation Room with the words ''We got him'' showed that he had learned, somewhere, that patience can pay off. No doubt, those many thankless days with the South Side poor were instructive.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WORLD WAR II (88%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (86%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); COLD WAR (74%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (70%); MAYORS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); RETAILERS (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); RELIGION (56%); MEN'S CLOTHING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); SARAH PALIN (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



288 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Dodd-Frank Dissenters Sound Off

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The irony was thick.
Alan Schwartz, the former chief executive of Bear Stearns who oversaw its near-demise and subsequent government-aided rescue, was here at Michael Milken's annual conference - a West Coast version of Davos for financiers - moderating a panel last week about whether the Dodd-Frank Act had ended ''too big to fail.''
Ever since the legislation was passed, we have heard repeatedly from Washington mouthpieces that the new law will help keep us from having to bail out our biggest banks in the next crisis. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently published a paper describing how its new resolution authority would have avoided the wreckage of Lehman Brothers' collapse if it had the powers at the time.
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, one of the biggest banks in the nation, regularly argues that there is no need to break up banks; the new legislation, he says, will prevent a cascading effect from the failure of a large bank because the government will be able take it over and unwind it in an orderly way. 
So it was with some dismay to hear the opposite view from Mr. Schwartz's panel of ''experts'': Raymond W. McDaniel Jr., chief executive of Moody's, called the legislation ''probably not workable.'' Jim Millstein, the former chief restructuring officer of the Treasury Department who oversaw the bailout of the American International Group and whose boss, Timothy F. Geithner, helped draft the rules, declared, ''I think it's got deep flaws.''
Thomas J. Wilson , chairman of Allstate and deputy chairman, of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said the new law ''creates more uncertainty rather than certainty.'' And Ken Griffin, founder of the $15 billion hedge fund Citadel Investment Group, went the furthest by proclaiming that not only would the legislation not work as proposed, but it is ''going to deeply entrench crony capitalism into the very fabric of our financial system, which I am terrified about.''
It is worth listening to these gentleman. (The Milken Institute has made a video of the panel available online. For the finance obsessives among us, it is riveting.)
While the debate over Too Big to Fail seems to have lost steam, it shouldn't. Listening to this group, it is clear that there will be another financial crisis - and possibly sooner than we expect.
When a crisis does emerge, we will have to test, in real time, the practicality of the Dodd-Frank legislation, which gives the government the right to take over a faltering bank - before it falters, it is hoped. It is our last line of defense.
But Mr. Griffin has a very different take on the matter: To him, the government ''literally will come in and say that we are going to liquidate your institution without you having had filed for bankruptcy. It's an involuntary proceeding,'' he said, noting that there will be ''little in the way judicial oversight.''
He continued: ''The F.D.I.C. then says here are the creditors who we are going to protect out of the gate and make whole to one degree or another, and then here are the creditors who are not going to make whole out of the gate.''
What does all this mean? According to Mr. Griffin, ''this means that companies that are connected to Washington, that curry political favor, will be favored at the expense of companies that do not have their business model revolve around appeasing politicians and making campaign contributions.''
In other words, the process of the government trying to take over a large failing bank - and how creditors will ultimately be dealt with - could actually add to uncertainty in the midst of the crisis when we can least afford it.
''As soon as you institute an insolvency proceeding for a financial institution, if they haven't run before it started they're going to think about running very quickly,'' Mr. Millstein said.
''I think it could actually accelerate people's demise rather than stop it,'' Mr. Wilson added.
Even with a government guarantee, Mr. Millstein said he expected that the next time there is a crisis, it is unlikely ''anybody is going to buy an insurance policy from an F.D.I.C. bridge company that's holding the assets of A.I.G. or anyone else who is lucky enough to be put into these proceedings.''
So how do we avoid the next banking crisis?
Unfortunately, the answer is complicated and is structural - it requires much more than a simple provision of legislation. It requires rewriting the rules of much of the industry.
''Every bank in the United States has an F.D.I.C. guarantee on the front door, and they're more than happy to enjoy the economic rents that go with the taxpayer subsidy relating to that guarantee,'' Mr. Griffin said. ''The governments guarantee should be limited to very narrow risk taking activities. High quality consumer loans, high quality mortgages, high quality corporate loans. We should keep those parts of our financial systems walled off from that part of our financial system that revolves around aggressive risk taking.''
All of that may be true - and ultimately may be the only way to save ourselves from the next perfect storm. But it requires convincing people like Mr. Wilson, who has a powerful voice at the Fed and who made an argument that created quite a stir in the hallways after the presentation.
''Our financial system in America is the envy of the world,'' he said. ''We have more skills, capabilities, infrastructure, data than anybody else and people love it and all of a sudden we've sort of turned into it's like a terrible thing - like we should bust it all up into small little pieces and have a bunch of little companies doing it. It doesn't make any sense to me.''
''With that comes a risk of some giant companies having a problem,'' he said, explaining that it is a ''the tail event'' - as in a low-risk probability - '' and you don't run your life around a tail event.''
''You're flying home from here,'' he said, suggesting that you wouldn't ''take the train home'' simply our of fear. That may be true. But there is a reason planes rarely go down: strict government regulation.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth Griffin, the chief executive of Citadel, is no fan of the Dodd-Frank Act, saying it would perpetuate cronyism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (65%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (53%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); ALL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (72%); JAMES DIMON (58%); THOMAS J WILSON (58%); RAYMOND MCDANIEL (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) WEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



289 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: The Rejected Windfall: Some governors, like Florida's Rick Scott, are turning their backs on federal dollars

 BODY:
After Gov. Rick Scott of Florida thoughtlessly rejected $2.4 billion in federal aid for a high-speed rail line, he claimed last month that he was doing a huge favor for the national Treasury, which he expected would give away the money in tax cuts. That was nonsense, of course; Mr. Scott was really doing a favor for train passengers in the Northeast, Midwest and California, which were given $2 billion of his money on Monday for better service. 
Florida voters might want to think about that decision as they sit in traffic jams, burning up $4-a-gallon gasoline. In fact, some of them clearly have thought about it because Mr. Scott now has some of the worst approval ratings of a Florida official in the last decade.
He has joined other newly elected Republican governors so rigidly opposed to the Obama administration that they are willing to harm their states to score points. The result is a crazy quilt of state relationships with Washington, stitched more with ideology than reason.
None of the money in Monday's announcement will be going to Wisconsin, for example, where Gov. Scott Walker has also decided that his strapped state could do without rail improvements and the construction jobs that go with them. Nor will it go to Ohio, where Gov. John Kasich preferred rejectionism to the improvement of rail service among the state's largest cities, which could have produced 16,000 jobs.
Instead, it will go to 15 states that have more farsighted leadership, who understand the important role federal dollars can play in stimulating the economy, moving people quickly from place to place and reducing tailpipe emissions. Some of those states are led by Republicans: Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan happily stood beside Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood on Monday to accept nearly $200 million to upgrade the rail line between Dearborn and Kalamazoo, the bulk of the Chicago-Detroit corridor.
The difference between states that want better infrastructure and those that do not is likely to grow in coming years. Some states will accept federal aid and tax themselves to pay for better trains, upgraded roads and bridges, and effective water systems. Others will not.
In the Northeast, several Amtrak corridors will be upgraded, including a sliver of the Acela line and the Empire line through upstate New York. The Chicago-St. Louis corridor will be improved, and $300 million will be invested in the high-speed project between Los Angeles and San Francisco. Texas is accepting $15 million to start work on a fast line between Dallas and Houston.
Transportation is not all that is at stake. Last year, Utah Republican lawmakers tried to refuse $101 million in federal money intended to save teachers' jobs; they backed down when it was clear that Washington could send the money directly to school districts. Oklahoma and other states have rejected federal dollars connected to health care reform. Earlier this year, Missouri nearly rejected extended jobless benefits for 10,000 residents after a handful of Republicans said the money was wasteful.
Refusenik Republicans glorify shopworn principles like smaller government and states' rights. They will have to defend them to their voters when the public hears the passenger trains whistling from the next state over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRAINS (78%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); EMISSIONS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (70%); QUILTS & QUILTING (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (92%); SCOTT WALKER (79%); RICK SNYDER (79%); JOHN KASICH (58%); RAY LAHOOD (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



290 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Electric Avenue

BYLINE: By SETH FLETCHER. 
Seth Fletcher, a senior editor at Popular Science, is the author of ''Bottled Lightning: Superbatteries, Electric Cars and the New Lithium Economy.''

 BODY:
THE American response to rising gas prices has been depressingly predictable. We're shocked to see prices top $4 a gallon, as if it's never happened before. We demand that something be done -- not to reduce our dependence on oil, but to cut the cost of a fill-up. Fortunately the White House is standing behind a goal that could genuinely transform the nation's automotive fleet: putting one million electric vehicles on the road by 2015.
The plan is ambitious, but it's more realistic than its critics maintain. Some argue that because batteries can't yet propel a full-size car 500 miles on the highway and recharge in a few minutes, we should give up and focus on squeezing better mileage out of existing technology. 
But many of the electric vehicles that will count toward President Obama's goal won't run on electricity alone. They will combine batteries, electric motors and internal-combustion engines to use as little gasoline as possible while still doing everything Americans expect their cars to do. Electrification is not an all-or-nothing proposition -- it's a process, the gradual replacement of gas-burning engines with batteries and electric motors.
The process has already begun. Last December, the first mass-produced electric vehicles of the 21st century -- the Chevrolet Volt, which runs on battery power for up to 50 miles before a backup gasoline engine kicks in, and the Nissan Leaf, a purely battery-powered five-passenger hatchback -- began shipping to customers. Tesla Motors has been selling small numbers of expensive electric sports cars since 2008. Ford will soon come out with a plug-in model of its own, and Toyota will release a plug-in version of the Prius hybrid. (The current Prius can only run gas-free for short stretches and at low speeds.)
Purely electric cars like the Leaf never consume gasoline; plug-in hybrids like the Volt can run primarily on electricity. Department of Transportation statistics show that 78 percent of Americans commute 40 miles or fewer a day, so most people who drive a Volt won't need to burn any gas on a normal day.
When cars like these are being driven on a large scale, the benefits will be substantial. The Electrification Coalition, an electric-vehicle advocacy group, estimates that if, by 2040, 75 percent of all miles driven in the United States are powered by electricity, oil consumption by light-duty vehicles will drop from the current level of nearly nine million barrels a day to two million. But getting there will require a mass rollout of these cars, and it will take government assistance to make that happen.
The Obama administration already supports incentives to encourage drivers to buy electric cars, and it has devoted $2.4 billion in stimulus money to the development of a domestic electric-car industry. The president's 2012 budget request increases financing for battery research and proposes good ideas for accelerating the spread of electric vehicles, including the transformation of the existing $7,500 tax credit for the purchase of a plug-in vehicle into a point-of-sale rebate, which would give buyers their refund immediately rather than at tax time.
These investments may be too much to expect from a Congress that can barely keep the government running. At the very least, however, President Obama and the Senate must resist pressure to gut renewable energy programs in the name of reducing the deficit -- an urge expressed most clearly in Representative Paul D. Ryan's budget plan, which proposes a sizable and profoundly shortsighted cut in financing for energy research and development.
We've been here before. In the mid 1990s, compelled by California air-quality regulations, automakers began leasing small numbers of electric cars, most famously General Motors's EV1. But after the industry succeeded in weakening the regulations, G.M. recalled the EV1s and crushed them in the desert -- a process chronicled in the 2006 documentary ''Who Killed the Electric Car?''
And that wasn't the first aborted American electric-vehicle effort. In the 1970s, the government responded to the crisis in the oil markets with a surge in financing for alternative energy projects. Scores of chemists turned their attention to battery science and transformed the previously lifeless field.
Then oil became cheap again, and money for battery research dried up. Western battery science languished while the Japanese, looking for better batteries for portable electronics, followed up on the existing research and, in 1991, commercialized the lithium-ion battery. Now the vast majority of the world's lithium-ion batteries, the most valuable and essential component in an electric vehicle, are manufactured in Asia. The United States is scrambling to catch up.
Today, at universities like Stanford and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and in national laboratories like Argonne and Lawrence Berkeley, scientists are developing technologies that could power a post-oil age -- batteries nearly as rich in usable energy as gasoline, which would make cars like the Volt, with their gas-burning backup engines, historical artifacts.
If we gut domestic clean-energy research, scientists in China or Germany or Japan will finish this work. But it would be far better to stick with the program we've begun -- financing research into better batteries while deploying vehicles that replace gasoline with electricity as much as possible -- and prove that when it comes to energy, America can, in fact, learn from its mistakes.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PATRICK KYLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (67%); CONSUMPTION (66%); STATISTICS (60%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (53%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



291 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Government Outlines Steps Toward a Freer Market

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- For the first time since the Communist revolution 52 years ago, Cubans will be allowed to buy and sell houses and newer automobiles, and they may be able to travel abroad as tourists more freely, under policy changes announced Monday that are intended to shake up the country's foundering economy. 
Cubans lined up at kiosks to pay the equivalent of 12 cents for booklets outlining 313 guidelines approved at a historic Communist Party congress last month.
The publication lacked many details on what restrictions, taxes and other potential roadblocks the initiatives might include, according to reporters in Havana who purchased it. It was not available online and details on how the changes will be carried out will probably not be known until Cuba's legislature codifies them in the coming months.
But analysts said that simply bringing into the open what had been a black market of house and automobile swaps could be one of the most significant changes to the economy in decades and could inject badly needed cash into the system.
Many Cubans hardly ever move, and they often are stuck driving crumbling Soviet-era cars bought from state dealers. Individuals are permitted to sell cars made before the 1959 revolution, but only to another owner.
''These are very important steps,'' said Arch Ritter, an economist at Carleton University in Ottawa who studies Cuba. ''To have a housing market, for example, will be of tremendous importance to Cuban citizens, because there hasn't been a market in 50 years. In Cuba, people are born in the same house they die in.''
Cuban expatriates in the United States have closely followed the changes, eyeing the potential to snap up real estate through relatives on the island, though it remains to be seen if the government will put brakes on foreign ownership or financing.
Many of these changes are already under way, announced in a number of speeches by President Raul Castro over the past several months. In the speeches, Mr. Castro declared that Cuba, hit hard by the global recession, deteriorating sugar market and, the government says, repercussions of the United States' economic embargo, must move from an almost entirely state-based economy toward one allowing at least a little more free enterprise.
Mr. Castro has vowed to maintain socialism while taking steps like expanding the ranks of the self-employed and increasing the leasing of state land for private farming, all subject to heavy taxation.
But the publication released Monday included new or seldom-discussed nuggets. One was an effort to promote formation of cooperatives that The Associated Press reported could function as midsize companies, selling products directly to consumers.
The document also said leaders should ''study a policy that allows Cubans living in the country to travel abroad as tourists.'' Tourist travel is already technically permitted, but an onerous, expensive bureaucratic process effectively halts all but select Castro loyalists from leaving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); SUGAR MARKETS (68%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



292 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Chairwoman At F.D.I.C. Is Departing

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Sheila C. Bair, one of the banking industry's most influential regulators and outspoken critics during the financial crisis, said on Monday that she planned to step down as chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on July 8.
Ms. Bair sounded some of the earliest alarm bells over the nation's worsening housing crisis during the boom and then helped orchestrate deals for hundreds of troubled banks when the financial markets collapsed. She has also been a staunch advocate of a controversial federal loan modification program and a prominent voice on the need to rein in too-big-to-fail banks. 
Ms. Bair, a Bush administration appointee who was named F.D.I.C. chairwoman in 2006, had been openly discussing her plans to step down when her five-year term expires this summer.
''I don't think these jobs should be forever,'' she said in a brief interview on Monday. ''We had a good run here.''
In the near term, Ms. Bair said she would like to serve on corporate boards outside the financial industry and write a book on the lessons she learned during the crisis. Longer term, she said she might be interested in leading a foundation and some day returning to government.
Martin J. Gruenberg, the F.D.I.C.'s vice chairman, is widely expected to take over for Ms. Bair, although he would require confirmation by the Senate first.
With Ms. Bair's departure, five of the nation's major financial regulatory agencies will be without permanent leaders. Although Elizabeth Warren was named the acting head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Obama administration has not decided whether it will nominate her to fill the slot. Also vacant are the top spots at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Federal Reserve's vice chairman for bank supervision, a new post.
A Republican with a progressive bent, Ms. Bair frequently clashed with fellow regulators in both the Bush and Obama administrations. In banking circles, she was privately derided by Wall Street executives and publicly heralded by smaller banks.
But in Washington, her prescient warning on housing and straight talk on the banks' troubles made her enormously popular with both Democratic and Republican lawmakers and transformed the once little-noticed agency into a power player in financial policy debates.
Ms. Bair shepherded the F.D.I.C. through one of its most turbulent periods as the number of troubled financial institutions surged and the deposit insurance fund plunged into the red. Since the financial crisis, the agency has overseen the takeover of more than 300 failed banks.
Although the fund still has a negative balance, Ms. Bair was lauded for finding ways to minimize its losses while devising a plan to get it back on track.
Some of Ms. Bair's other efforts have been more controversial. Her mortgage modification program became a template for a larger federal effort but has faced scrutiny for failing to permanently keep more borrowers in their homes. After a few months, critics say, far too many borrowers re-default on their loans.
Her role in the rescue efforts during the crisis has also come under fire. In the fall of 2008, Ms. Bair was among the top regulators who signed off on stabilizing the banks with tens of billions of dollars of federal money. Later she demanded that Citigroup replace its chief executive as a condition of a second rescue, though she ultimately backed down.
Her rescue of Washington Mutual helped protect the deposit insurance fund, but it engendered a raft of litigation from bondholders, who felt shortchanged and accused the agency of giving JPMorgan Chase a once-in-a-lifetime deal for the teetering bank. Citigroup officials privately sniped that she had unfairly allowed Wells Fargo to pry Wachovia out of their hands.
Those simmering tensions rose to a boil after a Citigroup official called the F.D.I.C. a ''tertiary regulator,'' prompting the agency to take a closer look at the bank's financial condition and call for a comprehensive review of the bank's leadership.
Among Ms. Bair's final acts will be writing rules requiring the biggest financial firms to plan for orderly liquidations should they face collapse. Last week, she warned of the risks they posed even after financial reform.
''This situation can only be regarded as a new and dangerous form of state capitalism, where the market assumes large, complex and powerful financial companies are in line to receive generous government subsidies in times of financial distress,'' she said. ''Unless reversed, we can expect to see more concentration of market power in the hands of the largest institutions, more complexity in financial structures and relationships, more risk-taking at the expense of the public, and, in due time, another financial crisis.''
Online Correction: May 9, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier headline on this article misstated the timing of Sheila Bair's departure as F.D.I.C. chairwoman. She plans to leave in July, not next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); ELIZABETH WARREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



293 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Rent vs. Buy, a Longer List

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Looking at rent ratios in 50 metropolitan areas. 

 BODY:
My column this week revisits the question of whether to buy a home or rent one. In the newspaper, we included a chart showing average rent ratios -- the purchase price of a house divided by the annual rent of a similar house -- for several metropolitan areas. Here, we include a longer list.
As a rule of thumb, when the ratio is below 15, people should lean toward buying a home. When it's above 20, they should lean toward renting. When it's in between, the decision should be based almost entirely on stage of life: Are you ready to settle into a home for at least five years, if not more. As I note in the column, your stage of life should often dictate your decision even when ratios are below 15 or above 20.
For the following metro areas, Moody's Analytics, which provided us with the data, had numbers going back to 1986:
For the following metro areas, the data goes back to only 1990: A comparison that includes the 1980s is a better one, because the 1980s was a decade when real estate boomed in many places while the 1990s was a decade in which some places, like California and New England, experienced a bust. The ideal long-term comparison includes both bull and bear markets.
For this reason, I would expect the 1990-2000 average, which appears with the charts in the newspaper, to be lower than the long-term average. We went with 1990-2000 so we could include areas for which the data begins in 1990.

        
Rent vs. Buy in Nine More Areas
        
But Aren't Home Prices Still Falling?
        
Is 15 a Better Rent-Ratio Cutoff?
        
The Banks Run an Experiment
        
Seattle's Foreseeable Housing Bust

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%) housing; real estate; rent vs. buy; renting; Housing and Real Estate; Renting and Leasing

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



294 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: A Family Tragedy in a Neo-Nazi Home

BYLINE: JAMES ESTRIN and DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: Julie Platner counted on Jeff Hall as entree to the National Socialist Movement. She could not have counted on how the story would end. 

 BODY:
"I'm trying to give human voice to people that most of society sees as monsters," saidJulie Platner, a 28-year-old photojournalist and video journalist in Brooklyn.
"I'm interested in truth at the end of the day."
This is a sound credo for anyone who sets out to document what is usually dismissed as the lunatic fringe. In the case of Jeff Hall, who led a Southern California chapter of the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement, the truth was complex and the circumstances unexpectedly tragic - "really shocking," to use Ms. Platner's words.
Mr. Hall, 32, was shot and killed at his home in Riverside, Calif., on May 1. The police have charged his 10-year-old son with the killing. In "Neo-Nazi Father Is Killed; Son, 10, Steeped in Beliefs, Is Accused," Jesse McKinley describes the National Socialist Movement, Mr. Hall's role in it and his surprising death.
Besides being a rising figure in the National Socialist Movement, Mr. Hall had also been Ms. Platner's principal contact with the group, which she has chronicled for more than a year. "He was the one who was most open to me coming," she said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. He was helpful in making introductions and would vouch for Ms. Platner when others objected to her presence. "We talked a lot," she said. Of Mr. Hall and his wife, Krista, she said, "I do believe in most ways they were good parents, despite the indoctrination of their children."
Ms. Platner was raised in Los Angeles. She graduated from Northeastern University and studied at the International Center of Photography. She worked in film production, including "Flight of the Conchords" on HBO. As a freelance photographer, she covered the earthquake in Haiti for The Wall Street Journal.
While covering the 2008 presidential campaign, Ms. Platner found herself growing interested in the large number of disaffected white people whom she encountered. "I think that since Obama was elected president, it's a little more acceptable to be outwardly racist," she said. "To explore that, I felt compelled to explore the extreme version of the story in a human way. I was interested in who they were and what they did. I think that they are pushed to the edge; almost like a white gang type of thing. They build a community. A lot of them are marginalized by society. Many are working-class people who have been hurt by the economic downturn."
It took about six months, Ms. Platner said, to persuade anyone in the neo-Nazi movement to let her photograph the group. About 10 months into her self-assigned project, she interested The New York Times in the topic, having already developed numerous contacts with the National Socialist Movement.
When she left Mr. Hall's home on April 30, Ms. Platner still had questions to ask him about his life and his family. Now, there will be no chance of an answer.

        
Lynsey Addario: 'It's What I Do'
        
Even the Middle Ground Is Perilous in Cairo
        
In Sadness, an Indomitable Humanity
        
Doug Mills at Ground Zero, 10 Years Later
        
Birds We Have Known, Emulated and Eaten

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); WRITERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); SHOOTINGS (69%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GANGS (50%) California; David W. Dunlap; Hate groups; James Estrin; Jeff Hall; Julie Platner; National Socialist Movement; Neo-Nazis; On Assignment; Hall, Jeff; Fringe Groups and Movements; Photography; National Socialist Movement (US); Los Angeles (Calif); Platner, Julie

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: National Socialist Movement (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%) Hall, Jeff

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



295 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Staying the Course, Post-Fukushima

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: The American nuclear industry insists it is still going strong -- although low demand for electricity and low prices for natural gas may get in the way. 

 BODY:
The "renaissance" that the American nuclear industry has been talking about for almost 20 years looks a bit slow and small at the moment, with two of the four leading reactor candidates chosen for aid by the Department of Energy apparently having fizzled. 
But post-Fukushima, the industry contends that it is still going strong -- although low demand for electricity and low prices for natural gas may get in the way. That was the argument advanced by Marvin S. Fertel, the chief executive of theNuclear Energy Institute, the industry's main trade association, at a convention of hundreds of nuclear executives in Washington on Tuesday. 
Mr. Fertel ticked off some encouraging signs:
 While only one new reactor has been commissioned since 1990, the industry has added 6,000 megawatts of capacity, the equivalent of five or six big new plants, by adding capacity to older reactors, and it is planning to add another 3,200 megawatts this way by 2015; 
 Two new plants with a total of four reactors are likely to be approved by by early next year. Construction of an old one, halted years ago, is resuming.
Mr. Fertel acknowledged nonetheless that public support for nuclear power, which was at 71 percent before a March 11 earthquake and tsunami set off the Fukushima disaster, now hovers around 50 percent "in most surveys." 
One problem for the industry, he said, is that the growth in demand for electricity has been stunted by the recession; the Energy Information Administration recently cut its estimate of growth to 1 percent a year. But even at that low rate, 220 big new generators would be needed by 2035, Mr. Fertel said, not counting generation needed because of the retirement of old coal-fired plants. 
So the long-term prospects are good, he insisted, even if "the near-term fundamentals are certainly more challenging.'' 
On another note, Mr. Fertel cast doubt on a form of aid that had been favored by both Republicans and Democrats: loan guarantees for new reactor construction. The federal government established a fund of $18.5 billion in the 2005 Energy Act, and Mr. Obama called for $36 billion more in next year's budget. 
In fact, with two of the leading four candidates for those loans having stumbled, it's not clear when the $18.5 billion will be absorbed.
Mr. Fertel said the additional $36 billion, plus a proposal for a "clean energy deployment administration" that would grant loans for nuclear and other low-pollution technologies, were now in doubt. "In the current economic climate, both proposals face a steep uphill climb,'' he said.

        
Solar, Wind, and Nuclear: South Africa's New Electricity Plan
        
Live-Blogging a Senate Briefing on Nuclear Safety
        
Senate to Hear Testimony on Nuclear Safety
        
On Our Radar: No Robots Deployed In Nuclear Crisis
        
Nuclear Plants Multiply in Developing Countries

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (96%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); ENERGY DEMAND (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); BUDGETS (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TSUNAMIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); WIND POWER PLANTS (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) loan guarantees; Nuclear Energy; Nuclear Energy Institute; nuclear power; reactors; Electric Light and Power; Federal Budget (US); Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (Japan); Japan Earthquake and Tsunami (2011); Natural Gas; Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Business; Energy Business; Energy Politics

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%) Nuclear Energy Institute; Nuclear Regulatory Commission

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



296 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Never Mention the Housekeeper

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The collective modern uneasiness with the idea of hired household help. 

 BODY:
There are certain words you learn to use carefully when you write about parenting. Breast-feeding is one. Co-sleeping is another. Home schooling is on the list, too. These are words that tend to divide parents by world views that they did not necessarily even know they had.
Other words subdivide us by politics and economic status, too. Private school. Nanny. Housekeeper.
In an essay on her blog, The Happiest Mom, last week, Meagan Francis tackles that last one head on. She opens by noting that the March family in "Little Women" -- a family whose fortune has been lost and who are so poor that there might be no gifts for Christmas -- still manages to employ Hannah, the family's live-in servant.
Ms. Francis continues: The Marches weren't unique. Going by the extensive reading of free and/or inexpensive classic novels I've had on my Kindle over the past year, many - perhaps most - "ordinary" families had some kind of hired help back then, even those who weren't very well off: whether it was a teen girl helping out in the kitchen, a boy to work on the farm or a local woman "taking in" the wash or even live-in cooks, nannies and other servants, having "help" was just an accepted fact of life among the middle classes.
Things have changed pretty dramatically in the American home over the last century or so -- economically, socially and technologically. And while families in the highest income brackets may still matter-of-factly employ full-time household staff, for the rest of us hiring outside help has become more complicated. We wonder if we seem snobby, entitled, spoiled? Are we exploiting the person we're hiring? And hey, with all these modern advances, shouldn't we really be able to do it all, all by ourselves, if we maybe just tried a little harder?
But while our jobs are probably less physically demanding than our great-great-grandmothers' were, that doesn't necessarily mean our lives are simpler. With more choice comes complication and busy-ness, and, I think, less of a feeling of knowing when we've done "enough." Plus, we've got so many roles to grapple with, we fear shortchanging one area will compromise our identities: can I really call myself a 'homemaker' if I don't do all the work myself?Ms. Francis says she was moved to write her essay because of reader response to an earlier post of hers, in which she mentioned that she employs "part-time household help - three to four hours at a time, twice a month." Sometimes it's childcare, sometimes cleaning. Comments poured in, accusing her of not being "up-front" about this fact on her blog in the past, with one reader telling Ms. Francis it would be harder to "identify with me as much as a homemaker, and that it materially changed the way she viewed my perspective and advice on cleaning, organizing and managing a home."
It's a debate that comes up regularly in the comments on Motherlode -- almost always on posts that only tangentially relate to hiring help. Most recently was a response to an essay by Mel Robbins, titled"Why Moms Should Quit." It was about sharing domestic chores more equally, particularly teaching your children to step up and shoulder some of the load. It didn't mention hiring help anywhere. Yet one of the first responses was from a ubiquitous and prolific commenter, Dr. Mark Klein, who griped:An article like this wouldn't be necessary if we still had a real middle class which could afford to hire household help. In the 1954 movie "Executive Suite," starring William Holden, a single income of less than $10,000 afforded a full-time housekeeper and a spacious suburban home. Without household help, full-time mothering is akin to slavery.Soon after, Ellen, from Boston, responded:That's pretty dismissive of people who could never afford such help, including domestic workers themselves. Who cleans their houses?That, in turn, inspired Amy, in Ohio, to write a poem:The wealthy man, he cannot stand,An unclean or cluttered home.It makes him think of nasty things,Like germs and dirt and worms.
So Wealthy hires upper classTo maintain villa and estateUpper class hires middle class;(Yups can't clean -- they work too late.)
Middle class hires working classFrom a cleaning serviceWorking class hires immigrants --Illegal, and quite nervous.
Immigrant sends money home;To his Mamma far away.Mamma hates a messy houseAnd so she hires maid.
Maid has a tiny houseA bit of Terre-a-Pied.The maid, she does not clean;A trained mouse does instead.
The mouse, she has a tiny nestOf leaves and twigs and fern.And when it gets too messyShe leaves it for the worms.
Worms don't mind dirty digs ---They taste of buttered toast.And when they're done, don't call it dirt --Their castings make great compost.
Should you ever think that wormsAre gross and damp and slimyRemember, they're who really keepYour kitchen nice and shiny.Now that we've thanked the worms, let's get back to Ms. Francis's question. What is it about household help that touches such a nerve? Is it envy that others can afford more, or outrage that domestic workers are being exploited, or a belief that one's own mess is one's own responsibility, that makes critics jump? Is it guilt at not being able to handle it all, or fear of being the exploiter, or sensitivity about looking "entitled," that makes so many employers defensive?
In other words, when did it go from being something Marmee assumed was part of managing her life, to something Ms. Francis feels the need to apologize for?
There is a "collective modern American uneasiness with the idea of hired household help," Ms. Francis writes. "We think it sounds nice, but maybe a little indulgent. Something that makes us a little soft and spoiled. I'm guessing housewives from the 1800s just saw hiring help as a really efficient way of delegating the tasks that fell to them in the overall job of running a household. Sure, they could probably manage without it, but why just "manage" if they didn't have to?"
Ms. Francis hopes to spark frank talk "about the way we feel about hired help and the way we use it - both to demystify the process, and also to destigmatize the idea of paying for help."
Use the comments to join in that conversation.

        
A Year of Parenting, 2
        
Poaching the Baby Sitter
        
A 12-Year-Old Babysitter?
        
Jobs for Kids
        
Cluttered Fridge Doors, Cluttered Lives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARENTING (89%); FAMILY (89%); BREASTFEEDING (78%); CHILD CARE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%) babysitting; Cleaning; history; housekeeping; housework; Sitters; Child Care; Domestic Service

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



297 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Major League Soccer: Little Fish, Little Pond

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON


HIGHLIGHT: The salaries of Major League Soccer players might make you feel a little bit better about pro sports in America. 

 BODY:
Every year, Major League Soccer Players Union releases the salaries of all players under contract in M.L.S. Those figures are just out, and they're worth a look. (Other people's salaries always are.) Depending on how you feel about lockouts and LOOGYs who get $8 million for two years, they might make you feel a little bit better about pro sports in America. Yes, there have been some ugly leg-breaking tackles of late. But at least our soccer players aren't a lot of spoiled rich guys, you know? By my quick count, only six players make more than the $1.2 million Bobby Bonilla will be getting from the Mets every year for the next 25 years (he retired from baseball in 2001, in case you're wondering why you haven't heard that name in a while). And if you pool the salaries of the two biggest names in M.L.S., David Beckham and Thierry Henry, you still won't have enough to cover Eddy Curry's $11 million-plus salary this past season.
What's more, for those troubled by the fact that that C.E.O.'s tend to make more than 300 times the median pay of American workers (see Steven Greenhouse's post on The Times's Economix blog), M.L.S. offers a much more pleasing antidote: while its commissioner, Don Garber, can make up to $3 million in a year, that's only 30 times as much as his workers' median pay. And speaking personally, it's nice to see that a publishing salary compares favorably with that of a lot of goalkeepers.
Still, if there are any fans of income inequality - capitalism revving as it should, punishing the indolent, inspiring the ambitious, rewarding the industrious - they have something to cheer about too. See Hector Jimenez, a midfielder making $32,604, or about 170 times less than his midfielder teammate Beckham. Left to be explained is why the latter's salary is precisely $5,500,00.08 and Henry's $5,000,000.04. Did their agents insist on the extra pennies?

        
The Runneth Overing of Cups
        
New York Should Get a Kick Out of King Eric
        
Freestyle Fellowship
        
The Story of Stan the Man
        
Does Anyone Feel a Draft?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); ATHLETES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); BASEBALL (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%) money; Soccer; Sports; Wages and Salaries; Major League Soccer

ORGANIZATION: Major League Soccer

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



298 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Why Spending Must Rise

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Age and doctors. 

 BODY:
Amazingly, proposals to cap federal spending at something like its recent historical average as a share of GDP still seem to be getting serious attention. The linked report, from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, explains carefully just how unrealistic this is. But I thought I could add a bit with a broad-brush approach.
The key thing to remember, always, is what the federal government does: it is basically an insurance company for old people that also has an army. Look at a normal year, like 2007 (things are distorted right now by the cost of safety net programs.) What you'll find is that about half of total spending was on programs for seniors: Social Security, Medicare, much of Medicaid, and other retirement and disability programs. Half the rest is defense.
So why can't this insurance company with an army make do with the same level of spending it had in 2007?
First and most obviously, the baby boomers are retiring. Look at the old-age dependency ratio. For the past 20 years we've had about 21 Americans over 65 for every 100 Americans between 20 and 64. But by 2020 that number will rise to 27.5; by 2030 it will rise to 35. So half the budget now is devoted to programs that will have to serve a lot more people fairly soon.
Add to this the rising cost of health care: even if we take strong steps to control costs (death panels!), costs will surely rise faster than GDP for some time to come.
And one more thing: yes, the deficits we've been running since the financial crisis -- deficits we had to run to avoid another Great Depression -- will mean higher interest costs, too.
This is why the idea of capping spending at historical levels, while it may sound reasonable if you don't know anything about these facts, is in fact a recipe for savage cuts in federal programs. If that's what you want to do, OK, go ahead and say that; but the whole point of the cap proposals is, of course, to call for drastic benefit cuts without admitting that that's the actual goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); AGING (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); MEDICAID (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



299 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Times Topics)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Getting Names Wrong

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: Here's a sadly familiar lament. Consider a week's worth of examples from our corrections: 

 BODY:
Notes from the newsroom on grammar, usage and style. (Some frequently asked questions are here.)
Here's a sadly familiar lament. Consider a week's worth of examples from our corrections:
4/28:An article in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the federal government's difficulty in divesting some of its real estate holdings misspelled the name of a deputy director in the Office of Management and Budget. He is Jeffrey D. Zients, not Jeffrey D. Zeints.
The Scene City column last Thursday misspelled the surname of a guest at the 30th anniversary party for the art magazine Bomb. She is A. M. Homes, not Holmes.
An article on March 17 about wearing stretch yoga pants at work misspelled part of the name of a woman who frequently wears them. She is Lisa Berlenbach Dixon, not Bierlenbach.
4/27:An article on Friday about military setbacks suffered a day earlier by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya misidentified the United Nations official who had described a flood of Libyan refugees into Tunisia. He is Firas Kayal, not Faras Kaya.
4/24:An article last Sunday in the special Education Life section about New York University's Abu Dhabi campus misspelled the name of a student. He is Laith Aqel, not Laif Aquel.
4/23:The High & Low Finance column on Friday, about the fraud conviction of Lee B. Farkas, a mortgage lender, misspelled part of the name of his firm. It is Taylor Bean & Whitaker, not Whittaker.
4/22:An article on Thursday about Mayor Bloomberg's visit to Coney Island to open an amusement park misstated the given name of the president of a company that designs and manufactures amusement park rides. He is Alberto Zamperla, not Antonio.
The DealBook column on Tuesday, about denials by Goldman Sachs that it had bet against the mortgage market before the housing collapse, misspelled, on second reference, the surname of the author of "Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World." As noted on first reference, he is William D. Cohan, not Cohen.
This is the latest illustration of an obvious point - if we could just get the names right, we would cut down drastically on our corrections and give an incalculable boost to our credibility. Every misspelled name leads a new group of disappointed readers to wonder: If they can't get the name right, what else in this article should I trust?
Some desks make it standard practice to put a "CQ" mark next to every name in a story, indicating that the spelling has been double-checked, with reporters and editors sharing the responsibility. Every desk should seriously consider some standardized approach. And if the crush of deadline requires that a story go through the first time more quickly than we'd like, the reporter and copy editor should circle back for checking before the next version is published.
In a Word
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
What with all this excitement, the lawmakers did not have enough time to make a miniscule change in a state law that would have allowed 20,000 residents to get extended unemployment benefits, which would have been paid for entirely by state funds.
Oh, that "mini" - so logical, so obvious, so wrong. It's "minuscule," of course. Think "minute," not "miniature." Put this in the same memory box with "supersede" (S, not C) and other frequently misspelled words, and trust your spelling checker.
The family, determined to prove what it believes was negligence, has resisted attempts to settle. Theirs is the last wrongful-death action still pending of more than 90 filed after the attacks. Thousands of other families avoided court and received payments through a victims' compensation fund.
If the family is a singular "it" in the first sentence, don't switch to plural "theirs" in the next; rephrase.
Q&A: An Easy Upgrade for E-Z Pass
Q. I've had an E-Z Pass to use with bridge and tunnel tolls around New York for years, but am wondering how long the battery lasts. Can I replace it myself if the battery dies?
Our style is "E-ZPass": no space.
Lieutenant Hollywood and other officers say one reason Starbucks is frequently the scene of thefts is because there are so many of the shops in the city: 298 and counting.
"Reason" and "because" are redundant together; make it "one reason is that."
It being a Friday night and all, a fair amount of children were milling about Yankee Stadium to watch the Yankees play Toronto, and the timing was fortuitous.
Make it "number of children." The introductory phrase may also have been a bit too folksy. And while we're at it - "fortuitous," strictly speaking, means "by chance," not "lucky," as we seem to have intended here.
But neither he nor Gee, who replaced him in the fifth, pitched well: both allowed four runs, and both gave up big home runs to Ryan Howard, who led Philadelphia to a 10-3 demolition of the Mets.
Make it "each allowed four runs, and each gave up a big home run "
"I feel really good that I'm helping the team,'' Colon said, before referencing Girardi, ''because in spring training he told me if anything happens, you're going to be the man, you're going to jump in the rotation.''
Let's avoid this fad jargon. "Mentioning" or "referring to" would have worked.
Conventional wisdom and the laws and constitutions of many states have long held that the pensions being earned by current government workers are untouchable. But as the fiscal crisis has lingered, officials in strapped states from California to Illinois have begun to take a second look, to see whether there might be loopholes allowing them to cut the pension benefits of current employees.
A colleague points out that we should be cautious in using "loophole." It suggests evasion and often conveys a hint of disapproval, so it may not always be seen as a neutral description. In this case, something like "provisions" or "legal ways" may have served.
Ms. Green, a cousin of Ms. Armstrong, said Mr. Pierre had limited the number of Ms. Armstrong's relatives who could attend the funeral and asked them to show identification at the door. She said she had been ejected out after she went to assist her 17-year-old son, who she said was being ''manhandled.''
This may be the result of incomplete editing or revision.
ABC's other contributors will include Tina Brown, the Newsweek and Daily Beast editor, who has a long-term contract with ''Good Morning America;'' one of Princess Diana's bridesmaids, India Hicks; and a former press secretary for Prince William, Colleen Harris.
The semicolon should go outside the quotation marks.
[Caption] An exhibit, above and below, at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles celebrates street art. The police said the show has prompted a rash of graffiti in the area, including an image on a utility box, left, and tags on a mural on a museum wall.
Sequence of tenses calls for "had prompted" or just "prompted."
It is as if a Sunbelt megachurch had been transplanted to Kiev, birthplace of Slavic Orthodoxy, land of onion-domed cathedrals and incense-shrouded icons.
The Times's stylebook specifies "Sun Belt."
How well a candidate is known at this stage of a campaign is not necessarily a reflection of where they will stand when the race engages in earnest.
The plural "they" doesn't agree with the singular "candidate." Simple fix: "How well candidates are known "
Sgt. Anthony Stegmeier, 27, of Indianapolis, is one of the few Company E members who was with the unit when it was stationed at this same outpost from March 2008 to March 2009.
Recorded announcement: In this construction, "who" refers to the plural "members," not the singular "one." Make it "one of the few who were with the unit."
''The priority this quarter has been to cut reckless government spending and set up their new offices and constituents' operation,'' said Joanna Burgos, a spokesperson for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
As the stylebook says, make it "a spokeswoman."
[Subheading] Bipartisan fears that a board could usurp Congress' power.
Make it "Congress's."
Neither her father nor her mother, Eleanore, who lives in St. Charles, Ill., were musical, although they encouraged Ms. Radvanovsky's talent, evident at an early age.
The neither/nor construction yields a singular subject; make it "was musical," or rephrase.
After Deadline examines questions of grammar, usage and style encountered by writers and editors of The Times. It is adapted from a weekly newsroom critique overseen by Philip B. Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, who is also in charge of The Times's style manual.

        
Bright Passages
        
Phrases Gone Astray
        
Words We Love Too Much
        
When Spell-Check Can't Help
        
Dashes Everywhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); WRITERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); YOGA (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); AMUSEMENT PARK EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); REFUGEES (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%) After Deadline; Grammar

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



300 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Will Pizza Delivery Chains Cry, 'Curse You, Red Baron'?

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Red Baron pan pizza will begin a campaign on Wednesday that takes a bold stance against delivery pizza. 

 BODY:
A brand of frozen pizza is getting tough with the people who deliver pizzas to consumers' homes.
Red Baron pan pizza, sold by the Schwan Consumer Brands unit of the Schwan Food Company, will begin a campaign on Wednesday that takes a bold stance against delivery pizza.
The campaign, by an agency in St. Louis named Cannonball, is going to be waged online rather than on television. Red Baron and Cannonball plan a series of six webisodes, featuring the comedian Howie Mandel, who is perhaps best known for hosting the TV game show "Deal or No Deal."
Not surprisingly, the campaign riffs off the Mandel game show connection, declaring that Red Baron pan pizza is the "real deal" compared with delivery pizza on attributes like taste, quality, speed and cost.
The campaign is another example of how when the economy gets tough, Madison Avenue gets tough, too, unleashing a spate of negative advertising.The trend was already in place before the financial crisis in 2008, but accelerated as the economic outlook soured. Among the brands involved were Campbell's and Progresso soups, Burger King, Apple and Dunkin' Donuts.
Another brand of frozen pizza, DiGiorno, has for many years tossed brickbats at delivery pizza, with campaigns that used the theme "It's not delivery, it's DiGiorno."
The Red Baron campaign is "in part a response" to the recent economic jitters created by rising gasoline prices, said Dan Hammer, senior vice president for marketing at Schwan Consumer Brands in Bloomington, Minn.
"Consumers are feeling the pressure now to stretch their food dollars," Mr. Hammer said.
The goal of the campaign is to demonstrate how a Red Baron pizza can cost less than a delivered pizza if a consumer takes into account the charges and tips associated with pizza delivery.
"We're trying to get the consumer to do the math," Mr. Hammer said.
"We want them to be thinking about it consciously," he added, rather than phoning for a pizza delivery out of habit.
"There's a lot of $10 pricing activity" among pizza delivery chains, Mr. Hammer said. "They don't talk about the $2.50 delivery charge or the tip."
"That $10 pizza is more like a $15 pizza when all is said and done," he added. By contrast, a Red Baron pan pizza can cost $5 to $7.
The webisodes will present Mr. Mandel visiting a family or friends who begin heating up a Red Baron pizza as Mr. Mandel calls a national pizza chain that makes deliveries to place an order.
The Web videos are to show viewers the conversations between the deliverers and Mr. Mandel - with the trade dress, or identifying brand marks, of the chains in question blurred or obscured.
The six webisodes will be available to watch on the Red Baron Facebook page, as well as on YouTube. The plan is for one to be uploaded each Wednesday, through June 15.
Each video is to run three or four minutes, far longer than the typical television commercial.
To talk about "the quality of the product" along with "price and value," Red Baron "needed more than the 30 seconds TV traditionally gives us," said Brian Fauss, creative director at Cannonball.
Using social media like Facebook and YouTube will also enable consumers who like the Web videos "to share them with friends," Mr. Fauss said.
There will be some advertising online to alert consumers to the Web series. Also, some of the webisodes may be edited to shorter lengths to run as preroll for online video clips.
This is the first time that Schwan Consumer Brands is sponsoring webisodes, Mr. Hammer said. "We love the idea we could tell the story in a different format," he added.
Red Baron joins a long list of consumer staples that have started using Web video series to promote products.
There is "the potential" at some point for versions of the Red Baron videos to "be used on TV," Mr. Hammer said.
He also plans, he said, to monitor sales and other data to see what the effects will be of running no television commercials for Red Baron while the webisodes are appearing online.
Red Baron was once known for a fleet of biplanes that traveled around the country, appearing in air shows, to promote the brand. The genesis of the promotion was the connection between the brand name and the Red Baron air ace of World War I fame, Manfred von Richthofen.
The Red Baron Pizza Squadron, as it was called, began in 1979, three years after Red Baron pizza was introduced, and was disbanded in 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FROZEN FOODS (90%); BRANDING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%) red baron; schwan consumer brands; advertising; Marketing

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); SCHWAN FOOD CO (91%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (68%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (68%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (91%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (68%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: HOWIE MANDEL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



301 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Killing Now Part of Obama Stump Speech

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Nine days after American commandos killed Osama bin Laden, President Obama has added the event to the rundown of administration achievements in his political stump speech. 

 BODY:
Nine days after American commandos killed Osama bin Laden, President Obama has added the event to the rundown of administration achievements in his political stump speech. Even so, a supporter beat him to it.
At a fundraiser in Austin on Tuesday evening, Mr. Obama ticked off the familiar list to the applause of the estimated 750 attendees - ending the recession, expanding health-care coverage, tightening financial regulation, rescuing the auto industry, naming two women to the Supreme Court, repealing the "don't ask, don't tell" law against openly gay soldiers, bringing combat troops home from Iraq. Then came the new line.
"And because of the extraordinary bravery of the men and women who wear this nation's uniform and the outstanding work of our intelligence agencies, Osama Bin Laden will never again threaten the United States of America," Mr. Obama said, provoking cheers and more applause. "We couldn't be prouder of them."
While Mr. Obama gave credit to others, his implicit share in that credit now seems likely to be a staple of his political message into the 2012 election season. Since Bin Laden's death, Mr. Obama previously had spoken of it, also in patriotic and national security terms, in public events at ground zero in Lower Manhattan and to troops at Fort Campbell, Ky. 
Mr. Obama got to the topic nearly eight minutes into his 18-minute pep talk to his Democratic supporters. But minutes before that a man yelled out, "Thank you for gettin' Bin Laden!"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



302 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: And the G.O.P. Candidates Are ...

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS AND GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: A look at who the Republican presidential hopefuls are at this stage in the game. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, this is an extremely exciting week. Newt Gingrich is preparing once againto announce the formation of a presidential exploratory committee. I don't think I've been this excited since last week when a guy came to read our gas meter. 
Suddenly, we're knee-deep in Republican presidential hopefuls! So today I thought we could share our opinions of the whole bunch, beginning with Newt. He's the kind of politician you want around when it's time to brainstorm and you need an unfettered intellectual id to juice things up. But isn't an undisciplined bomb-thrower the last thing you want in a president? Even the adultery-multiple-marriages saga is about a guy who gets carried away.
David Brooks: Gail, these guys will make you love them. You may be skeptical of the G.O.P. field now, but they will woo, and you will resist; they will woo, and you will resist; and at last stout ardor will win fair heart; and as the harvest moon rises you will be smitten with Michele Bachmann, gaga over Gingrich or even languid at the thought of that Godfather's Pizza guy. You'll see, by the time this is over, you're going to say nice things about one of the Republicans, at least. 
I'm not sure it will be Newt, though. He loves his ideas powerfully but not long. He has 14 world historical ideas per hour, two of which are good and the rest of which are around the bend. Sources of mine who worked in and around the speaker's office still marvel at his ability to disorganize any operation. When it comes to management he has the power of the Harvard Business School except in reverse, and that will be his undoing.
Gail Collins: On the total other side of the pack, what about Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana? He's supposed to announce his intentions soon. I find his whole I-don't-want-to-do-this-but-duty-calls routine off-putting. When I was a kid, the nuns showed us pictures of saints who were summoned by God to go forth and be martyred in a den of lions, and they didn't look as reluctant as Daniels does.
David Brooks: I just saw Daniels in Indianapolis last week. He had just passed his education reform package, which makes Indiana the leader in the nation when it comes to school reform. I saw him at an event after a signing ceremony and, as charged up as he was, his emotional range still doesn't go above folksy. He described the bill in a way that was detailed and enthusiastic, but without the soaring sense of purpose that almost all other politicians either master or fake.
The older I get, the more I like self-effacing people, and I'm really curious to see if someone self-effacing can win the presidency in this day and age. I'm also curious to know if someone who is honest about our fiscal predicament can win, even in a G.O.P. primary. 
I really hope Daniels runs, because he is managerially impressive, and because I want my curiosity satisfied.
Gail Collins: Mike Huckabee. I used to have a sort of soft spot for Huckabee. He seemed to have a genuinely saintly streak, which caused him to defend illegal immigrants and give pardons to criminals who were perhaps a little less rehabilitated than he had imagined. Now he's repudiated all of that, and the only difference between him and the pack is that he knows less about foreign policy.
David Brooks: Huckabee is a wonderful guy to be around. I just don't think he feels in his soul that politics is the most important venue for social change. I think he is more drawn to the word and the prayer than to the bill and the federal agency. I don't blame him for thinking these things (I think them too) but I don't think he's running because he is not passionately committed to governance.
Gail Collins: Do you want to throw a bone to any of the guys who showed up for that Fox debate in South Carolina? The consensus seemed to be that Ron Paul and Herman Cain got the most traction. Paul is a sort of Dennis Kucinich of the right, with an intense but narrow following and an almost painful quotability. ("How many people here would use heroin if it were legal? I bet nobody.") Cain is the lovable-longshot that shows up in almost every race. But I suspect he's the first sympathetic also-ran to vow that as president, he would totally discriminate against one religious group (Muslims) when hiring an administration.
David Brooks: Well, there's Tim Pawlenty. My big question is this: Is there something distinct about the way he sees the world? He has a working-class background, which is good, but so far he has presented himself as an orthodox Republican. That may make him seem a little too eager to please. It may rob him of any flavor and spice.
Gail Collins: Every time a new potential hero shows up in the Republican pack, I see it as another cry of desperation: Please not Mitt Romney. What is it that everybody hates so much about this guy? That he pioneered the Obama health care reform plan in Massachusetts and now denies it? That he's ardently anti-abortion after having run for governor vowing endlessly to protect abortion rights? That he drove to Canada with the family dog strapped on the roof of his car? Or is it just something about the hair?
David Brooks: I'm going with the hair. It's true that outside of New Hampshire there is very little love for the guy. A political consultant friend tells me that the anti-Mormon sentiment is deeper than I think. I wonder if he's going to be a different candidate this time - if he's going to go all economy all the time. I sure hope so. That is his authentic self, and if the unemployment rate is about 8 this time next year, then Obama will certainly be vulnerable. Romney may not be the perfect candidate but if the country is in the mood to dump Obama, he certainly would be acceptable. 
Gail Collins: The latest save-us-from-Mitt entry seems to be Jon Huntsman, the former governor of Utah who was ambassador to China until a minute or two ago. (And as President Obama keeps saying, one terrific member of his administration.) In his first post-ambassador address, Huntsman said he thought the country needed "a new set of eyeballs" in Washington. There's something grisly about that image.
David Brooks: I confess Huntsman is probably closer to where I am politically, but I just don't see how anybody who worked with Obama is well positioned to do anything but get humiliated among primary voters. I could be wrong, but I remain to be convinced. The final thing to say is this. Candidates don't make campaigns. Campaigns make candidates. One of these people is going to look a lot stronger in a year than they do today. And at some point through the coming fall and winter, I'm going to get you to love one of these men or women.
Gail Collins: Let's consider that a challenge. Game on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); EDUCATION REFORM (67%) Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; The Conversation

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); MITCH DANIELS (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%) Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%) INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



303 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Romney to Deliver Health Care Speech in Michigan

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney is often asked about health care. On Thursday, he will talk about it. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is often asked about health care. On Thursday, he will talk about it.
Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts and likely a Republican presidential candidate, is scheduled to deliver a health care address at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. It marks the first time that Mr. Romney has dedicated an entire speech to health care, an issue that is among his biggest challenges in his second attempt at the Republican presidential nomination.
Mr. Romney signed a health care bill when he was governor of Massachusetts that is similar to the federal health care law President Obama signed last year. Mr. Romney has repeatedly denounced the federal law, and said states should be allowed to opt out of the program. But he has struggled to quiet critics who believe the Massachusetts law was a mistake.
In the speech at the University of Michigan Cardiovascular Center, aides said, Mr. Romney will outline his plan to repeal and replace the federal law that critics refer to as "Obamacare." Mr. Romney has picked a neutral site in a friendly state -- Mr. Romney's father, George W. Romney, was a three-term governor there, and Mitt Romney won the 2008 Republican primary in Michigan, which is not in one of the four early-voting states in 2012.
The appearance in Michigan, where he announced his 2008 presidential campaign, comes as Mr. Romney is steadily stepping up the pace of his 2012 exploratory campaign. He is set to make his first trips of the year to South Carolina and Iowa this month.

        
Romney Talks Economy in Nevada
        
Axelrod and Romney Aide in Twitter Exchange
        
Hopefuls and No-Shows at 2011 CPAC
        
Romney Outpaced Potential Rivals in 2010 Fund-Raising
        
New Palin Book Offers a Road Map for a Run Against Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%) 2012 presidential campaign; health care; mitt romney; Romney, Mitt; Michigan; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



304 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Many Latino voters, who went heavily for President Obama in 2008, are disappointed that he has not done more on immigration. 

 BODY:
As a candidate, President Obama promised Latino voters that he would aggressively push for passage of a comprehensive immigration bill during his first year in office.
"What I can guarantee is that we will have in the first year an immigration bill that I strongly support and that I'm promoting," Mr. Obama said in an interview with the Spanish-language broadcaster Univision in 2008.
Now, facing a reelection campaign next year, the White House is embarking on a public relations effort to reassure Latino supporters who say they are frustrated by the president's failure to deliver on his immigration promise.
On Tuesday, Mr. Obama will travel to the United States border with Mexico to kick off a series of community conversations about the need for immigration reform. In a speech in El Paso, Mr. Obama will urge Congress to act, though officials said he will not unveil legislation nor demand a specific timeline.
"He's trying to lead a constructive and civil debate on America's broken immigration system," a senior White House official said, speaking on background ahead of the president's speech. "What the president is hoping to do is to drive momentum."
Latino voters sided overwhelmingly for Mr. Obama in the 2008 election, with 67 percent picking the Democratic presidential ticket, according to exit polls. Rapid growth in the Hispanic population, especially in critical states in the Southwest, make the Latino population important for the president next year as he seeks another term.
In his speech, Mr. Obama plans to issue what officials said will be a "call to action" in which he urges Americans to pressure Republicans in Congress. The officials said the president will lay out his administration's efforts to secure the border and will promote the economic benefits of a comprehensive immigration overhaul.
The president, officials said, wants to "create a sense of urgency around the country that matches his sense of urgency."
But liberal and conservative Latino activists in Washington say the president will need to do more than that if he hopes to persuade Latinos that he deserves their support in 2012.
"If they think that this is going to be the thing that mobilizes an increasingly disappointed Latino electorate, I think they're wrong," Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice Education Fund, a pro-immigration reform group, said in an interview Monday.
Mr. Sharry said the likelihood of a grand immigration bargain with Congressional Republicans is all but dead. But he said Mr. Obama needs to offer his Latino supporters bold executive action - such as limiting the numbers of people being deported - to prove that he is trying to accomplish something.
"They are going to have to have to make some big administrative action to make up for the fact that he promised big," Mr. Sharry said.
Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, called Mr. Obama's speech "purely political" and said Latino voters will not be moved by words alone.
Mr. Aguilar, who served as the chief of the office of citizenship in George W. Bush's administration, said Mr. Obama needs to propose specific legislation and begin discussions with House Speaker John Boehner and the Republican leadership in the Senate.
"He's talking to everyone except those people who really count," Mr. Aguilar said. "At the end, you can do all the events that you want, but if Latinos don't see any serious action on immigration it won't matter. We need to see a White House plan."
Mr. Obama has said repeatedly that he needs to see some indication from Republicans that they are willing to seriously consider a comprehensive approach to immigration before the issue can move forward. In a speech in July of 2010, Mr. Obama blamed the other party for keeping the issue in gridlock.
"I'm ready to move forward. The majority of Democrats are ready to move forward, and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward," Mr. Obama said at American University. "But the fact is, without bipartisan support, as we had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this problem."
But Republican leaders who once supported such efforts, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, have signaled they have little interest in working with Mr. Obama. After pushing the issue during his primary campaign in 2007, Mr. McCain has dropped his support for comprehensive immigration reform, stressing the need for increased border security first.
In the short term, a stalemate could be challenging for Mr. Obama as he tries to explain to his once-committed supporters why he was able to make progress on health care and other issues, but not on immigration.
But White House officials have said they believe the long-term issue favors Democrats as the growth in the Latino population coincides with the increasingly aggressive tone from Republican politicians. Last year's debate over an Arizona immigration law highlighted Republican rhetoric that angered many Latinos.
Mr. Aguilar conceded that Latino disappointment with Mr. Obama could be offset by anger at the harsh rhetoric coming from some Republicans.
"What we are telling Republicans is that if you follow the strategy of four years ago, you are not going to win enough Latino voters to win the White House," Mr. Aguilar said. "Republicans have an opportunity. But it all depends at the end if the president acts and what the reaction of Republicans is."
"If they pull a McCain," Mr. Aguilar said, "then they are not going anywhere."
White House officials said Mr. Obama will offer on Tuesday a "blueprint" for making progress toward an immigration overhaul and said it would look similar to the statements he has made over the past year.
"The president is leaning in and asking others to lean in with him," one official said.

        
The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President
        
Best Political Quotations of the Weekend
        
2008: Iowa Remains a Destination
        
2008: Immigration Fallout
        
In Bin Laden Announcement, Echoes of 2007 Obama Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DEPORTATION (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (56%) 2008; barack obama; Congress; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; immigration; john mccain; Republicans; Senate; Bush, George W; McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Immigration and Emigration; House of Representatives; United States; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%) Bush, George W; McCain, John; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



305 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Fighting Words

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: The latest political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
 At the White House this morning, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.. is set to host a second round of talks about raising the federal debt ceiling. In a speech yesterday in New York, the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio outlined Republicans' demands for trillions of dollars in spending cuts that would exceed the amount of the debt increase, Carl Hulse writes.
 Mr. Boehner also made a trip to western New York to help a Republican candidate struggling to win the seat vacated recently by former Representative Christopher Lee. Raymond Hernandez explains how the seat in a Republican-dominated district suddenly became the focus of a tug-of-war between the two major parties. A special election is scheduled for May 24.
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, will announce Wednesday that he is jumping into the Republican contest for the White House. Sheryl Gay Stolberg looks at the leading role his wife, Callista, has had in changing the former congressman's image to run for president.
 Edward Wyatt reports that federal regulators, state and national law enforcement officials, and cellphone companies will unveil an emergency alert system for cellphones. He writes that users in the New York and Washington metro areas will soon be able to receive text alerts whenever there is a threat of imminent danger, whether related to national security or the weather. Next year, the program will be expanded across the country.
Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, will step down in July after her five-year term expires. Eric Dash discusses Ms. Bair's influence in the banking industry as one of its most powerful regulators. He reports that Martin J. Gruenberg, the F.D.I.C.'s vice chairman, is widely expected to take over for Ms. Bair, assuming he is confirmed by the Senate.
Around the Web: The Senate Banking Committee will vote Thursday on Peter T. Diamond's nomination to join the board of governors of the Federal Reserve, but the economist's confirmation by the full Senate appears doubtful because of opposition from the panel's ranking Republican, Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, according to The Wall Street Journal.
President Obama is heading to Texas today. His first stop in the Lone Star State is the border city of El Paso, where he will push for fixing the immigration system, according to the White House. Afterward, he will go to Austin for two Democratic National Committee fund-raisers.The Washington Post looks at the debate over immigration policy rekindled by Mr. Obama's trip. 
Happening in Washington: Phil Angelides, the chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, testifies at 10 a.m. before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on the commission's final report.
 Also at 10, officials from Apple and Google will testify before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law in a hearing focused on consumer data privacy on cellphones and other mobile devices.

        
Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
        
Democrats Press Boehner on Debt Ceiling
        
Organizing Now, Democrats Expect Tough Bid in 2012
        
With Barbour Out, Hill Republicans Lose Big Voice in Budget Battles
        
A Non-Paul Libertarian Joins the Republican Fray

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IMMIGRATION (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BOARD CHANGES (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (64%) debt ceiling; immigration; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); SHEILA BAIR (68%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (66%); EL PASO, TX, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



306 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Microsoft to Buy Skype for $8.5 Billion | Microsoft announced on Tuesday that it would buy Skype Global for $8.5 billion in cash, in its largest acquisition ever.
In Skype, Microsoft is buying the leader in Internet voice and video communications, with 107 million users a month connected for more than 100 minutes a month, on average. That large and active user base represents a major asset, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said in an interview. "It's an amazing customer imprint," Mr. Ballmer said. "And Skype is a verb, as they say."
Skype burst onto the scene in 2003 and has long been seen as a challenger to the telephone companies because it can route phone calls - and video calls - over the Internet free or for a nominal fee. Most telephone carriers have come to accept Skype, but still see it as a potential threat. DealBook
DEAL NOTES
Buffett Applies for a Job in 'The Office' | NBC confirmed that Warren E. Buffett would make a cameo in Thursday's episode of "The Office," interviewing for the job as a successor to Michael Scott, the character Steve Carell played until last month.VARIETY
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Once Vultures, Unwanted Suitors Now Seen as Strategists | Hertz made a friendly, yet unsolicited takeover bid for Dollar Thrifty on Monday, but other deal makers have been far more aggressive of late.DealBook
YouTube Co-Founders Continue Shopping Spree | Following a deal last month to buy Delicious, Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, the co-founders of YouTube, have announced plans to purchase Tap11, an analytics firm that tracks social media.BITS | PRESS RELEASE
After Merger, Southwest Airlines Looks to Expand | With its recent purchase of AirTran Holdings, Southwest Airlines is now looking to carve out a place in Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the world's busiest airport, in what it hopes will be a nationwide expansion.WALL STREET JOURNAL | ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION
Nasdaq and ICE Make Their Case to Hedge Funds | The Nasdaq OMX Group and the IntercontinentalExchange have been holding talks with merger arbitrage hedge funds, hoping to persuade them to vote against NYSE Euronext's proposed merger with Deutsche Borse, The Financial Times reported.FINANCIAL TIMES
Foreign Creditors Press Greece on Asset Sales | The government, hit with a fresh downgrade of its debt, wants to authorize the selling of stakes in three utilities: the Greek railway, the racetrack and the national lottery.NEW YORK TIMES
Ally Financial Is Said to Be in Talks for ING Unit | The automobile and home mortgage lender Ally Financial is looking to acquire the ING Group's American online banking business, ING Direct USA, which could fetch as much as $10 billion in a sale, The New York Post reported.NEW YORK POST
Nvidia Buying a Chip Maker | The Nvidia Corporation plans to buy the privately held cellphone chip maker Icera for $367 million in cash, stepping up competition against Qualcomm and Intel in the smartphone chip market.REUTERS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Is BP's Russian Truce Just a Lull in the Hostilities? | Last week's truce between BP and its oligarch partners in Russia has not settled the dispute for good, and the British oil company may have to pay even more for its new Russian deal with the Kremlin-backed Rosneft, Reuters says.REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Morgan Stanley Lost Money on Just 3 Days in First Quarter | The Wall Street firm's 10-Q filing comes a week before management faces shareholders at its annual meeting.DealBook
Bank of America to Cut Troubled Loans By Half | Bank of America over the next three years plans to halve its $850 billion portfolio of soured home loans, many stemming from the ill-fated acquisition of Countrywide Financial, the Financial Times reported.FINANCIAL TIMES
Citi Takes Hit After Reverse Split | Citigroup discovered on Monday that reverse splits can be a somewhat painful exercise. The bank's shares closed down 2.3 percent after it enacted a reverse 1-for-10 split that could be fruitful years from now, but for now is tough going.REUTERS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Barclays Gets $1.1 Billion from Lehman Bankruptcy | Barclays has scored a $1.1 billion victory in its continuing mission to recover assets from Lehman Brothers, as an American bankruptcy court ruled that the collapsed bank's trustee must hand over the sum. A further $2 billion remains in dispute.FINANCIAL TIMES
BNP Chairman Expected to Step Down | Michel Pebereau is to say au revoir to his role as chairman of France's largest bank, a company he has lead for more than 20 years and guided through the financial crisis, transforming it from bit player to one of the world's most successful lenders.FINANCIAL TIMES
Wells Fargo to Acquire Bank of Ireland's Currency Wholesaler | Wells Fargo is set to purchase nearly all of the Foreign Currency Exchange Corporation's American assets, a subsidiary of The Bank of Ireland, Wells Fargo said on Monday.WALL STREET JOURNAL | PRESS RELEASE
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Terra Firma Plans $777 Million Bond Sale | Terra Firma, the buyout shop run by Guy Hands, has set out plans for a bond sale to refinance its Odeon & UCI cinema chain -- currently the target of rivals like BC Partners and Omers Private Equity -- as well as to finance its own acquisitions.FINANCIAL TIMES
Apollo Gains on Favorable Ratings | Shares of Apollo Global Management, which went public in March, closed up almost 3 percent on Monday, as analysts at Wells Fargo and Credit Suisse awarded the private equity firm's stock favorable ratings and price targets.BARRON'S | 24/7 WALL ST.
Farming for Organic Deals | Seeking to capitalize on increasing consumer demand for organic products and a widening pool of environmentally minded investors, Farmland, a start-up private equity firm, is acquiring conventional farmland and converting it to organic practices.INC.COM
Serco in Talks With Blackstone Over Intelenet Stake | The British outsourcing group Serco's reported discussions to buy the Blackstone Group's 66 percent stake in Intelenet Global Services is the latest sign of consolidation in India's outsourcing industry, while signaling the international ambitions of Serco as well, The Financial Times said.FINANCIAL TIMES
BC Partners to Buy Gruppo Coin | The private equity firm BC Partners agreed to buy the Italian clothing retailer Gruppo Coin from PAI of France in a deal valuing the company at close to 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion), including debt.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE
HEDGE FUNDS 
Paulson Stands to Win Big from Lehman Bust | Paulson & Company may make a profit of $350 million to $726 million on Lehman Brothers debt that the hedge fund, run by John Paulson, bought at greatly discounted prices during the last two and a half years, The Wall Street Journal reported.WALL STREET JOURNAL | BLOOMBERG NEWS
National Express and Elliott Advisors Reach Last-Minute Deal | Elliott Advisors, the activist hedge fund, has agreed to back the management of National Express at the British transport operator's annual shareholder meeting on Tuesday.DealBook
Berkowitz 'Wrong' on A.I.G. Price? | Bruce Berkowitz, manager of the $17.5 billion Fairholme fund and A.I.G's biggest private shareholder, said he thought the government would sell shares in A.I.G. for $27 to $29 each, a price that would be less than what he paid for the bulk of his position, The Wall Street Journal reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chelsea Clinton's Husband Said to Plan New Hedge Fund | Marc Mezvinsky, who left his job at the hedge fund 3G Capital this year to hit the slopes in Jackson Hole, Wyo., is planning to start his own hedge fund along with "two guys from Goldman Sachs," The New York Daily News reports. Mr. Mezvinsky, who worked at Goldman Sachs from 2002 to 2008, is said to be shooting to start up in the next few months.NEW YORK DAILY NEWS | DEALBOOK
Burbank Still Betting on Gold | John Burbank of Passport Capital, one of the hedge fund managers whose move to trim some of his gold holdings caused a stir in the markets last week, told Bloomberg Television that the sell-offs were short-term, adding that his fund still had investments across a broad spectrum of commodities.BLOOMBERG NEWS | BARRON'S | GURUFOCUS
Tallying Icahn's Biotech Bets | Just how much money has Carl C. Icahn made investing in and shaking up Biogen Idec and Genzyme, the leading biotechnology companies in Massachusetts? According to The Boston Globe's Steven Syre, the answer is somewhere in the neighborhood of a billion dollars, which, as they say, is a very nice neighborhood indeed.BOSTON GLOBE
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
LinkedIn and Freescale Join Surge of I.P.O.'s | Technology companies are responding to investor demand, but some recent stock market entrants have cooled off after strong debuts.DealBook
Inside Secure Hires Banks for I.P.O. | The chip maker Inside Secure, which is hoping to benefit from technology that allows shoppers to buy goods with the wave of a smartphone, has hired BNP Paribas and Jefferies to prepare for an initial public offering in Paris, Reuters reported.REUTERS
Treasury Wine Estates Completes Spinoff | Treasury Wine Estates, the world's second-largest winemaker, fell in Sydney trading, giving the company a market value of $2.3 billion after its spinoff from the Foster's Group was completed.BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Inside the Groupon-Live Nation Deal | Groupon is joining with Live Nation Entertainment to create GrouponLive, a discount ticket seller. In an interview with CNBC, Groupon chief's executive, Andrew Mason, and Live Nation's chief executive, Michael Rapino, discuss the rationale behind the deal and their strategy to "grow the pie" of online event marketing.DealBook
Social Networks Offer a Way to Narrow the Field | A new crop of start-ups that allow people to connect with a handful of friends in a private group are allowing users to get the benefits of sharing without the strangeness that can result when social worlds collide on Facebook.NEW YORK TIMES
Shasta Ventures Leads Round for LiquidSpace | It seems investors are buying into LiquidSpace's vision for connecting mobile workers with workspaces, injecting $3.6 million in the start-up in its first institutional round of funding.VENTUREBEAT
The Maverick of Silicon Valley | Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Netscape, is new to the venture capital scene and is already hunting big game. Buying into big-name Tech start-ups like Facebook is not easy, however, and Mr. Andreessen is -- at his own expense -- breaking the rules to work his way into the most lucrative of the private deals.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Tech Hiring Leads California Resurgence | Technology hiring is spurring an economic recovery in California, America's wealthiest state, with 90,600 jobs created in the first quarter as companies based in San Francisco, including LinkedIn, as much as tripled their work forces.WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Dodd-Frank Dissenters Sound Off | At a conference, some in the banking industry had little good to say about the Dodd-Frank legislation meant to keep banks from failing.DealBook
F.D.I.C. Chairwoman to Leave in July | The agency has announced that Sheila C. Bair plans to step down on July 8 at the end of her five-year term.DealBook
Madoff Trustee Reaches Deal With Fairfield Funds | Irving H. Picard, the trustee seeking money for victims of Bernard L. Madoff's giant Ponzi scheme, announced a $1 billion settlement with liquidators for three so-called feeder funds linked to the Fairfield Greenwich Group, allowing higher payouts to the swindler's former customers.REUTERS
Mortgage Fraud Appears to Be Rocketing | Reports of mortgage fraud reached their highest point last year, according to figures from The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. The Treasury Department said it received 70,472 "suspicious activity reports" in 2010, compared with about 37,000 in 2006 and just 4,695 in 2001. Many of the incidents reported took place years ago, and are only now coming to light.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Avoiding Greece's Lehman Moment | The debts of Greece should be restructured without hurting the rest of the euro zone, Reuters Breakingviews writes.REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (85%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); RISK ARBITRAGE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); DIVESTITURES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LOTTERIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); AIRPORTS (67%); NETWORK TELEVISION (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); INTERNET BANKING (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (94%); SKYPE SARL (92%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (80%); ING GROEP NV (61%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%); ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (51%); ING BANK FSB (50%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); INGA (BIT) (61%); INGA (AMS) (61%); ING (NYSE) (61%); LUV (NYSE) (53%); ICE (NYSE) (52%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%); NYX (PAR) (51%); NYX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (79%); STEVE CARELL (75%); WARREN BUFFETT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



307 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Without Concessions, Connecticut Starts Layoff Process

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
HARTFORD -- A week after shepherding into law the largest tax increase in Connecticut history, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy began issuing layoff notices on Tuesday to the first of more than 4,700 state employees facing dismissal, after two months of negotiations with unions failed to reach an agreement on worker concessions and budget cuts.
Both sides said talks would continue and expressed hope for a breakthrough, but the notices marked an impasse that might have seemed unlikely when Mr. Malloy, a Democrat, was elected in November with heavy union support. The governor has warned of layoffs and wrenching program cuts since he announced his proposed spending plan on Feb. 16, saying that significant concessions from state workers and substantial program cuts were needed to produce a balanced budget. 
Last week, the legislature passed a two-year, $40.1 billion budget that assumed $1 billion each year in concessions. The notices sent on Tuesday were a reminder that those savings are still assumed rather than real, and that the alternative is thousands of layoffs, which the governor said would save the state about $455 million, as well as $545 million in additional spending cuts across state government.
''I want to be clear that this is not the road I wanted to go down,'' Mr. Malloy said in a statement. ''I didn't want to lay people off, and I didn't want to make additional spending cuts beyond the $780 million in spending we've already cut. But I have no choice.''
''I promised to deliver a budget that is balanced with no gimmicks,'' he added, ''and I will.''
The notices went to the first of 4,742 employees singled out for layoffs, which would be effective in the new fiscal year, beginning July 1. Program cuts are likely to push the number to more than 5,000 out of a full-time work force of more than 46,000.
But rather than a decisive line in the sand, the layoff notices were described by both sides as part of a process that seems to be unfolding in the traditional, protracted rhythms of labor negotiations. Neither side seemed inclined to set rigid deadlines.
''We're going to keep talking until we reach a mutual agreement,'' said Matt O'Connor, a spokesman for the consortium of unions negotiating with the state. ''The hope,'' he added, ''is we reach a mutual agreement sooner rather than later, but that's been the hope all along.''
Roy Occhiogrosso, a Malloy spokesman, said the governor sent out the notices reluctantly. ''I think he has the sense that not enough progress has been made to warrant delaying another day or two, and he felt it was important to begin this process in an orderly fashion in case no deal is reached,'' Mr. Occhiogrosso said. ''You can't wait until the very end of the process and then do all the catching up.''
The layoffs vary across departments and agencies. The most would come at the Education Department, which would lose 1,413 of its 1,706 employees, including large numbers of teachers at vocational-technical schools. Also included in the cuts are 471 jobs in higher education, including the Connecticut state university system, and an additional 285 jobs at the University of Connecticut. With the state trying to maximize tax collections, largely spared is the Department of Revenue Services, where only 1.6 percent of the work force would be laid off.
Union officials said the layoffs would be disastrous at a time of widespread unemployment.
''Layoffs aren't good for the economy; whether they're private sector or public sector, it doesn't make a difference,'' Mr. O'Connor said. ''The last thing Connecticut needs is more job cuts.''
Mr. Malloy said the concessions he sought in wages, health care and pension benefits were aimed at both the short-term savings necessary to balance this budget and the long-term structural savings needed to make state government sustainable.
''The state employee representatives have thus far not offered enough,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



308 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
U.S. STILL WAITS FOR ACCESS
TO BIN LADEN'S WIDOWS
The dispute over access for American officials to Osama bin Laden's three widows, who were taken into Pakistani custody after the raid that killed the leader of Al Qaeda, has become the latest test in the adversarial relationship between the C.I.A. and its Pakistani counterpart, Inter-Services Intelligence. PAGE a8
National 
GOOGLE LOBBIES NEVADA
TO ALLOW DRIVERLESS CARS
Google, a pioneer of driverless cars, is quietly lobbying for legislation that would make Nevada the first state where they could be legally operated on public roads. And the proposed legislation would include an exemption from the ban on distracted driving to allow occupants to send text messages while sitting behind the wheel. PAGE A14
RESHAPING MEDICAID
As Republicans inch away from their plan to reshape the nation's Medicare program, their equally transformative ideas for Medicaid, now largely in the shadows of the budget debate, are moving front and center. PAGE A17
GINGRICH'S LONG ODDS
Now that Newt Gingrich has decided to enter the 2012 campaign, political handicappers are wondering what he may be thinking, given the long odds he faces. But he is, by training and temperament, an avid historian, and a true believer in the concept of destiny. Matt Bai, Political Memo. PAGE A16
SETTLEMENT ON SPECIES
The Interior Department, facing an avalanche of petitions and lawsuits over proposed endangered species designations, said Tuesday that it had negotiated a settlement in which it will make decisions on 251 species over the next six years. PAGE A14
New York
NEW TEACHERS FACE LAYOFFS
IN BLOOMBERG BUDGET
Because state law dictates that the last teachers hired must be the first dismissed, many of those who will receive pink slips if the mayor's budget is approved by the City Council are young idealists whom the mayor and like-minded reformers had rallied to the city's most challenging classrooms. PAGE A19
CORONA'S CROWDED SCHOOLS
As immigrant families have flooded into Corona, Queens, in recent years, their children have poured into the neighborhood's schools. Crowding has been an issue for at least two decades, but it has been especially severe since 2005. PAGE A18
Business
FED RETREAT ON MORTGAGES
MAY HURT UPSCALE HOUSING
For the last three years, federal agencies have backed new mortgages as large as $729,750 in desirable neighborhoods in high-cost states. But now Democrats and Republicans agree that taxpayers should no longer be responsible for homes valued well above the national average, and are about to turn a top slice of the housing market into a testing ground for whether the private mortgage market can once again go it alone. PAGE B1
A MICROLENDER'S LOST LUSTER
SKS was once seen as a model for how microcredit firms could do very well for themselves by making loans as small as $50 to basket weavers and other poor people. Now the company, which last week reported its first loss as a public company, seems to symbolize the problems of microfinance in India. PAGE B1
RENTING VS. BUYING
The relative merits of renting and buying are closer than they have been since the housing bubble began inflating a decade ago. People should make a decision based mainly on their stage of life, rather than on complex financial calculations. David Leonhardt, Economic Scene. PAGE B1
Obituaries
HORACE FREELAND JUDSON, 80
He was a science writer whose 1979 book, ''The Eighth Day of Creation,'' is regarded as the definitive account of the breakthroughs that transformed molecular biology in the mid-20th century. PAGE A21
Sports
FRENCH SOCCER COACH CLEARED IN RACIAL INQUIRY
Inquiries into allegations of racism at the heart of French soccer have found no evidence that laws were broken or of discrimination by the national coach, investigators said.
Investigators were examining whether the national team coach, Laurent Blanc, and others from the federation had discussed in November introducing racial quotas at training academies for young French players with dual nationality. PAGE B13
WOODS'S GOLF GURU
Sean Foley, Tiger Woods's coach, looks the part of golf guru. He has the bronzed skin, the big belt buckle, the perfectly creased slacks. But in some ways he's an anomaly in his profession. Unlike Woods's previous, old-school tutors, Foley is 36, just a year older than Woods, listens to rap, and is simultaneously earnest, disarming and a little brash. PAGE B11
Arts
COMPARING STAGE NOTES
ON A BROADWAY MAINSTAY
After the death last week of the pugnacious writer Arthur Laurents -- one of the most formidable, storied and intimidating figures in the history of Broadway -- some peers remained careful about what they said, because his would be one ghost who held a grudge. PAGE C1
DISNEY'S NEXT TWEEN QUEEN
China Anne McClain is preparing to make a full-tilt, Disney-backed charge for the title of Next Tween Queen. But the manufacture of child stars is harder than it used to be. PAGE C1
Dining
A TANDOOR OVEN
FOR YOUR BACKYARD
Ron Levy never intended to become a tandoor mogul. But he converted his studio on Mulberry Street in Little Italy into a tandoor factory. Over the last three decades, he has built more than 2,000 for restaurants across North America, including the Bombay Club in Washington and Bukhara Grill and Dawat in Manhattan, and as far away as Mexico, Belize and Fiji. Now Mr. Levy has developed a tandoor for home use, the Homdoor. It starts at $1,200. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Maureen Dowd PAGE A23
Thomas Friedman PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); MAYORS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (76%); LOBBYING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); BIOLOGY (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); MEDICAID (70%); CHILDREN (69%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (69%); REAL ESTATE (68%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (67%); CITIES (67%); HISTORY (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); LITIGATION (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); HOUSING MARKET (64%); LAYOFFS (63%); MICROFINANCE (61%); HOME PRICES (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (54%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



309 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: A Social Networking Device for Smokers

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
Companies have started adding the ability to communicate wirelessly to an increasing range of devices, like tablet computers, cars and refrigerators.
Now they are doing it with cigarettes.
Blu, the maker of electronic cigarettes that release a nicotine-laden vapor instead of smoke, has developed packs of e-cigarettes with sensors that will let users know when other e-smokers are nearby.
Think of it as social smoking for the social networking era. 
''You'll meet more people than ever, just because of the wow factor,'' said Jason Healy, the founder of Blu, who did not appear to be making friends as he exhaled the odorless vapor of an e-cigarette at a coffee shop in Midtown Manhattan recently. ''It's like with any new technology.''
E-cigarettes have several obvious advantages to their traditional counterparts. They allow users to avoid bans on smoking in public places because they release only water vapor. Mr. Healy and other e-cigarette manufacturers also claim that they have practically no negative health effects -- an assertion that draws skepticism in many quarters. But the devices are also, in their own way, gadgets.
The new ''smart packs,'' which will go on sale next month for $80 for five e-cigarettes, are equipped with devices that emit and search for the radio signals of other packs. When they get within 50 feet of one another, the packs vibrate and flash a blue light.
The reusable packs, which serve as a charger for the cigarettes, can be set to exchange information about their owners, like contact information on social networking sites, that can be downloaded onto personal computers.
The packs also conveniently vibrate when a smoker nears a retail outlet that sells Blu cigarettes.
Later versions will be tethered to a smartphone through an app, allowing more options for real-time communication, Mr. Healy said. The company also plans to develop a system through which the packs will monitor how much people are smoking and report back to them -- or to their doctors.
Marketers think people want more devices to link to each other. More than 105 million adult Americans have at least two types of connected devices, and 37 million have five or more, according to Forrester Research.
Nintendo's new hand-held gaming systems, the 3DS, communicate with one another when brought into close proximity. A smartphone app called Color allows users to take photographs that are then automatically shared with anyone nearby who has also downloaded the app. It recently raised $41 million from venture capitalists.
But Charles S. Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research who has studied connected devices, said that ideas like Blu's connected cigarettes or Color show that digital connections can get ahead of the reasons for doing so.
''The way that groups of affinity are conferred just by physical proximity makes a bit of sense,'' he said. ''If someone walks by with a Nintendo, great, I share a common interest. The fact that I walk by a smoker? Seems like a weak link.''
Mr. Healy says he thinks the connected packs would be most useful in nightclubs, where people are interested in striking up conversations and want to smoke without being forced outside.
Adam Alfandary, 24, a Brooklyn resident who works for a technology start-up, was skeptical. He said that the social aspects of smoking were a part of the reason he continued to light up, but he scoffed at the idea of a cigarette that would do the social part for him. ''I think that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard in my life,'' he said.
''And I'm saying that in full acknowledgment that smoking is one of the dumbest things I can do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Packs of Blu e-cigarettes will vibrate and flash a blue light when they are within 50 feet of another pack. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); SMOKING BANS (77%); TOBACCO MFG (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (51%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (51%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (51%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



310 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL RETREAT ON BIGGER LOANS RATTLES HOUSING

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
MONTEREY, Calif. -- By summer's end, buyers and sellers in some of the country's most upscale housing markets are slated to lose one their biggest benefactors: the deep pockets of the federal government. In this seaside community of pricey homes, the dread of yet another housing shock is already spreading.
''We're looking at more price drops, more foreclosures,'' said Rick Del Pozzo, a loan broker. ''This snowball that's been rolling downhill is going to pick up some speed.''
For the last three years, federal agencies have backed new mortgages as large as $729,750 in desirable neighborhoods in high-cost states like California, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts. Without the government covering the risk of default, many lenders would have refused to make the loans. With the economy in free fall, Congress broadened its traditionally generous support of housing to a substantial degree. 
But now Democrats and Republicans agree that the taxpayer should no longer be responsible for homes valued well above the national average, and are about to turn a top slice of the housing market into a testing ground for whether the private mortgage market can once again go it alone. The result, analysts say, will be higher-cost loans and fewer potential buyers for more expensive homes.
Michael S. Barr, a former assistant Treasury secretary, said the federal government's retrenchment would be painful for many communities. ''There's always going to be a line, and for the person just over it it's always going to be an arbitrary line,'' said Mr. Barr, who teaches at the University of Michigan Law School. ''But there is no entitlement to living in a home that costs $750,000.''
As the housing market braces for more trouble, homeowners everywhere have been reduced to hoping things will someday stop getting worse. In some areas, foreclosures are the only thing selling. New home construction is nearly nonexistent. And CoreLogic, a data company, said Tuesday that house prices fell 7.5 percent over the last year.
The federal government last year backed nine out of 10 new mortgages nationwide, and losses from soured loans are still mounting. Fannie Mae, which buys mortgages from lenders and packages them for investors, said last week it needed an additional $6.2 billion in aid, bringing the cost of its rescue to nearly $100 billion.
Getting the government out of the mortgage business, however, is proving much more difficult than doling out new benefits. As regulators prepare to drop the level at which they will guarantee loans -- here in Monterey County, the level will drop by a third to $483,000 -- buyers and sellers are wondering why they should be punished simply for living in an expensive region.
Sellers worry that the pool of potential buyers will shrink. ''I'm glad to see they're trying to rein in Fannie Mae, but I think I'm being disproportionately penalized,'' said Rayn Random, who is trying to sell her house in the hills for $849,000 so she can move to Florida.
Buyers might face less competition in the fall but are likely to see more demands from lenders, including higher credit scores and larger down payments. Steve McNally, a hotel manager from Vancouver, said he had only about 20 percent to put down on a new home in Monterey County.
If a bigger deposit were required, Mr. McNally said, ''I'd wait and rent.''
Even those who bought ahead of the changes, scheduled to take effect Sept. 30, worry about the effect on values. Greg Peterson recently purchased a house in Monterey for $700,000. ''That doesn't get you a palace,'' said Mr. Peterson, a flight attendant.
He qualified for government insurance, which meant he needed only a small down payment. If that option is not available in the future, he said, ''home prices all around me will plummet.''
The National Association of Realtors, 8,000 of whom have gathered in Washington this week for their midyear legislative meeting, is making an extension of the loan guarantees a top lobbying priority.
''Reducing the limits will put more downward pressure on prices,'' said the N.A.R. president, Ron Phipps. ''I just don't think it makes a lot of sense.'' But he said that in contrast to last year, when a one-year extension of the higher limits sailed through Congress, ''there's more resistance.''
Federal regulators acknowledge that mortgages will get more expensive in upscale neighborhoods but say the effect of the smaller guarantees on the overall housing market will be muted.
A Federal Housing Administration spokeswoman declined to comment but pointed to the Obama administration's position paper on reforming the housing market. ''Larger loans for more expensive homes will once again be funded only through the private market,'' it declares.
Brokers and agents here in Monterey said terms were much tougher for nonguaranteed loans since lenders were so wary. Borrowers are required to come up with down payments of 30 percent or more while showing greater assets, higher credit ratings and lower debt-to-income ratios.
In the Federal Reserve's quarterly survey of lenders, released last week, only two of the 53 banks said their credit standards for prime residential mortgages had eased. Another two said they had tightened. The other 49 said their standards were the same -- tough.
The Mortgage Bankers Association has opposed letting the limits drop, although a spokesman said its members were studying the issue.
''I don't want to sugarcoat this,'' said Mr. Barr, the former Treasury official. ''The housing finance system of the future will be one in which borrowers pay more.''
The loan limits were $417,000 everywhere in the country before the economy swooned in 2008. The new limits will be determined by various formulas, including the median price in the county, but will not fall back to their precrisis levels. In many affected counties, the loan limit will fall about 15 percent, to $625,500.
Monterey County, however, will see a much greater drop. The county is really two housing markets: the farming city of Salinas and the more affluent Monterey and Carmel.
Real estate records show that 462 loans were made in Monterey County between the current limit and the new ceiling since the beginning of 2009, according to the research firm DataQuick. That was only about 1 percent of the loans made in the county. But it was a much higher percentage for Monterey and Carmel -- about a quarter of their sales.
Heidi Daunt, with Treehouse Mortgage, said loans too large for a government guarantee currently carried interest rates of at least 6 percent, more than a point higher than government-backed loans.
''That can definitely blow a lot of people out of the water,'' Ms. Daunt said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A home in Carmel Valley, Calif., priced for sale at $789,500. Homeowners in high-price areas worry that prices could tumble.
 A Monterey, Calif., home priced at $820,000. Mortgages in Monterey County will be guaranteed only up to $483,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); LOAN BROKERS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); LAYOFFS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%); CORELOGIC INC (52%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



311 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE SHAUGHRAUN'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Hiss at the Villain, Cheer the Vagabond

BYLINE: By RACHEL SALTZ

 BODY:
The name alone conjures greasepaint and gaslights and the Ghosts of Theater Past. Dion Boucicault, the 19th-century Irish playwright and actor, was popular in Britain and America with melodramas like ''The Colleen Bawn,'' one of the most successful plays of the time; ''The Octoroon''; and ''The Shaughraun,'' now at the Irish Repertory Theater in a lively, loving production. 
''In the galleries the enthusiasm was unreserved; in the stalls and boxes, people smiled a little at the hackneyed sentiments and claptrap situations, and enjoyed the play as much as the galleries did.''
That's Edith Wharton, writing in ''The Age of Innocence'' about ''The Shaughraun,'' and her assessment stands. Eager to entertain, ''The Shaughraun'' (1874) is one of those sturdy theatrical vehicles that's hard to resist.
Set in County Sligo, Ireland, the play has healthy doses of comedy mixed in with the melodrama. There's also action -- fights! a jailbreak! -- plenty of romance, a bit of singing and dancing, a dog, plots and counterplots, and characters pulled from the trunk of dramatic types: a dastardly villain, a strapping hero. (This more-is-more aesthetic persists in contemporary Bollywood, where Boucicault could easily find employ.)
The story revolves around a wrongly accused convict, Robert Ffolliott (Kevin O'Donnell), who has escaped from Australia and sneaked back into Ireland. While searching for Robert, the courtly English officer Molineux (Mark Shanahan, an excellent comic) falls for his sister, Claire (Allison Jean White), who is about to be evicted from Robert's estate, along with Robert's lady love, Arte (Katie Fabel). The agent of everyone's distress is Kinchela (Sean Gormley, just right), who holds the lease to the estate and, of course, has designs on Arte.
The Shaughraun of the title -- ''a fiddlin', poachin' vagabond'' who likes his whiskey and tall tales -- is Conn (Patrick Fitzgerald), Robert's faithful friend and the play's wellspring of anarchic, if self-conscious, Irishness. (Boucicault played the role in the original New York production.)
The director, Charlotte Moore, keeps the farcical elements from becoming too broad and stages the crowded plot with practiced economy. Klara Zieglerova's set, with its brightly painted blues and greens, and a rocky perch or two, locates the play firmly in a kind of fantasy land, where it belongs.
Some elements in ''The Shaughraun'' creak louder than others: oh, those long, expository riffs and that complicated plot! But these come with the territory, and it's territory that the Irish Rep, which has staged Boucicault's ''Colleen Bawn'' and ''The Streets of New York'' and first did ''The Shaughraun'' in 1998, has a clear fondness for. That fondness shines through.
''The Shaughraun'' continues through June 12 at the Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea; (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Shaughraun: Kevin O'Donnell as a wrongly accused convict, left, and Patrick Fitzgerald in the title role of this show at the Irish Rep. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DANCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); IRELAND (88%)

TITLE: Shaughraun, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



312 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 746 words

PERSON: Robert C. Stempel 

HEADLINE: Robert Stempel, an Engineer Who Led G.M., Dies at 77

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Robert C. Stempel, a mechanical engineer who helped develop the catalytic converter and served as chairman and chief executive of General Motors during a troubled two-year period for the automaker, died on Saturday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 77.
His death was confirmed by G. M., which did not specify the cause. He lived in Loxahatchee, Fla. 
Mr. Stempel, who began his career at G.M. in 1958 as a chassis detailer for the Oldsmobile division, succeeded Roger B. Smith as chief executive in August 1990. But after closing plants and cutting tens of thousands of jobs in an effort to restore profitability following Mr. Smith's much-publicized failings, Mr. Stempel was ousted in October 1992 in a boardroom coup.
He later became chairman of Energy Conversion Devices, a suburban Detroit company that builds solar panels and created the battery technology used in hybrid cars.
As chief executive of General Motors, Mr. Stempel approved the EV1 electric car, which became the subject of the documentary ''Who Killed the Electric Car?'' after G.M. later canceled the project. The EV1 would have been the first modern-day mass-produced electric vehicle.
Stanford Ovshinksy, the inventor who founded Energy Conversion Devices, described Mr. Stempel as one of the auto industry's earliest advocates for electric cars. He said Mr. Stempel was pleased to see automakers beginning to introduce electric vehicles, including the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid.
Mr. Stempel, a car enthusiast who enjoyed going to auto races, told Business Week in 1988 that he drove to work in a Pontiac Bonneville SSE because ''it's black, it's good-looking and it's fast.''
Robert Carl Stempel was born July 15, 1933, in Trenton. As a teenager, he earned money to pay for college by working as a garage mechanic in Bloomfield, N.J., and often fixed cars for fellow students while earning his degree.
He was hired by G.M. three years after earning a mechanical engineering degree from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts, where he was a 6-foot-4 tackle on the football team.
Mr. Stempel was instrumental in G.M.'s development of the first front-wheel-drive car in the modern American automobile industry, the 1966 Oldsmobile Toronado. He designed the Toronado's front suspension and its engine and transmission mounting system, according to a G.M. biography.
He attended night classes at Michigan State University to receive a master's degree in business administration in 1970 and became Oldsmobile's assistant chief engineer in 1972. A year later, according to his G.M. biography, the company's president, Ed Cole, selected Mr. Stempel as a special assistant and charged him with overseeing development of emission control devices. From that assignment came the catalytic converter, which vehicles now use to reduce exhaust emissions.
Mr. Stempel later worked as director of engineering for the Chevrolet brand, general manager of the Pontiac division (which was shut down last year) and managing director of G.M.'s European division, Adam Opel A.G.
In 1975, Mr. Stempel's 13-year-old son, Timothy, was kidnapped while skateboarding near the family's home in Bloomfield Township, Mich., an affluent suburb. The abductors, who later said they had chosen their target at random, kept the boy for more than two days in the trunk of their car until releasing him, unharmed, after Mr. Stempel paid a $150,000 ransom.
Two men were later convicted of the crime, and the police recovered $137,000 of the ransom money.
Mr. Stempel returned to Detroit from Germany in 1982 as general manager of Chevrolet and was named an executive vice president of G.M. and a member of its board in 1986. A year later he was promoted to president and chief operating officer.
Only the second engineer to become G.M.'s top executive, he lasted 26 months before board members became impatient with the pace of the company's reorganization amid billions of dollars in losses and forced him to retire.
The day after Mr. Stempel took over the company, Iraq invaded Kuwait, helping to push the United States into a recession that slashed vehicle sales, prompting him to joke about having ''one good day as chairman,'' according to a 1992 profile by Reuters.
He was chairman of Energy Conversion for nearly 12 years until retiring in 2007. Most recently he was working on a new project that aims to produce solar panels at half the cost of those available today.
Mr. Stempel is survived by his wife and three adult children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Stempel was the chief executive of General Motors for two years in the early 1990s, a difficult time for the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); CLOSINGS (55%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



313 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Florida Legislature Votes to Ease Rules on Development

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Just before the Republican-led Florida Legislature finished up its session for the year, it gave developers a parting gift: It pushed through measures that would reverse 25 years of growth management law by loosening state oversight of builders and making it harder for people to challenge development.
Republican leaders hailed the measures as a step toward modernizing Florida's growth management rules and reducing duplicative bureaucratic regulations. The bills were a priority for the Republican governor, Rick Scott, and Republican legislative leaders who said they would create jobs and stimulate the economy. 
Mr. Scott is expected in the next two weeks to sign the package of bills, one of several business-friendly proposals that cleared the Legislature. Lawmakers also provided $30 million in tax breaks to 15,000 businesses, limited lawsuits against businesses, paved the way for prison privatization and reduced unemployment compensation.
But environmentalists and Senate Democrats called the legislation approved last week a throwback to the 1970s and early '80s, when tracts of land in Florida were gobbled up by developers who put up strip shopping malls, houses and office buildings with no concern for local communities. Developers also encroached on sensitive land, including Everglades National Park.
''It was the worst session for the environment I have seen in 20 years,'' said Eric Draper, executive director of Audubon of Florida. ''We saw more bad bills proposed and more bad bills passed than we have ever seen before. Any claim that a bill would increase jobs by decreasing regulation was accepted on its face with no consideration given to the financial consequences or the environmental consequences of the proposal.''
The Legislature significantly reduced money for the Everglades, mostly by cutting the budget of the South Florida Water Management District, which oversees restoration. The Everglades stands to lose $120 million from a decrease in the district's budget if the bill becomes law, Mr. Draper said. Asserting that such a cut would cause profound harm to restoration efforts, Audubon of Florida has asked Mr. Scott to veto the legislation.
In its last days, the Legislature also approved a proposal that would make it more difficult for the public to challenge development and environmental permits. Developers would no longer have to prove a project is safe. Instead, the public would have to prove that a project would bring harm, a shift that environmentalists say would make it much more arduous to stop sensitive projects like hazardous waste sites and nuclear power plants.
State Senator Michael S. Bennett, a Republican from Bradenton who is a developer and the bill's sponsor, said current law had slowed the permit process considerably, backing it up two or three years and impeding business growth. Businesses, Mr. Bennett said, were choosing other states because of that.
''Any person from the Keys can challenge somebody from the Panhandle and not have any burden of proof,'' Mr. Bennett said on the floor last week.
The growth management bill, which was wrapped into the must-pass budget bill at the tail end of the session early Saturday morning, would undo a central piece of a landmark 1985 law that required builders to help pay for schools, roads, parks, sewers and other infrastructure costs. At the time, Florida residents were angered by having to pay the long-term cost of widespread new development while builders pocketed the profits.
The law would leave the decision about whether developers should pay impact fees to local governments. It also would allow cities and counties to make changes to their growth plans without state permission.
Republican lawmakers said the current requirements are outdated and that communities are much better equipped to oversee development than they were 25 years ago. Local communities, not the state, they said, know best what they need to maintain their neighborhoods.
Environmental groups and Democratic critics said Florida's corruption-spackled past had proved that local officials did not always make the right choices.
''The reasons we have a growth management law is to allow the state to check against out of control local officials,'' Mr. Draper said. ''Florida has a history of corruption and bribery among local officials. We have now gone back 30 years and said we will trust our county commissioners to make these decisions. It is predictable that bad things will happen.''
And, Democrats added, Florida needs to increase development about as much as it needs to increase the mosquito population. It was overdevelopment that helped lead to the housing crash, which has now left many commercial buildings and houses sitting empty, they say.
''One reason we have a problem is we have a glut in the market,'' said State Senator Nan H. Rich, the Senate Democratic leader, who lives in Broward County. ''We don't need more development and urban sprawl.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Florida House members celebrated the end of their legislative session early Saturday after passage of a budget bill. Included in the bill were provisions to loosen growth-management laws. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE CANNON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); BURDENS OF PROOF (70%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (53%); PRISONS (53%); RETAILERS (52%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



314 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: When the Levee Doesn't Break

BYLINE: By DAVID WELKY. 
David Welky, an associate professor of history at the University of Central Arkansas, is the author of the forthcoming book ''The Thousand-Year Flood: The Ohio-Mississippi Disaster of 1937.''

 BODY:
Conway, Ark.
VIOLENT thunderstorms have sent the greatest floods since 1937 cascading down the Ohio and lower Mississippi River Valleys. Residents from Illinois to Arkansas have fled their homes as thousands of square miles of farmland have gone underwater.
But even if the river levels are nearly as high as anything seen in the 20th century, the extent of the damage probably won't come close to the losses of life and property seen in the historic flood of January 1937. Indeed, while individual stories of calamity abound, taken as a whole the event is a watershed in American history -- proof that after nearly 75 years, the federal government has finally gained the upper hand on a river system once thought uncontrollable.
In the Great Flood of 1937 torrential rains pushed rivers up to 15 feet above flood stage and forced a million people from their homes. Entire towns disappeared. Flooding caused around $1 billion in damages. Several hundred people died, mostly from pneumonia or influenza. 
Even though there had been calamitous flooding along the lower Mississippi a decade earlier, only a handful of states and cities along the rivers had flood-control systems, while the federal government, adhering to a narrow interpretation of its constitutional powers, had built few flood-control levees or walls, and then mostly along the lower Mississippi.
The government didn't sit still once the floods hit, though. Hundreds of thousands of volunteers, soldiers and employees of New Deal job-relief programs were deployed along the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, building emergency levees and aiding displaced residents. On orders from President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Army was prepared to evacuate people from the entire Mississippi River Valley in the event of a catastrophic levee break.
Then, after the waters receded, the federal government assumed greater control over the nation's waterways, a move Roosevelt had been advocating for years. Not only would Washington oversee flood control, but it would pay for it, too: over the following decades, the Army Corps of Engineers spent billions of dollars on a vast system of reservoirs, local floodwalls and pumping stations. (Roosevelt initially opposed paying for everything for fear the Corps would neglect issues like conservation and pollution, but once he saw how popular the effort was, he embraced it as his own.)
As this year's flooding shows, the expense was worth it. In 1937 officials had to move tens of thousands of people from Louisville and Paducah, Ky., to refugee camps; today, despite the rise in the Ohio River, life along its banks goes on normally for almost everyone. Federal outlays after 1937 enabled Memphis to upgrade its floodwalls and pumps; as a result, for many Memphians the floodwaters are now nothing more than a curiosity.
At the same time, increased money for the Weather Bureau -- today known as the National Weather Service -- helped improve its flood-forecasting abilities, making evacuations more precise. Low confidence in meteorologists' predictions had sent thousands running in 1937 even though water never reached their doorsteps, while many others waited until it was too late to get out.
True, the system isn't perfect. The Army Corps of Engineers has relied too much on levees instead of retention reservoirs and less environmentally destructive means of flood reduction like reforestation or erosion control.
And, as the owners of farmland inundated by planned levee breaches can tell you, not everyone benefits from the government's flood-management efforts.
Nor should we let the success of this year's flooding response prevent us from making further improvements. In the wake of the 1937 disaster, some scientists and engineers suggested abandoning lowlands to the rivers, but lawmakers and most residents denounced the idea as defeatist and unpatriotic. It's an idea we should reconsider, at least in particularly flood-prone places.
Indeed, California and other states have already begun experimenting with so-called natural river defenses, in which lands best suited for swamps, marshes and forests have been left undeveloped and open to periodic flooding as a way of lessening the pressure on levees and pumping stations. This was a lesson some communities heeded after 1937; Louisville and other towns, for example, bought out flood victims and turned riverside areas into parks, while utilities moved power plants beyond the water's reach.
But in too many places, the pressure to develop lands along the river for residential or commercial use has led planners to forget what they learned, raising the risk of terrible losses should a levee break. Smarter engineering, not just higher levees, is needed to make sure the rivers stay under control.
Nevertheless, it's the spirit of 1937 that we must embrace: The great flood of 2011 would be truly cataclysmic had the Roosevelt administration not invested in public works and embraced the proposition that careful, centralized planning can produce enormous social and economic rewards.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BENOIT GUILLAUME) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (91%); RIVERS (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); DAMAGES (76%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (75%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); HISTORY (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (66%); VOLUNTEERS (64%); PNEUMONIA (53%); INFLUENZA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (91%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



315 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Bringing the Mall of America Magic to New Jersey

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
When the Ghermezian brothers, immigrants from Iran who had settled in western Canada, wanted to build the largest shopping center in the United States a quarter-century ago, they shipped a submarine that had been custom-built for them in Vancouver -- and was an offbeat attraction at their mall in Edmonton -- to Bloomington, Minn., and parked it in front of City Hall. Their company, Triple Five, won the development rights for what would become the Mall of America.
But the Ghermezians, who last week unveiled their vision for reviving and expanding the long-stalled Xanadu retail-and-entertainment complex in East Rutherford, N.J., no longer have to resort to stunts to promote themselves. 
Since they assumed sole ownership of the Mall of America in 2006, after wresting control from their partner, Simon Property Group, the nation's largest shopping center operator, they have improved the performance of the 4.2-million-square-foot mall, drawing tens of millions of shoppers and tourists even in the worst economic climate in decades. They reported sales last year of $640 per square foot, well above the industry average of $385. ''They've done a pretty amazing job at Mall of America,'' said Dick Grones, a partner in Cambridge Commercial Realty, a brokerage in Edina, Minn. ''It's better than when Simon had it.''
Triple Five's flagship, the even larger West Edmonton Mall in Alberta, is also thriving, with a vacancy rate of only 1 percent, said Don Ghermezian, who is president of both malls and will have a similar role at Xanadu, which is being rebranded as American Dream@Meadowlands.
Sales per square foot at West Edmonton, which occupies 5.3 million square feet, were 625 Canadian dollars ($648) last year, compared with an average in that country of 565 Canadian dollars, said Mr. Ghermezian, who is 37. He is a member of the younger generation of Ghermezian men who are assuming more control now that the eldest of the founding brothers, Don's father, Eskander, is 71.
The West Edmonton Mall opened in phases beginning in 1981 and has about 550 stores. It is undergoing a multimillion-dollar renovation. Among its attractions are a five-acre water park, an ice-skating rink, an artificial saltwater lake with sea lions, an 18-hole miniature golf course, a 447,000-square foot amusement park and a casino. A Simons department store, the first outside Quebec, is expected to open in September. The brothers have said they were inspired to combine shopping and entertainment on a large scale by Iranian bazaars.
Both malls are ''wildly successful,'' said Jim Sullivan, a senior retail real estate analyst for Green Street Advisors of Newport Beach, Calif. ''They draw a lot of people, and retailers want to be where the people are.''
New Jersey officials are pinning a lot of hopes that a similar formula will work at American Dream, the long-dormant 2.4-million-square-foot complex with a 600-foot indoor ski slope and a much-derided exterior design that is on state-owned land in the Meadowlands Sports Complex. The Ghermezians plan to invest $1 billion to expand the mall -- which has already cost $1.9 billion -- by adding features like a water park and ice rink.
But Triple Five does not have an unblemished track record. Like many developers, it became overextended in Las Vegas and stumbled badly. Lenders have foreclosed on five loans, and four other loans are in distress, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm. In 2009, for example, Triple Five had to abandon plans for an $800 million Great Mall of Las Vegas on 60 acres of land that it had acquired for $42.5 million in 2004. Triple Five surrendered the site, which is in North Las Vegas, to its lender, Key Bank, which sold it last December for $6.3 million.
In addition, Triple Five's plans to add 5.6 million square feet to the Mall of America -- announced in 2006 -- have had to be postponed and scaled back. Last August, Bank Midwest of Kansas City, Mo., foreclosed on a Ramada Inn that Triple Five had bought for $19.5 million, apparently for strategic reasons because it was between Interstate 494 and the land where the mall expansion is planned.
But some plans are moving forward. Last week, developers of a 500-room Radisson Blu that will be the first luxury hotel at the Mall of America completed their financing and announced a ground-breaking for late this month.
Triple Five is named for three generations of Ghermezians and the five founders, four brothers -- Eskander, Nader, Raphael and Bahman -- and their father, Jacob, who died in 2000. Raised in Tehran, the brothers came to North America to study at McGill University in Montreal. As students, the three older brothers became successful rug merchants. After their father left Iran in the late 1960s to join his sons, the family moved to Alberta because of the booming oil and gas business and began accumulating vast amounts of land, most of which was eventually sold. Today, the company's business interests include mining and biotechnology.
In 2003, a federal judge in Minneapolis stunned the retailing industry by ruling in Triple Five's favor in a lawsuit the company filed against the shopping industry leaders Melvin and Herbert Simon. Triple Five had brought in the Simons when it could not secure construction financing for the Mall of America. The court ruled that the Simons had breached their fiduciary duty to the Ghermezians by secretly negotiating with another partner, the financial services company TIAA-CREF, to gain a majority interest in the mall. The Simons were ordered to sell their stake to Triple Five, giving the Canadian company control of the mall.
Under the Ghermezians, the Mall of America has added 100 tenants, including American Girl, Don Ghermezian said. Crystal chandeliers and marble floors were recently installed on the mall's south side to attract upscale retailers like Michael Kors, Armani Exchange and Stuart Weitzman.
The Ghermezians are considered formidable negotiators, as they demonstrated last month when they persuaded Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey to provide $200 million in subsidies to the American Dream project in part to expand the mall to three million square feet, from 2.2 million.
In Minneapolis, Triple Five has managed to secure $40.8 million in economic stimulus bond financing for the $137.5 million Radisson Blu, the luxury hotel that is being developed at the mall by Carlson Hotels and Mortenson Development, both of the Minneapolis area. The Ghermezians will retain title to the land under the hotel, adding to the developers' risk since they will still be liable for lease payments if the project fails.
Real estate specialists said it was a coup for the Ghermezians to get the developers to agree to a ground lease. ''It does happen, but not often -- and usually only in major urban centers in the heart of the central business district on the prime corner,'' said John J. Johannson, a senior vice president at the Welsh Companies, a local brokerage.
Amid these successes, Las Vegas has been a dark spot and a place that has caused the family embarrassment for years. A local country commissioner recently served a prison term after testifying that Eskander Ghermezian paid her $3,000 a month over three years for supporting a casino proposal in 2000. Mr. Ghermezian was not charged.
Don Ghermezian said the family had learned from its troubles in Las Vegas. ''We've become a lot more conservative in our approach, in terms of the projects we'll go after,'' he said. ''We have to be 100 percent confident we'll be able to make it successful. With American Dream, we think we've found that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Chris Christie, above right, with Nader Ghermezian, center, and a rendering of the American Dream project. Left, the roller coaster at Mall of America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CAROLINE YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); SALES PER SQUARE FOOT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); WATER PARKS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MARINE MAMMALS (72%); BRANDING (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); GOLF (63%); LAKES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (52%); ICE SKATING (50%); WINTER SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (56%); GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (50%)

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



316 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Google Lobbies Nevada To Allow Driverless Cars

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Google, a pioneer of self-driving cars, is quietly lobbying for legislation that would make Nevada the first state where they could be legally operated on public roads.
And yes, the proposed legislation would include an exemption from the ban on distracted driving to allow occupants to send text messages while sitting behind the wheel.
The two bills, which have received little attention outside Nevada's Capitol, are being introduced less than a year after the giant search engine company acknowledged that it was developing cars that could be safely driven without human intervention. 
Last year, in response to a reporter's query about its then-secret research and development program, Google said it had test-driven robotic hybrid vehicles more than 140,000 miles on California roads -- including Highway 1 between Los Angeles and San Francisco.
More than 1,000 miles had been driven entirely autonomously at that point; one of the company's engineers was testing some of the car's autonomous features on his 50-mile commute from Berkeley to Google's headquarters in Mountain View.
At the time, Google gave little indication what its commercial intent might be. The company confirmed on Tuesday that it has lobbied on behalf of the legislation, though executives declined to say why they want the robotic cars' maiden state to be Nevada. Jay Nancarrow, a company spokesman, said the project was still very much in the testing phase.
Google hired David Goldwater, a lobbyist based in Las Vegas, to promote the two measures, which are expected to come to a vote before the Legislature's session ends in June. One is an amendment to an electric-vehicle bill providing for the licensing and testing of autonomous vehicles, and the other is the exemption that would permit texting.
In testimony before the State Assembly on April 7, Mr. Goldwater argued that the autonomous technology would be safer than human drivers, offer more fuel-efficient cars and promote economic development.
Although safety systems based on artificial intelligence are rapidly making their way into today's cars, completely autonomous systems raise thorny questions about safety and liability.
Policy makers and regulators have warned that the technology is now advancing so quickly that it is in danger of outstripping existing law, some of which dates back to the era of horse-drawn carriages. New laws will be required, they argue, if autonomous vehicles are to become a reality.
Policy analysts say Nevada is the first state to consider the commercial deployment of a generation of vehicles that may park themselves, perform automatic deliveries or even act as automated taxis on the Las Vegas casino strip.
''In some respects this is a great template and a great model,'' said Ryan Calo, a legal scholar at the Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School. ''It recognizes a need to create a process to test these vehicles and set aside an area of Nevada where testing can take place.''
Google's fleet of six autonomous Toyota Priuses and an Audi TT are easily identifiable by a distinctive laser range finder mounted on the roof. The cars also have a variety of radar and camera sensors and a trunkful of computer equipment.
In the testing program, each vehicle is overseen by a driver and a second Google employee who monitors the equipment from the passenger seat. Because of the human oversight, the company has avoided legal action against reckless -- or, in this case, driverless -- driving.
The project is being guided by the artificial-intelligence researcher Sebastian Thrun, who as a Stanford professor in 2005 led a team of students and engineers that designed the first winning entry in an autonomous vehicle contest organized by the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
Since then, Dr. Thrun has focused more of his activities at Google, giving up tenure at Stanford and hiring a growing array of experts to help with the development project.
In frequent public statements, he has said robotic vehicles would increase energy efficiency while reducing road injuries and deaths. And he has called for sophisticated systems for car sharing that, he says, could cut the number of cars in the United States in half.
''What if I could take out my phone and say, 'Zipcar, come here,' '' he asked an industry conference last year, ''and a moment later the Zipcar came around the corner?''
Google's autonomous vehicle ambitions hint at an emerging vehicle-industrial complex in Silicon Valley. Mercedes, Volkswagen and other carmakers have laboratories in the region, I.B.M. has a battery development initiative, and the Nummi plant in Fremont, once a joint venture of General Motors and Toyota, has been reopened by Tesla.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Google has been quietly testing autonomous cars in California. The cars, hybrids, have a laser range finder on the roof, as well as radar and camera sensors and more equipment in the trunk. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ROBOTICS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (78%); CASINOS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



317 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Belmont Casino Plan Could Aid Islanders

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Nassau County executive, Edward P. Mangano, will announce on Wednesday plans to pursue construction of an Indian casino at Belmont Park as part of a larger deal that may lead to a new arena for the Islanders. 
The announcement is the latest attempt to find a host for a casino run by the Shinnecock tribe while also helping Charles Wang, the owner of the Islanders, finance a new home for his team. But it is unclear whether this proposal has any more chance of success than the many similar plans that have come before it.
There had been talk of building a Las Vegas-style Indian casino near Uniondale, N.Y., to create an entertainment hub that would include refurbishing dowdy Nassau Coliseum, where the Islanders play, or building a new arena. Local residents, however, oppose any gambling there.
So on Wednesday, Mangano will announce his support for putting an Indian casino at the Belmont track, which is owned by the New York Racing Association, a state group, and which has seen its attendance for horse racing plummet in recent years. In a news release, Mangano said he would unveil a ''major economic development and job creation plan'' that would include the pursuit of an Indian gaming casino.
As part of the proposed plan, the state would provide Wang with tax-free bonds to help pay for a new arena for the Islanders and a minor league baseball park, both next to where Nassau Coliseum stands now in Uniondale, according to two people briefed on the matter.
The Mets and the Yankees received similar support from New York City agencies to help them finance their new stadiums. Wang, whose lease at the Coliseum runs through 2015, has often expressed frustration with local lawmakers who have opposed his far larger plan, known as the Lighthouse Project, which would have included thousands of homes, shops and offices, and a renovated Coliseum.
Major hurdles remain, however, before any casino is built at Belmont. The tribe must go through a long approval process at the Interior Department in Washington, which has in recent years been hostile to off-reservation casinos. In addition, Genting New York won a state contract to rebuild Aqueduct racetrack and install 4,500 electronic slot machines. It is unlikely that the state would allow at Belmont, a few miles away, a full-scale casino that would almost surely put Aqueduct out of business. Furthermore, some lawmakers are skeptical of using public money to help Wang build a new arena.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); GAMING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); HORSE RACING (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); BASEBALL (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); BONDS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



318 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: In Queens Neighborhood, Legacy of Schools Bursting at the Seams

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The 10 portable classrooms outside Public School 19 in Corona, Queens, were supposed to be temporary.
Sixteen years later, they are still there, holding nearly double the elementary schoolchildren they were meant to and struggling with age. The heating system malfunctions in the winter, forcing students to sit through lessons wearing coats, scarves and hats.
In the main building at P.S. 19, there are monitors to keep order in the lines that form outside the bathrooms, and students' trips are timed. The wait can be too long for some of the younger students. 
Lourdes Castillo said her 6-year-old son came home at least once every week with his pants wet. Bertha Trix said her 5-year-old daughter told her she had to choose between eating or using the bathroom during lunchtime because there was no time for both.
''On most days,'' Ms. Trix said, ''she comes home hungry.''
Parents in well-to-do neighborhoods of Manhattan and in Park Slope, Brooklyn, have become accustomed to kindergarten waiting lists and congested classrooms, problems that may become worse if the city carries out its proposal to lay off 4,100 teachers. But nowhere in the city has crowding been as acute and as intractable as in Corona.
As immigrant families have flooded into Corona in recent years, their children have poured into the neighborhood's schools. Crowding has been an issue for at least two decades, but it has become especially severe since 2005; in District 24, which encompasses Corona and six other neighborhoods in western Queens, student enrollment has gone up 12 percent in that time, while citywide, it has remained flat.
Since 2003, the city's Education Department has added 8,224 school seats in the district, but it still has the largest class sizes in the city in grades 1 through 3. More than a third of first graders attend a class with at least 28 students, compared with 13 percent of first graders citywide. The department plans an additional 4,491 seats by 2014, and a new 1,100-student school is scheduled to open four blocks from P.S. 19 in 2015.
It has been a struggle to keep up with growth. In 2008, the city opened a new school, the Pioneer Academy, across the street from P.S. 19. But Pioneer, which was meant to have 5 kindergarten classes a year, had 7 in its first year and 10 the next.
It is adding a grade each year, but already it has so many students that the principal, Cecilia Jackson, said she was not sure there would be room for the fifth grade in 2013. Its kindergarten waiting list, with 111 zoned students, is second only to that of Public School 169 in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.
There are already fifth graders using Pioneer Academy's building: in an emergency declaration last fall, the Education Department moved the fifth grade of another packed Corona school, Public School 16, into Pioneer. Last month, the city's Panel for Educational Policy voted to move the fifth grade of P.S. 16 to yet another school in the fall, one and a half miles away, because Pioneer needed the space to continue expanding.
''What's happening here is a simple game of musical chairs,'' said State Senator Jose R. Peralta, who represents the area.
The school crowding problem in Corona and elsewhere can be traced, in part, to the 1970s, when the Board of Education sold, gave away or demolished nearly 100 schools as enrollment dropped and a severe crisis crippled the city's finances. In the early 1990s, just as the population was taking off again, renewed economic troubles forced the city to cut the school construction budget in half, and since it takes many years to find property, buy it and then design and build a school, the repercussions of those cuts are still being felt.
P.S. 19, which occupies an entire block on Roosevelt Avenue, between 98th and 99th Streets, was already one of the city's most congested elementary schools in 1995 when the portable classrooms were installed.
To its principal, Genie Calibar, managing the school's 2,005 students, from kindergarten through fifth grade, requires logistical contortion. She uses all of the main building's five doors in the morning to make sure no one is late for class, holds staggered dismissals in the afternoon to avert chaos and breaks up school assembly into multiple sessions, the only way everyone can fit in the auditorium, she said.
The cafeteria serves many purposes: as a music room, a study hall for students who need extra help in math and a classroom for immigrant mothers who learn English through a program housed at the school.
A broom closet was retrofitted to serve as the parent coordinator's office. Special-education students have physical therapy in a third-floor hallway, between a classroom and a tall file cabinet.
But bathrooms are one thing that cannot be improvised. The occasional embarrassment does occur, but students have learned to cope. Maria Ramirez said her 5-year-old son, who is in kindergarten, drinks only a little bit of the juice she packs for him every day so he will not feel like going to the bathroom at school.
''The first thing he does when he comes home is run to the bathroom,'' Ms. Ramirez said.
Alejandra Ruiz and Placida Rodriguez, organizers at Make the Road New York, an advocacy group with a focus on recent immigrants, have been handing out fliers outside crowded schools in Corona to try to cajole parents into asking for more room for their children.
The hard part, Ms. Ruiz said, is persuading the many illegal immigrants among them to speak up. ''They're afraid of drawing attention to themselves,'' she said.
Maria Quiroz, president of the Parents' Association at P.S. 19, delivered a petition to the city two years ago asking it to remove the portable classrooms and to build a brick-and-mortar extension to the main building.
In March, the local City Council representative, Julissa Ferreras, held a meeting with Education Department officials to make the same demand.
''They said they didn't want to have a megaschool for little kids,'' Ms. Ferreras said. ''Guess what? P.S. 19 already is a megaschool. What the kids there need is more space.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A student arriving at a portable classroom at Public School 19 in Corona, Queens
 the portable rooms hold about double the pupils they were meant to. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); MODULAR SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (73%); FAMILY (72%); ZONING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



319 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Rent or Buy, A Matter Of Lifestyle

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Real estate agents across the country are aggressively making the case that now is a good time to buy a house. Mortgage rates are near record lows and will probably rise in coming years. Home prices may not be done falling, but they probably don't have much further to go in most places either. Rents, on the other hand, seem set to increase, thanks to low vacancy rates.
''Renters beware,'' warned a newsletter that I recently received from a real estate agents' group. 
Individually, each of these points is unobjectionable. But it's important to remember the source. Real estate agents, like mortgage brokers and home builders, have a big financial stake in persuading people to buy homes. That's why many agents are always pushing home buying, whatever the rationale of the moment happens to be.
The truth is that you can make just as strong a case in many places for renting. For starters, neither mortgage rates nor rents are likely to rise rapidly. Even more important, house prices, relative to rents, remain higher than their long-term average, especially in much of California, the Pacific Northwest and the New York region. In these places, among others, renting is often cheaper than buying -- still.
I've made a near-annual habit in this column of looking at the rent-versus-buy decision, and The Times has built an online calculator so that readers can make their own comparisons. The idea isn't only to help potential buyers but also to figure out whether and where house prices are overvalued. That question is of obvious importance to homeowners and to the American economy.
As this year's spring buying season nears its peak, the relative merits of renting and buying are closer than they have been since the housing bubble began inflating almost a decade ago. So the best single piece of advice for most people is to make a decision based mainly on their stage of life, rather than on any complex financial calculations.
If you think you are ready to settle in one place for at least five years, if not more, buying often makes a lot of sense. That's why I bought my first house, in the Washington area, a few years ago, despite thinking local prices remained high.
But if the chances are good that you will move again in the next few years, renting is usually the better bet. The various closing costs, including real estate agents' fees, are just too high. Owning a house also makes it much harder to move when you want to because selling a house is complicated.
Within this basic framework, the numbers -- specifically, something called rent ratios -- are the next place to turn. A rent ratio is the sale price of a house divided by the annual cost of renting an equivalent house. When the ratio is below 15, most people should lean toward buying.
To see why, look at the Atlanta area, where the average ratio is now about 13. Combined with today's low interest rates, that ratio means that the typical monthly mortgage payment is several hundred dollars lower than the rent on an equivalent house. Over time, this difference helps make up for the other costs of owning, like closing costs and borrowing costs. And, yes, a mortgage costs money, despite the tax deduction.
Only if home prices in Atlanta fall further and don't recover for years would most buyers today have reason for regret. The other areas where the average ratio is below 15, according to Moody's Analytics, include Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Las Vegas, Cleveland, Detroit, Phoenix, Pittsburgh and Tampa, Fla.
On the other end of the spectrum are metropolitan areas where prices still look bubbly. In San Diego, the ratio was 22 at the end of last year (and most ratios have fallen only slightly since then). In northern and central New Jersey, it was 25, and it was 29 in Manhattan. In Silicon Valley and the nearby East Bay in California, the ratio was above 30.
All these numbers are well down from their peaks from about five years ago. But they're still higher than they were in the decades before the housing bubble. They are also high enough to make the monthly costs of owning steeper than the costs of renting.
As a rule of thumb, a ratio above roughly 20 means that a monthly mortgage bill is higher than rent for a similar house. In Silicon Valley, the after-tax mortgage payment on a typical house might be $3,500 -- while the rent on the same house would be only about $2,500.
The arithmetic of owning then gets mighty tough. On top of closing costs and mortgage costs, owners are also falling further behind renters each month. To make up that ground, house prices would have to rise significantly over the next few years. Does that sound like a good bet?
When you look at the numbers this way, it's easy to conclude that the excesses of the housing bubble are mostly gone in much of the country. Yet you also start wondering whether New York, San Francisco, Seattle and a few other places still have a housing crash in their future.
I realize there are some important caveats here. Affluent people tend to want to own their houses, even when the dollars don't make sense, and the Northeast and West Coast are home to much more wealth than a few decades ago. That could cause future rent ratios to be higher than those in the 1990s or even the 1980s, a better decade for real estate. Meanwhile, the coming rise in rents -- maybe 4 or 5 percent a year, for the next few years -- will reduce rent ratios even if prices don't fall.
Yet the fact remains that a lot of New Yorkers and Californians, among others, are paying a hefty premium for the privilege of owning. Eventually, some of them may decide it's not worth it, much as homebuyers in Las Vegas, Phoenix and Florida ultimately decided that prices were too high. If that happens, prices in New York and California will fall, too.
A crash strikes me as unlikely. But any potential homebuyers should know that real estate exuberance -- irrational exuberance, it seems -- has survived in at least a few places.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Buy or Rent: The rent ratio shows average home price divided by annual rent. Higher numbers mean that home values are high, relative to the cost of renting. (Source: Moody's Analytics, using data from the National Association of Realtors and Property and Portfolio Research) (B1)
 Where It Still Makes Sense to Rent: The recent decline in home prices has made buying a home far more affordable than it was. Yet relative to rents, prices in some metropolitan areas, including San Francisco, Seattle and parts of the New York area, remain very high. As a rule of thumb, buying often makes more sense than renting when the rent ratio is below 15. (Source: Moody's Analytics, using data from the National Association of Realtors and Property and Portfolio Research) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



320 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Google's Digital Music Service Falls Short of Ambition

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO; Claire Cain Miller contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Google had big plans for its new digital music service. It wanted an online store to compete with iTunes and Amazon, as well as a ''smart locker'' storage system in which the company would stream music to its millions of users from a gigantic central jukebox.
But the service that the company unveiled on Tuesday, called Music Beta by Google, fell short of those ambitions. There is no store, the streaming function comes with restrictions, and, like Amazon's Cloud Drive service announced in March, using it requires a long upload process. 
What came between Google and its ambitions was an obstacle familiar to many digital music start-ups: despite months of negotiations, the company could not obtain licenses from the major record companies.
In interviews, Google executives put the blame squarely on the labels. ''Generally there were demands on the business side that we think were unreasonable and don't enable us to have a sustainable, scalable music business,'' said Zahavah Levine, director of content partnerships for Google's Android unit and the lead negotiator with the labels.
Music Beta was introduced on Tuesday at Google I/O, a developers' conference in San Francisco.
Neither Google nor the labels would specify which points they stumbled over. But their disagreement follows a long pattern of friction in which the labels demand high prices for licenses or withhold the licenses altogether. The stubbornness of the labels has earned them a particular caricature in Silicon Valley: the bridge troll, demanding payment for passage.
''They tend to not look at these things as opportunities, but as someone taking advantage of their business,'' said Fred Goldring, a former top music lawyer who invests in media and technology companies. ''Until they figure out how they're going to deal new technology on their terms, they don't make a move. And when they finally do, it's usually too late.''
The labels believe they are protecting their content and maximizing income for themselves and their artists. But as technology companies and industry analysts see it, the labels' conservatism in striking deals that involve their licenses hinders technological development and ultimately harms the marketplace by reducing consumer choice.
''The history of the digital music marketplace is littered with the ramifications of record label conservatism,'' said Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Forrester Research.
Music Beta, which Google is offering by invitation only while in its trial state, will allow users to store 20,000 songs at no charge and stream them to Android phones, tablets and other devices. As with Amazon's Cloud Drive, the company does not need special licenses as long as it stores each user's files separately and then streams them back only to that user, intellectual property lawyers say.
But to sell music, or to operate a master jukebox of every available song and then matching users' collections to it -- widely viewed as the most efficient form of cloud music -- Google would need licenses from the labels. Google's plans were described by many record label executives who have been in discussions with them but spoke on condition of anonymity because their talks were private.
Google and Amazon have not been the only companies negotiating with the labels for cloud music services. Apple is preparing its own, and Spotify, a popular European subscription service, has been locked in talks for two years over American distribution rights. In most of these cases the disagreements are over lump upfront payments or concerns that a service that charges users too little could cannibalize other sales and devalue music overall, executives say.
Ted Cohen, a consultant and former major-label executive, said that when both sides of such negotiations have bad faith, customers suffer. ''Neither side is playing fair with the other,'' he said. ''They go into the negotiations believing that the other side of dishonorable. It's rare that both sides see that the common goal is to create a consumer experience that people value and are willing to pay for. Things don't come to market because of this.''
But whether Google and Amazon have abandoned their bigger plans or were just scaling them back temporarily was unclear. In an interview, Ms. Levine denied that the abrupt introduction of Music Beta was a negotiating tactic. But music executives said that since Amazon introduced Cloud Drive -- with almost no advance notice to the labels -- it has been in discussions over licenses, and these executives, speaking anonymously, said they expected Google to eventually return to the negotiating table.
A more robust digital music service would attract more users to Google. But Mr. Goldring said that it was the labels that really needed to strike a deal.
''At the end of the day they're clearly hurting themselves,'' he said, ''because they're leaving money on the table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Google manager, Paul Joyce, helped introduce the service, called Music Beta, on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); MUSIC (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (88%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); SMARTPHONES (67%); TABLET COMPUTERS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



321 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 843 words

PERSON: Horace F. Judson 

HEADLINE: Horace F. Judson, 80, Historian of Science

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Horace Freeland Judson, a science writer whose 1979 book ''The Eighth Day of Creation'' is regarded as the definitive account of the breakthroughs that transformed molecular biology in the mid-20th century, died on Friday at his home in Baltimore. He was 80.
The cause was complications of a stroke, his daughter Olivia said. 
Ten years in the making and based on interviews with more than a hundred scientists, ''The Eighth Day of Creation: Makers of the Revolution in Biology'' revisited the critical discoveries in molecular biology, notably the double-helix structure of DNA, its mode of replication and the role of RNA and proteins in carrying out its commands.
''It stands entirely by itself,'' said the molecular biologist Matthew Meselson, who is prominent in its pages. ''If he had not written it, there never would have been an account of the DNA revolution equal to its importance, that captures what really went on.''
With a novelist's sense of pace and drama, Mr. Judson put arcane scientific information within the reach of the common reader while weaving a tale rich in incident, conflict and character.
''As scientists understand very well, personality has always been an inseparable part of their styles of inquiry and a potent, if unacknowledged, factor in their results,'' he wrote. ''Indeed, no art or popular entertainment is so carefully built as is science upon the individual talents, preferences and habits of its leaders.''
The physicist and author Jeremy Bernstein, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called it ''one of the best books of popular or semi-popular science writing I have ever read,'' and pointed to the author's dogged interviewing as a key to its power.
''It is as if one were in the classroom with a dozen or so of the world's greatest biologists, with Mr. Judson acting as the informed student,'' he wrote. ''We learn as he is learning.''
Mr. Judson described his approach as a fusion of journalism and history, with a strong emphasis on first-person testimony. In an interview with the reference work Contemporary Authors, he said that ''in an era in which more than half the scientists who have ever lived are still alive, I am repeatedly surprised to find that historians of science are reluctant to attempt interviews or rely on them.''
Horace Freeland Judson was born on April 21, 1931, in Manhattan. He contracted polio at 13, and the disease left him with a withered right arm, a disability he learned to disguise.
At 15, he entered the University of Chicago, where Mr. Meselson was a friend and classmate. After earning a bachelor's degree in 1948, he spent a year in Berlin, where his father, an economist, was working for the Allied government.
On returning to the United States, he worked at writing and editing jobs in New York and wrote a book, ''The Techniques of Reading,'' before being hired in 1963 by Time magazine, for which he reviewed books and reported on the arts and sciences from London and Paris.
While interviewing Bob Dylan during his 1965 tour of Britain, Mr. Judson found himself on the receiving end of a Dylan tirade against Time that remains one of the more colorful scenes in D. A. Pennebaker's documentary film ''Don't Look Back.''
Mr. Judson later said in an interview with Howard Sounes, the author of ''Down the Highway: The Life of Bob Dylan,'' that he thought the outburst had been contrived to spice up the film. ''The whole episode was entirely unprovoked,'' he said. ''That evening, I went to the concert. My opinion then and now was that the music was unpleasant, the lyrics inflated and Dylan a self-indulgent, whining show-off.''
While in Britain, Mr. Judson became acquainted with Max Perutz, the Austrian-born molecular biologist and Nobel laureate known for his work on hemoglobin. He planned a book on the discovery of the structures of cellular macromolecules but soon broadened his focus to embrace the history of molecular biology, and this became his project for the next decade.
Mr. Judson's first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, Penelope Jones, died in 1993. In addition to his daughter Olivia, of Berlin, an evolutionary biologist and the author of ''Dr. Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex,'' he is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Brooklyn, and Nicholas, of Boston; another daughter, Grace, of San Diego; and a sister, Judith, of Arlington, Va.
Although Mr. Judson had no science degrees, he taught the history of science at Johns Hopkins University from 1981 to 1990 and spent four years as a senior research scholar at Stanford University before being named the director of the Center for History of Recent Science at George Washington University, where he taught from 1994 to 2003.
While researching ''The Eighth Day of Creation,'' Mr. Judson completed his second book, ''Heroin Addiction in Britain.'' He later published two other books on science, ''The Search for Solutions'' (1980), a series of essays on how scientists approach their work, and ''The Great Betrayal: Fraud in Science'' (2004).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Horace Freeland Judson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (92%); BIOLOGY (91%); DNA (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOCHEMISTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HISTORY (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); BERLIN, GERMANY (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (50%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

TITLE: Eighth Day of Creation, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



322 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Strong Earnings and Skype Deal Lift Wall Street

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Corporate deals and strong earnings have been credited with driving stocks higher this year, and news on Tuesday continued that trend.
Microsoft announced early in the day that it would buy the Internet telephone service Skype for $8.5 billion in cash in another sign that cash-rich companies are starting to spend. Corporations have built up a record amount of cash over the last several years, and they have started using it to purchase rivals, pay dividends and also expand their businesses. That, in turn, has led to increased confidence among money managers and other investors that stocks are going to continue to rise.
Large companies also want to put their cash stockpiles to work because they're getting minimal returns on them, said Oliver Pursche, president of Gary Goldberg Financial Services. Interest rates for short-term savings pay less than 1 percent. ''The crisis is behind us,'' he said. Companies ''don't need this much cash anymore.'' 
The Skype purchase would be Microsoft's largest in its 36-year history. It follows AT&T's announcement in March that it would buy T-Mobile USA for $39 billion and Johnson & Johnson's $21.3 billion deal announced last month to acquire Synthes, a maker of medical instruments and implants.
CKx Inc., which owns the rights to the names and images of Muhammad Ali and Elvis Presley, jumped 22 percent after it agreed to be bought by private equity investors. The buyout group will pay about $511 million for the company, which also owns the ''American Idol'' television show.
Also on Tuesday, the dairy producer Dean Foods and Medifast reported earnings that beat analysts' expectations. Dean had a stronger start to the year than it expected and raised its forecast for full-year earnings. The company also said it would raise prices to help combat falling milk sales. Shares of Dean jumped 11 percent.
Shares of Medifast, which operates a weight-loss program, rose 18 percent.
Boston Scientific sank 9 percent after the medical device company said its president and chief executive, J. Raymond Elliott, would retire at the end of the year. The company is looking for his successor.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 75.68 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 12,760.36. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.87 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,357.16. The Nasdaq composite index gained 28.64 points, or 1 percent, to 2,871.89.
Stocks have risen sharply in 2011, driven by strong earnings reports from major companies like Caterpillar and Apple. The S.& P. 500 is up 8 percent, more than it gained in five of the last 10 full calendar years.
Companies in the S.& P. 500 are on track to report first-quarter earnings growth of 19 percent, according to FactSet. That's far ahead of the 11 percent that analysts were forecasting at the end of 2010. Nearly nine out of 10 companies in the index have reported results already.
Crude oil wavered but gained $1.33 to settle at $103.88 per barrel. The Bureau of Labor Statistics said Tuesday that higher fuel costs drove prices for imports into the United States up 2.2 percent last month. It is the first time import prices have topped 2 percent in consecutive months since June 2008.
Metals futures recovered more of their losses from last week's sell-off. Silver rose to $38.48 per ounce. Silver has more than doubled over the last year, but is still about $10 below where it was at the end of April.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 16/32, to 103 13/32. The yield rose to 3.21 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (87%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (87%); EXECUTIVES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); MEDICAL DEVICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); MILK (63%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); DIETING (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%); SKYPE SARL (92%); CKX INC (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (55%); DEAN FOODS CO (53%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); JNJ (NYSE) (68%); DF (NYSE) (53%); BSX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS711410 AGENTS & MANAGERS FOR ARTISTS, ATHLETES, ENTERTAINERS & OTHER PUBLIC FIGURES (82%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (52%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (52%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



323 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: From the Investigator: The Inquiry Into Countrywide

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''A Financial Crisis With Little Guilt'' (front page, April 14), you reported that the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission ''decided not to make an in-depth examination'' of Countrywide and that ''Countrywide was off limits.'' 
As the person responsible for the Countrywide investigation, I don't know how anyone could have arrived at this conclusion when in fact the commission conducted an exhaustive examination of the company. There were absolutely no efforts to constrain the investigation. Our investigation included an extensive review of documents produced by Countrywide, various regulators and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
We also reviewed many publicly available documents, including those from Congressional investigations, earnings releases, conference call transcripts, Securities and Exchange Commission filings, media and analyst reports, and lawsuits related to Countrywide. We interviewed more than 40 people, including Angelo Mozilo, former chief executive of Countrywide, and other employees, regulators and personnel at Fannie Mae and other market participants.
Our examination revealed, among other things, Countrywide's reckless lending practices, breakdowns in accountability and ethics, and its significant contributions to the financial crisis. Anyone who reads the final report will see firsthand evidence of our thorough investigation. I am confident that the last thing anyone will think is that we let up on Countrywide.
CHRISTOPHER SEEFER Walnut Creek, Calif., May 9, 2011
The writer was director of investigations for the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); TRANSCRIPTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



324 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: A Sharp Increase in Appraisals for Queens Co-ops Brings Protests

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
Sherry Davis, more kindly aunt than urban radical, proudly acknowledges that until recently she had not attended a protest since the Vietnam War.
But last week, amid fears that the assessed value of her co-op in Douglaston, Queens, could more than double, she took to the streets near City Hall in Manhattan as part of a boroughwide tax revolt that has combined Queens-style gumption with the antitax indignation of the Tea Party movement.
''How it is possible that the values of our properties can go up by more than 100 percent during one of the biggest real estate declines in a generation?'' asked Ms. Davis, 63, a sales representative for a Korean brush maker, during a public hearing last week on the issue at Queens Borough Hall. ''This is the last affordable part of New York City -- this isn't Chelsea or the Upper East Side for goodness' sake -- and we risk being priced out of our own neighborhood.'' 
The visceral anger of the rebels -- many of them silver-haired school teachers, taxi drivers and retired nurses -- was first fanned in January, when it began to emerge that the city's Finance Department appeared to have made a mistake in assessing some properties in Queens and had accidentally inflated market values on some co-ops by as much as 147 percent, clearing the way for an increase in the owners' property taxes.
The city initially defended its figures, saying co-ops in Queens had been undervalued in past years, compared with those in Brooklyn and Manhattan. But by April, it was forced to acknowledge a problem. It attributed the situation to a computer error, saying the wrong data had been given to assessors to calculate the value of the properties.
City Comptroller John C. Liu plans to audit the property rolls to determine what happened.
Under state law, co-ops must be valued as if they were rental properties, and the city obtains those values by searching neighboring comparable rental units. Officials said an error occurred when its computer system searched higher-rent commercial properties, including gas stations and restaurants, instead. It has since reduced the values of dozens of affected co-op buildings, many of them in northeast Queens.
Under a barrage of criticism, the Finance Department has also capped the market value increases it imposed on co-ops and condominiums citywide at 50 percent (and in some cases the cap can go as low as 10 percent). Officials say the intent is to limit property tax increases to 10 percent.
But at the hearing, which was attended by a contrite and red-faced David M. Frankel, the finance commissioner, the nearly 60 or so people who came showed little sign of backing down.
Deirdre Ruiz, 68, who teaches English as a second language and is a friend and co-op neighbor of Ms. Davis, said that even with the city's compromise, she feared she would have a hard time paying off her mortgage. Ms. Ruiz said the property assessment increase was an assault by the Bloomberg administration on the middle class. If the last bastion of affordable housing in Queens was taken away, she warned, ''we will see the continued flight of middle-class people from New York City.''
The heated debate over the assessment of co-ops particularly resonates in Queens, where the process was pioneered in the 1920s and gave a generation of newcomers the chance to own shares in their own homes.
Mr. Frankel said at the hearing that the city had moved to correct the values of 40 properties that had been erroneously compared with commercial ones. He said his department had the task this year of valuing more than one million properties. Asked by residents why the city had taken so long to admit its mistake, he said, ''It could be we didn't get back to you soon enough.''
But Mr. Frankel stood by his previous assertion that Queens properties had been undervalued and insisted that the city was not motivated by revenue when it made those appraisals. While residents complained that the sales values of their homes had plummeted during the economic downturn, he said that under state law, the city could not take that into consideration.
Bob Friedrich, president of a network of 50 co-op and condominium boards in Queens, said he was among the first to uncover the jarring discrepancy in the assessment rates. In the case of his co-op, the 2,904-unit Glen Oaks Village in northeast Queens, he said, the city's computer system had compared it with a fancy Italian restaurant nearby, a mistake he discovered after he tracked down the address and drove there himself, armed with a camera. The comparison, he said, had pushed the co-op's value up 86 percent.
''It was only after being caught red-handed that the city said, 'Oops, we had a computer glitch,' '' Mr. Friedrich said.
''But this isn't a computer glitch,'' he added. ''This is a Department of Finance scandal.''
State Senator Toby Ann Stavisky, a Queens Democrat, said she was surprised when she learned in January that her co-op, Cryder Point in Whitestone, Queens, had been valued at 147 percent more than it had been last year.
But on Monday, Ms. Stavisky's office said the city had informed it that the valuation had been reduced to a 6.5 percent increase. She is pressing to pass a bill that would treat owners of co-ops or condominiums like owners of single-family homes, whose annual assessment increases, she said, are capped at 6 percent.
Ms. Stavisky said that for many of her constituents in Queens, some of whom still faced double-digit valuation increases of their co-ops, the city's reduction in assessments was little comfort. ''The city cutting its assessed values of co-ops from 147 percent to 50 percent is like saying you don't have to be killed by firing squad, we will use the electric chair instead,'' Ms. Stavisky said. ''Either way, you are dead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deirdre Ruiz, left, of Douglaston, Queens, and her friend and neighbor Sherry Davis rallied against the city's assessments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); GAS STATIONS (66%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (56%); BROOM BRUSH & MOP MFG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



325 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Imported Goods Increase as the Dollar Declines

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Prices of goods imported into the United States rose 2.2 percent in April, more than forecast, as a slumping dollar and growing economies overseas pushed up the cost of fuel and food. 
The increase in the import-price index came after a revised 2.6 percent gain in March, according to figures from the Labor Department on Tuesday. Other reports showed distributors raised inventories and small businesses lost confidence.
The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase in import prices last month. Projections ranged from increases of 1 percent to 2.5 percent.
Compared with a year earlier, import prices increased 11 percent, exceeding the 10 percent increase projected by economists surveyed and the biggest 12-month gain in a year.
The increase in prices from overseas may put pressure on companies to pass on higher costs. The report on small businesses showed the share of those surveyed who planned to raise prices held in April at the highest level in 30 months.
''While many policy makers have described recent commodity cost increases as 'transitory,' the reality is that even at the small-business level, producers are increasingly more confident in their ability to pass on costs to customers,'' Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, said in a note to clients.
After a two-day meeting in Washington last month, Fed officials said the effect on inflation from the jump in fuel and other commodities will probably be ''transitory,'' according to a statement released April 27.
The officials also lowered their forecasts for growth, saying the economy is recovering at a ''moderate pace,'' and agreed to finish $600 billion of bond purchases on schedule in June.
Confidence among small companies fell to a seven-month low in April, damped by a deteriorating outlook for the economy, a report from the National Federation of Independent Business showed. The group's optimism index decreased to 91.2, the lowest since September, from 91.9 the prior month. Seven of the measure's 10 components dropped.
Small businesses planning to increase prices held at a net 24 percent of owners for a second month, according to the report.
Increasing sales are also prompting wholesalers to increase stockpiles, according to figures from the Commerce Department. Inventories climbed 1.1 percent in March as sales jumped 2.9 percent. At the current pace of sales, distributors had enough goods on hand to last 1.13 months, matching the level in June 2008 as the lowest on record.
The report on prices from overseas showed the cost of imported oil increased 7.2 percent from the previous month and was up 37 percent from a year earlier. Excluding all fuels, import prices climbed 4.3 percent from April 2010, matching the prior month's 12-month increase as the biggest since October 2008.
Imported food was 1.8 percent costlier last month and was up 20 percent from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month increase since records began in 1977.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (93%); IMPORT PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



326 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Disney Profit Declines 1%, Partly on Movies and Parks

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The Walt Disney Company took several financial blows in its most recent quarter but largely managed to contain the damage: profit dropped just 1 percent from a year earlier, to $942 million.
Disney, reporting financial results for its fiscal second quarter, had setbacks in three important areas -- movies, theme parks and interactive media.
At Walt Disney Studios, operating income dropped 65 percent, to $77 million, because of the flop ''Mars Needs Moms,'' which cost about $200 million to make and market but took in only $36.7 million at the global box office. In the year-ago quarter, Disney recorded strong DVD sales of Pixar films like ''Up,'' ''Toy Story'' and ''Toy Story 2.'' The quarter that just ended had no Pixar DVD releases of comparable size. 
Operating income at the company's theme parks, closely watched as a barometer of consumer confidence, declined 3 percent, to $145 million, because of lower royalty payments from Tokyo Disney Resort, which closed for more than a month after the March 11 earthquake.
The parks' performance for the period was also hurt by a calendar quirk that moved Easter out of the quarter and higher costs for fuel and other items at Disney Cruise Line.
Losses at Disney's interactive media unit grew to $115 million, from $55 million a year earlier, because of accounting related to the acquisition last year of Playdom, a maker of simple online games. The company has been struggling to turn around the division for years, most recently with broad management changes. Yet another overhaul of Disney.com is expected within months.
Disney shares closed Tuesday at $43.91, up 1.9 percent, then slipped about 3 percent to $42.66 in after-hours trading.
For the three months ended April 2, Disney, which is based in Burbank, Calif., had net income of $942 million, or 49 cents a share, down from $953 million, or 48 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 6 percent, to more than $9.07 billion, largely because of surging advertising sales and affiliate payments at ESPN and cable channels like ABC Family.
Income for Disney's television operation rose 17 percent, to $1.5 billion, offset by increased rights costs at ESPN, including for college bowl games. Robert A. Iger, Disney's president and chief executive, speaking on a conference call with analysts Tuesday, sought to calm concerns about increasing programming costs at ESPN but also said that it would not be shy about pursuing expensive new content deals.
''ESPN certainly plans to look at the Olympics seriously,'' Mr. Iger said.
Disney's consumer products division was another bright spot in the quarter. Its operating income increased 7 percent, to $142 million, because of improvements at Disney retail stores.
Mr. Iger was upbeat about the future. He noted that the television advertising market was booming and that even ABC, where ratings had eroded, was expected to fare well in the coming upfront advertising period, when commitments for ad spending are made. At the theme parks, an end to price discounts put in place at the height of the recession could increase per-capita spending in the high-volume summer.
And Walt Disney Studios has several movies on deck that are expected to be blockbusters, including ''Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides'' and ''Cars 2,'' both of which have enormous amounts of related retail merchandise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert A. Iger, president of the Walt Disney Company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIEL BOUYS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); FILM (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SPORTS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (84%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (76%); ROYALTIES (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); CABLE TELEVISION (65%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); CRUISES (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); WALT DISNEY CONSUMER PRODUCTS (80%); DISNEY CRUISE LINES (67%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (80%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (80%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



327 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Washington Weighs Choices in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CHARLIE SAVAGE; Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The killing of Osama bin Laden has set off a reassessment of the war in Afghanistan and the broader effort to combat terrorism, with Congress, the military and the Obama administration weighing the goals, strategies, costs and underlying authority for a conflict that is now almost a decade old.
Two influential senators -- John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana -- suggested Tuesday that it was time to rethink the Afghanistan war effort, forecasting the beginning of what promises to be a fierce debate about how quickly the United States should begin pulling troops out of the country. 
''We should be working toward the smallest footprint necessary, a presence that puts Afghans in charge and presses them to step up to that task,'' Mr. Kerry, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said at a hearing. ''Make no mistake, it is fundamentally unsustainable to continue spending $10 billion a month on a massive military operation with no end in sight.''
Both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lugar, the committee's senior Republican, said they remained opposed to a precipitous withdrawal.
Still, ''the broad scope of our activities suggests that we are trying to remake the economic, political and security culture of Afghanistan -- but that ambitious goal is beyond our power,'' Mr. Lugar said. ''A reassessment of our Afghanistan policy on the basis of whether our overall geostrategic interests are being served by spending roughly $10 billion a month in that country was needed before our troops took out Bin Laden.''
Inside the Pentagon, however, officials make the case that rather than using Bin Laden's death as a justification for withdrawal, the United States should continue the current strategy in Afghanistan to secure additional gains and to further pressure the Taliban to come to the bargaining table for negotiations on political reconciliation.
And in Congress, a debate is getting under way over the underlying authority used by two successive administrations to wage the post-Sept. 11 fight against terrorist organizations and their supporters.
The House Armed Services Committee is expected to take up a defense authorization bill on Wednesday that includes a new authorization for the government to use military force in the war on terrorism. The provision has set off an argument over whether it is a mere update -- or a sweeping, open-ended expansion -- of the power Congress granted to the executive branch in 2001.
The new authorization to use military force against Al Qaeda was unveiled by the committee chairman, Representative Howard P. McKeon, Republican of California. The committee is scheduled to vote Wednesday on amendments to the bill.
The provision states that Congress ''affirms'' that ''the United States is engaged in an armed conflict with Al Qaeda, the Taliban, and associated forces,'' and that the president is authorized to use military force -- including detention without trial -- of members and substantial supporters of those forces.
That language, which would codify into federal law a definition of the enemy that the Obama administration has adopted in defending against lawsuits filed by Guantanamo Bay detainees, would supplant the existing military force authorization that Congress passed overwhelmingly on Sept. 14, 2001. It instead named the enemy as the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 attacks.
Critics of Mr. McKeon's provision have reacted with alarm to what they see as an effort to entrench in a federal statute unambiguous authority for the executive branch to wage war against terrorists who are deemed associates of Al Qaeda but who lack a clear tie to the Sept. 11 attacks.
In a joint letter to Congress, about two dozen groups -- including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Center for Constitutional Rights -- contended that the proposal amounted to an open-ended grant of authority to the executive branch, legitimizing an unending war from Yemen to Somalia and beyond.
''This monumental legislation -- with a large-scale and practically irrevocable delegation of war power from Congress to the president -- could commit the United States to a worldwide war without clear enemies, without any geographical boundaries'' and ''without any boundary relating to time or specific objective to be achieved,'' the letter warned.
But Mr. McKeon argued in a statement that the provision did nothing more than codify the Obama administration's interpretation of its legal authority to address the threat of Al Qaeda in light of its splintering and evolution over the past decade.
''This bill does not expand the war effort,'' he said. ''Instead, the legislation better aligns the old legal authorities used to detain and prosecute those intent on attacking America with the threats our country faces today.''
President Obama will soon begin considering plans for making good on his pledge to begin withdrawing American troops from Afghanistan in July. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior commander in Afghanistan, is expected to submit his options soon for carrying out Mr. Obama's order.
On Tuesday, the commander of American and allied forces across the violent, contested provinces of eastern Afghanistan said that the death of Bin Laden might weaken the syndicate of insurgent groups battling the Kabul government, although it may take months to determine which might seek reconciliation and which will seek revenge.
The commander, Maj. Gen. John F. Campbell of the 101st Airborne Division, said during a video news conference to the Pentagon from his headquarters at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan that the death of Al Qaeda's founder might splinter historic ties between Al Qaeda and indigenous insurgent leaders in Afghanistan and Pakistan who helped protect it.
The insurgency is made up of a number of groups with different motivations, different goals and different relationships with Al Qaeda. The organizations may still be digesting the news of Bin Laden's death before deciding on a course of action.
General Campbell said he had not yet seen any increase in the flow of fighters from Pakistan or attacks attributed to revenge for Bin Laden's death.
Still, the images of Bin Laden living in comfort in a Pakistan safe house may undermine the morale of frontline insurgent fighters, General Campbell said, coming as some insurgent foot soldiers are said to be expressing frustration with their leadership's commanding from the relative safety of Pakistan.
''I think the insurgents are going to say, 'Hey, you know, why am I doing this?' '' he said. ''And I think there's great potential for many of the insurgents to say, 'Hey, I want to reintegrate.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators John Kerry, top, and Richard G. Lugar suggested that it was time to rethink the war effort in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Last month, American soldiers put on rain gear at the end of the first day of an operation with Afghan forces in Paktika Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICIO LIMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); DICK LUGAR (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); BUCK MCKEON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



328 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: In Border City Talk, Obama Urges G.O.P. to Help Overhaul Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Julia Preston contributed reporting from Tucson, and Michael D. Shear from Washington.

 BODY:
EL PASO -- President Obama came to this border city on Tuesday to argue that he is doing his part to crack down on illegal immigration, and that Republicans must now join him in overhauling the nation's immigration laws for the millions of workers already here illegally.
Mr. Obama's speech at a park within sight of the border with Mexico -- and a billowing 162-foot-by-93-foot Mexican flag -- was heavy with political overtones for 2012 and beyond, given the growing ranks of Latino voters in a number of swing states. He sought to reassure those increasingly frustrated voters of his commitment to liberalizing immigration laws as a moral and economic imperative, and to blame ''border security first'' Republicans in Congress for his inability to deliver on that promise.
''We have strengthened border security beyond what many believed was possible,'' Mr. Obama said, citing increases since the George W. Bush administration in the amount of fencing and aerial surveillance and the number of border agents, National Guard troops, intelligence analysts and deportations of illegal immigrants. 
His first stop here was at an inspection facility on the Rio Grande, one of the busiest of the 327 official ports of entry to the United States for cargo, vehicles and even walkers entering from Ciudad Juarez, a sprawling city afflicted by Mexico's drug wars.
''We have gone above and beyond what was requested by the very Republicans who said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious about enforcement,'' he added. ''All the stuff they asked for, we've done. But even though we've answered these concerns, I've got to say I suspect there are still going to be some who are trying to move the goal posts on us one more time'' -- to the point of seeking a moat and alligators, he joked. ''That's politics.''
Mr. Obama's own politics were central to the trip, his first to the border since he was elected with 67 percent of the Latino vote, which makes up a significant and expanding portion of the electorate in battleground states like Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and North Carolina.
In Texas, where Republicans have dominated since the 1980s, Democrats likewise look to one day regain power through the state's expanding Latino electorate -- though not likely in 2012. Even so, broadcasts of Mr. Obama's trip reached next door into New Mexico.
The visit, however, underscored a tension over Mr. Obama's immigration record that colors his re-election prospects: his boasts of strengthening border security win him no credit among Republican lawmakers and only alienate many Latinos so long as he cannot deliver on his campaign promise to them -- a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million immigrants already here illegally, many of them for years.
''If they think that this is going to be the thing that mobilizes an increasingly disappointed Latino electorate, I think they're wrong,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a group advocating for liberalized immigration. ''They are going to have to make some big administrative action to make up for the fact that he promised something big.''
Mr. Obama did not push comprehensive immigration legislation in his term's first two years, when Democrats controlled Congress, and it has virtually no chance of passage now that Republicans have a House majority. And he does not plan to introduce such legislation now, to the disappointment of some advocates.
But in his speech, Mr. Obama reiterated his goals: a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants that would require them to come forward, pay taxes and a penalty, and learn English; legal status for foreigners who graduate from colleges here and want to remain and start businesses; and the so-called Dream Act, providing citizenship to young people who were brought to the United States as children and receive an education or want to enter the military.
Back in Washington, Congressional Republicans dismissed his proposals.
''Providing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, as the president called for again today, without requiring illegal immigrants to return to their countries of origin and apply for legal status, is amnesty,'' said Representative Elton Gallegly of California, the chairman of a House subcommittee on immigration. ''Amnesty will not pass Congress, Mr. President.''
Without much chance of immigration changes becoming law, pro-immigration advocates are pushing Mr. Obama to take executive actions at least. Chief among them, they want the administration to quit deporting illegal immigrants and residents without criminal records. But Mr. Obama refuses to do that -- as he acknowledged here.
His administration is not acting ''haphazardly,'' he told the crowd, but ''as long as the current laws are on the books, it's not just hardened felons who are subject to removal, but sometimes families who are just trying to earn a living, or bright, eager students, or decent people with the best of intentions.''
The president's trip to Texas was his fifth event in four weeks to promote comprehensive immigration changes. He previously hosted three meetings at the White House with a wide range of groups, including Republicans, business leaders and Latino celebrities like the actress Eva Longoria of ''Desperate Housewives.'' And Mr. Obama gave the commencement address at Miami-Dade Community College in Florida, where his lines on immigration were among the most applauded.
Through the increased activities, including those involving cabinet members, the White House is seeking to show that Mr. Obama is not just checking a political box with an occasional speech or rally, but is actively pressing the issue -- and making sure people know Republicans are standing in the way.
''For the president's message to take hold, he must show that this is not a Hispanic issue, this is an American issue,'' said Lillian Rodriguez-Lopez, chairwoman of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, a coalition of the 30 leading Hispanic organizations in the United States.
''With a struggling economy and weakened labor force,'' Ms. Rodriguez-Lopez added, ''we cannot afford to prohibit the millions currently living in the shadows from fully contributing to our economy.''
Mr. Obama similarly put his case in economic terms. ''One way to strengthen the middle class in America is to reform the immigration system so that there is no longer a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap source of labor while depressing wages for everybody else,'' he said.
As with many trips lately, Mr. Obama combined the immigration policy speech with Democratic fund-raising. From El Paso, he flew to Austin, the state's liberal capital, for two such events, one a larger rally with lower-priced tickets and the other a smaller private dinner for high-dollar donors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, in El Paso on Tuesday to speak on immigration policy, looked toward the border with Mexico as he toured the Bridge of America Cargo Facility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DEPORTATION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



329 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Syrian Elite to Fight Protests to 'the End'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID

 BODY:
DAMASCUS, Syria -- Syria's ruling elite, a tight-knit circle at the nexus of absolute power, loyalty to family and a visceral instinct for survival, will fight to the end in a struggle that could cast the Middle East into turmoil and even war, warned Syria's most powerful businessman, a confidant and cousin of President Bashar al-Assad.
The frank comments by Rami Makhlouf, a tycoon who has emerged in the two-month uprising as a magnet for anger at the privilege that power brings, offered an exceedingly rare insight into the thinking of an opaque government, the prism through which it sees Syria, and the way it reaches decisions.
Troubled by the greatest threat to its four decades of rule, the ruling family, he suggested, has conflated its survival with the existence of the minority sect that views the protests not as legitimate demands for change but rather as the seeds of civil war. 
''If there is no stability here, there's no way there will be stability in Israel,'' he said in an interview Monday that lasted more than three hours. ''No way, and nobody can guarantee what will happen after, God forbid, anything happens to this regime.''
Asked if it was a warning or a threat, Mr. Makhlouf demurred. ''I didn't say war,'' he said. ''What I'm saying is don't let us suffer, don't put a lot of pressure on the president, don't push Syria to do anything it is not happy to do.''
His words cast into the starkest terms a sentiment the government has sought to cultivate -- us or chaos -- and it underlined the tactics of a ruling elite that has manipulated the ups and downs of a tumultuous region to sustain an overriding goal: its own survival.
Though the uprising has yet to spread to Syria's two largest cities -- Damascus, the capital, seemingly tranquil, and Aleppo, a key conservative bastion, has been relatively quiet -- the protests have unfurled in Damascus's suburbs and across much of the rest of the country, building on longstanding neglect of the countryside and anger at corrupt and unaccountable security forces. While the government offered tentative concessions early on, it has since carried out a ferocious crackdown, killing hundreds, arresting thousands and besieging four cities.
''The decision of the government now is that they decided to fight,'' Mr. Makhlouf said.
But even if it prevails, the uprising has demonstrated the weakness of a dictatorial government that once sought to draw legitimacy from a notion of Arab nationalism, a sprawling public sector that created the semblance of a middle class and services that delivered electricity to the smallest towns.
The government of Mr. Assad, though, is far different than that of his father, who seized power in 1970. A beleaguered state, shorn of ideology, can no longer deliver essential services or basic livelihood. Mr. Makhlouf's warnings of instability and sectarian strife like Iraq's have emerged as the government's rallying cry, as it deals with a degree of dissent that its officials admit caught them by surprise.
Mr. Makhlouf, a childhood friend and first cousin of Mr. Assad, whose brother is the intelligence chief in Damascus, suggested that the ruling elite -- staffed by Mr. Assad's relatives and contemporaries -- had grown even closer during the crisis. Though Mr. Assad has the final say, he said, policies were formulated as ''a joint decision.''
''We believe there is no continuity without unity,'' he said. ''As a person, each one of us knows we cannot continue without staying united together.''
He echoed an Arabic proverb, which translated loosely, means that it will not go down alone.
''We will not go out, leave on our boat, go gambling, you know,'' he said at his plush, wood-paneled headquarters in Damascus. ''We will sit here. We call it a fight until the end.'' He added later, ''They should know when we suffer, we will not suffer alone.''
Mr. Makhlouf, just 41 and leery of the limelight, stands as both a strength and liability of Mr. Assad's rule, and in the interview he was a study in contrasts -- a feared and reviled businessmen who went to lengths to be hospitable and mild-mannered. To the government's detractors, his unpopularity rivals perhaps only that of Mr. Assad's brother, Maher, who commands the Republican Guard and the elite Fourth Division that has played a crucial role in the crackdown.
Mr. Makhlouf's name was chanted in protests, and offices of his company, Syriatel, the country's largest cellphone company, were burned in Dara'a, the poor town near the Jordanian border where the uprising began in mid-March.
The American government, which imposed sanctions on him in 2008, has accused him of manipulating the judicial system and using Syrian intelligence to intimidate rivals. The European Union said Tuesday that Mr. Makhlouf was among more than a dozen Syrians who were subject to sanctions.
Asked why he believed he was the target of sanctions, he said: ''Because the president is my cousin, or I'm the cousin of the president. Full stop.'' He suggested that anger at him arose from jealousy and longstanding suspicions that he served as the family's banker.
''Maybe they are worried about using this money to support the regime,'' he said. ''I don't know. Maybe. But the regime has the whole government, they don't need me.''
He said he was aware of the anger, but called it ''the price I have to pay.''
Mr. Makhlouf represents broader changes afoot in the country. His very wealth points to the shifting constellation of power in Syria, as the old alliance of Sunni Muslim merchants and officers from Mr. Makhlouf's Alawite clan gives way to descendants of those officers benefiting from lucrative deals made possible by reforms that have dismantled the public sector.
He serves as an instrument, too, in Mr. Assad's vision of economic modernization, where Syria serves as a crossroads of regional trade and a hub for oil and gas pipelines that link Iraq and the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean and Europe. Cham Holdings, a vast conglomerate with a portfolio of $2 billion, in which Mr. Makhlouf owns a quarter of the shares outright, is at the forefront of that faltering scheme.
Turkey's recent anger at Syria's crackdown has fed feelings of betrayal in the government because Turkey was viewed as a centerpiece in that vision. Concerns are growing, too, over the uprising's economic impact, deepened by Syria's growing isolation and flight of capital -- a legacy that may very well prove more threatening to the government than the protests.
Mr. Makhlouf suggested that economic reform would stay primary.
''This is a priority for Syrians,'' he said. ''We have to ask for economic reform before speaking about political reform.'' He acknowledged that change had come late and limited. ''But if there is some delay,'' he added, ''it's not the end of the world.''
He warned the alternative -- led by what he described as Salafists, the government's name for Islamists -- would mean war at home and perhaps abroad.
''We won't accept it,'' he said. ''People will fight against them. Do you know what this means? It means catastrophe. And we have a lot of fighters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rami Makhlouf, the nation's top businessman, offered rare insight into the thinking of his government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BALKIS PRESS/ABACA USA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CORRUPTION (73%); SUBURBS (65%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%) SYRIA (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



330 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Spend $2 Billion in Hiring and to Upgrade U.S. Plants

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- General Motors said Tuesday that it would invest $2 billion in its factories in the United States to meet gradually growing demand for its products in the aftermath of its government-sponsored bankruptcy.
The company said its plans to upgrade 17 plants in eight states would create or save more than 4,000 jobs.
G.M.'s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, made the announcement at a transmission plant in this northern Ohio city, where the company will spend $204 million and retain 250 jobs. 
''We are doing this because we are confident about demand for our vehicles and the economy,'' Mr. Akerson said.
G.M. did not specify where and when it would make all the investments, preferring to announce positive news periodically to underscore its recovery from its 2009 bankruptcy.
''There's always going to be naysayers and there's always going to be people who buy a G.M. product no matter what,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Automotive. ''It's about influencing those people who are in the middle.''
About 1,350 of the jobs cited will be filled by current G.M. employees who are on layoff. Once those workers are recalled, the remaining positions will go to new hires at a lower wage rate.
The company's contract with the United Auto Workers union allows it to hire new workers at wages of $14 an hour -- half what it pays existing hourly employees.
The two-tier wage scale is expected to be a major topic at the bargaining table this summer, when G.M., Ford and Chrysler all negotiate new contracts with the U.A.W. The current four-year agreements expire in mid-September.
The U.A.W. vice president in charge of the G.M. division, Joe Ashton, said he expected all the laid-off workers to be recalled before the contract expired.
Mr. Ashton declined to say what changes the union might seek in the two-tier system during the negotiations.
''They will be discussed at the table,'' he said.
The union's president, Bob King, has said the U.A.W. hopes to get back some of the concessions it made during the last round of negotiations, in 2007, when Detroit's Big Three were in dire financial condition.
Since then, both G.M. and Chrysler were bailed out by the American taxpayers and drastically restructured in bankruptcy court. Ford recovered on its own without federal assistance and has reported healthy profits over the last two years.
G.M.'s announcement of new jobs and investments came after the company's announcement last week that it earned $3.2 billion in the first quarter of this year.
The company has been steadily revamping its product lineup since emerging from bankruptcy in the summer of 2009, adding more fuel-efficient small cars and crossover vehicles.
The transformation is starting to produce better sales and greater market share against rivals. G.M. reported domestic market share of 19.6 percent in the first four months of this year, compared to 18.7 percent for the same period a year ago.
''For the first time in a generation, in the last year we took market share,'' said Mr. Akerson.
G.M. has 49,000 hourly workers in the United States -- less than half the number it had five years ago.
Since emerging from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July 2009, G.M. had committed to investing $3.4 billion in its plants and to creating or preserving an estimated 9,000 jobs.
Tuesday's announcement of an additional $2 billion in investment is another step in the rebuilding process. In addition to the improvements in Toledo, the company said last week that it would spend $131 million at an assembly plant in Kentucky.
The United States government still owns a 26 percent stake in the automaker as part of the $50 billion taxpayer bailout. The Treasury Department could begin selling some of its remaining shares as soon as May 22, the first day it will be permitted to sell them under terms of G.M.'s initial public stock offering.
G.M. has ample cash reserves of more than $36 billion to upgrade and expand manufacturing facilities such as the Toledo plant.
''They're spending money so they can make money,'' said Ms. Lindland. ''And the more profitable they are, the better chance they have of decreasing the ownership of the government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at a General Motors transmission plant in Toledo, Ohio, cheered an announcement on Tuesday that the company would invest $205 million there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (89%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



331 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Critics Fear G.O.P.'s Proposed Medicaid Changes Could Cut Coverage for the Aged

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As Republicans inch away from their plan to reshape the nation's Medicare program, their equally transformative ideas for Medicaid, now largely in the shadows of the budget debate, are moving front and center.
While the largest number of Medicaid recipients are low-income children and adults, who tend to be far less politically potent voices in battles over entitlement programs than older voters, the changes to Medicaid proposed by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House budget chairman, could actually have a more direct impact on older Americans than the Medicare part of his plan.
The House plan would turn Medicaid, which provides health coverage for the poor through a combination of federal and state money, into a block grant program for states. The federal government would give lump sums to states, which in turn would be given more flexibility and independence over use of the money, though the plan does not spell out what the federal requirements would be. 
Beginning in 2013, these grants would increase annually at the rate of inflation, with adjustments for population growth, a rate far below that of inflation for health care costs. As a result, states, which have said that they cannot afford to keep up with the program's costs, are likely to scale back coverage. Such a reduction, critics fear, could have a disproportionate effect on Medicaid spending for nursing home care for the elderly or disabled.
By contrast, under the Medicare proposal approved by the House, no one currently 55 or older would see a change in benefits, which the House proposed to turn into a voucher-type program.
''This is a huge deal for the nation's seniors, and it's been largely unrecognized,'' said Jocelyn Guyer, the co-executive director of the Center for Children and Families at the Georgetown University Health Policy Institute. ''Obviously Medicaid is a program designed for low- and modest-income people. But when it comes to nursing homes, a lot of seniors start off middle class and pay for their care with private funds but end up using the Medicaid program.''
According to the Congressional Budget Office, in the 2010 fiscal year, 77 percent of people enrolled in Medicaid were children and families, while 23 percent were elderly or disabled. But 64 percent of Medicaid spending was for older Americans and people with disabilities, while 36 percent went to children and families.
According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, which analyzes health care issues, 7 of 10 nursing home residents are on Medicaid, in large part because even middle-class patients often run through their savings while in a nursing home and turn to the entitlement program.
The foundation recently estimated that a Medicaid block grant similar to the one proposed by Mr. Ryan could save $750 billion over 10 years. House Republicans also want to eliminate the expansion in Medicaid eligibility scheduled to take place in 2014 under the new health care law, which could result in savings of $610 billion.
According to a report released Tuesday by the foundation with the Urban Institute, by 2012, under the Ryan plan, Medicaid enrollment nationally could be 44 million people fewer than what it is projected to be under current law, which includes new additions to the program under the health care overhaul.
It is still possible that there will be some changes to the Medicare program this year, but Medicaid is quite likely a more politically viable area of change. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said Tuesday, ''Medicaid is a very important part of our plan.''
While the House passed the Ryan 2012 budget that includes changes to Medicare and Medicaid, it is dead on arrival in the Senate.
Another budget proposal offered Tuesday by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, increases Medicare spending, while using block grants for Medicaid in an effort to reduce Medicaid spending by 2019 to a level only $14 billion above what it was in the 2008 fiscal year.
It is likely that Democrats will strongly oppose block grants, arguing that such a plan would shift too many Medicaid costs to states that are already slashing their budgets. At a news conference last week, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia sharply criticized several of the ideas for reshaping Medicaid, calling broad-based cuts ''almost beyond my moral understanding.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); FAMILY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); INFLATION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



332 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: More Hopes Than Gains At U.S.-China Meetings

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Two days of high-level talks between the United States and China wrapped up Tuesday with both sides hailing modest progress on economic issues even as they traded harsh words about China's respect for human rights.
The grand scope and pomp of the talks, which have become an annual event involving hundreds of politicians, bureaucrats, generals and business executives, stood in striking contrast to the limited results, which included a Chinese promise to prevent government agencies from using pirated software. 
But both sides insisted in closing speeches Tuesday that meeting and talking in themselves were sufficient achievements, because they could lay the groundwork for grander bargains.
''As we say in China, spiritual things can be turned into material ones,'' said Cui Tiankai, vice minister of foreign affairs, describing the value of improved relations.
The meetings, which began in 2006 over solely economic issues, have expanded steadily to encompass the full range of the countries' relationship, including talks between military leaders for the first time this year.
The issue of human rights shadowed the meetings. Chastising the Chinese is a political necessity for American officials, but both Hillary Rodham Clinton, the secretary of state, and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. carefully measured their criticism in public remarks on Monday.
Then, in an interview published Tuesday on The Atlantic's Web site, Mrs. Clinton went much further, calling China's record on human rights ''deplorable'' and suggesting that a popular demand for democracy eventually would unseat China's rulers, just as it had undermined several governments in the Middle East and North Africa.
''They're worried, and they are trying to stop history, which is a fool's errand,'' she told the magazine, speaking of the government's crackdown in response to the democracy demonstrations in the Arab world. ''They cannot do it. But they're going to hold it off as long as possible.''
Asked about the issue later on Tuesday in the presence of Chinese officials, Mrs. Clinton was again more measured, saying that every nation was different but that she had discussed the uprisings with the Chinese.
Mr. Cui responded on Tuesday, saying that the reason other countries raise the issue of human rights in China ''is probably that they are trying to make some political gains and hoping that this can draw attention from the press.
''Human rights in China has made historic progress in the last few decades,'' Mr. Cui said. He added that every country, including the United States, needed to keep making progress.
Meanwhile the two countries continue to deepen economic ties.
The Bush administration initiated these meetings, recognizing that the Chinese wanted the United States to demonstrate greater respect for their emerging power and hoping to break longstanding deadlocks on significant issues.
The focus initially was almost entirely on America's lopsided trade relationship with China, which sends much of its goods to the United States and buys relatively little in return. American officials contend that China suppresses the value of its currency to help preserve this imbalance, and have pressed China for years to let the currency rise in value.
But those issues have somewhat receded in importance lately as China has allowed its currency to rise against the dollar by about 10 percent, including inflation. American exports to China have also grown rapidly.
''We are seeing very promising shifts in the direction of Chinese economic policy,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Tuesday.
Just before the second day of talks, which focused on the balance of trade between the countries, China published monthly data showing its exports exceeded imports by $11.43 billion in April, a sharp increase from the first three months of the year. A senior Treasury official said policy makers did not focus on monthly fluctuations, however, and continued to see a positive trend in the balance of trade.
American officials also hailed progress on smaller issues.
The Chinese government agreed, for example, to make it easier for foreign companies to win government contracts by eliminating a system of preferences for products listed in special directories -- generally those made by Chinese companies.
John Frisbie, president of the US-China Business Council, which represents the interests of American companies in China, said 25 percent of the group's member companies had lost government contracts in the last year because of the policy.
''I think the dialogue showed again why engagement with China mattered, because there were results that were important for U.S. companies,'' Mr. Frisbie said.
American officials also pressed China to adopt financial reforms aimed at increasing domestic consumption as an alternative to economic growth fueled by exports. Here, too, the two sides reported small steps, including a pledge ''to advance toward allowing'' foreign companies to sell auto insurance in China, which is now the world's largest market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, left, and Vice Premier Wang Qishan of China during economic talks this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (69%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



333 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4092 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Remarks on Immigration

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Following is a text of President Obama's remarks on immigration, delivered Tuesday in El Paso, as released by the White House:
THE PRESIDENT: Hello, El Paso! (Applause.) Well, it is wonderful -- wonderful to be back with all of you in the Lone Star State. (Applause.) Everything is bigger in Texas. (Applause.)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you!
THE PRESIDENT: I love you back! (Applause.) Even the welcomes are bigger. (Applause.) So, in appreciation, I wanted to give a big policy speech outside on a really hot day. (Laughter.) Those of you who are still wearing your jackets, feel free to take them off. I hope everybody is wearing sunscreen. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We live here.
THE PRESIDENT: You say you live here? You don't need it, huh? (Laughter.) Well, it is a great honor to be here. And I want to express my appreciation to all of you for taking the time to come out today.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you!
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. (Applause.)
You know, about a week ago, I delivered a commencement address at Miami Dade Community College, which is one of the most diverse schools in the nation. The graduates were proud that their class could claim heritage from 181 countries around the world -- 181 countries. (Applause.)
Many of the students were immigrants themselves, coming to America with little more than the dream of their parents and the clothes on their back. A handful had discovered only in adolescence or adulthood that they were undocumented. But they worked hard and they gave it their all, and so they earned those diplomas.
And at the ceremony, 181 flags -- one for every nation that was represented -- was marched across the stage. And each one was applauded by the graduates and the relatives with ties to those countries. So when the Haitian flag went by, all the Haitian kids -- Haitian American kids shouted out. And when the Guatemalan flag went by, all the kids of Guatemalan heritage shouted out. And when the Ukrainian flag went by, I think one kid shouted out. (Laughter.) This was down in Miami. (Laughter.) If it had been in Chicago, there would have been more.
But then, the last flag, the American flag, came into view. And everyone in the room erupted in applause. Everybody cheered. (Applause.) So, yes, their parents and grandparents -- some of the graduates themselves -- had come from every corner of the globe. But it was here that they had found opportunity. It was here that they had a chance to contribute to the nation that is their home.
And it was a reminder of a simple idea, as old as America itself: E pluribus unum. Out of many, one. We define ourselves as a nation of immigrants -- a nation that welcomes those willing to embrace America's ideals and America's precepts. That's why millions of people, ancestors to most of us, braved hardship and great risk to come here -- so they could be free to work and worship and start a business and live their lives in peace and prosperity. The Asian immigrants who made their way to California's Angel Island. The German and Scandinavians who settled across the Midwest. The waves of Irish, and Italian, and Polish, and Russian, and Jewish immigrants who leaned against the railing to catch their first glimpse of the Statue of Liberty.
This flow of immigrants has helped make this country stronger and more prosperous. (Applause.) We can point to the genius of Einstein, the designs of I. M. Pei, the stories of Isaac Asimov, the entire industries that were forged by Andrew Carnegie.
And then when I think about immigration I think about the naturalization ceremonies that we've held at the White House for members of our military. Nothing could be more inspiring. Even though they were not yet citizens when they joined our military, these men and women signed up to serve.
We did one event at the White House and a young man named Granger Michael from Papua New Guinea, a Marine who had been deployed to Iraq three times, was there. And you know what he said about becoming an American citizen? He said, ''I might as well. I love this country already.'' That's all he said. Marines aren't big on speeches. (Laughter.)
Another was a woman named Perla Ramos who was born and raised in Mexico and came to the United States shortly after 9/11, and joined the Navy. And she said, ''I take pride in our flag and the history we write day by day.''
That's the promise of this country -- that anyone can write the next chapter in our story. It doesn't matter where you come from -- (applause) -- it doesn't matter where you come from; it doesn't matter what you look like; it doesn't matter what faith you worship. What matters is that you believe in the ideals on which we were founded; that you believe that all of us are created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. (Applause.) All of us deserve our freedoms and our pursuit of happiness. In embracing America, you can become American. That is what makes this country great. That enriches all of us.
And yet, at the same time, we're here at the border today -- (applause) -- we're here at the border because we also recognize that being a nation of laws goes hand in hand with being a nation of immigrants. This, too, is our heritage. This, too, is important. And the truth is, we've often wrestled with the politics of who is and who isn't allowed to come into this country. This debate is not new.
At times, there has been fear and resentment directed towards newcomers, especially in hard economic times. And because these issues touch deeply on what we believe, touch deeply on our convictions -- about who we are as a people, about what it means to be an American -- these debates often elicit strong emotions.
That's one reason it's been so difficult to reform our broken immigration system. When an issue is this complex, when it raises such strong feelings, it's easier for politicians to defer until the problem the next election. And there's always a next election.
So we've seen a lot of blame and a lot of politics and a lot of ugly rhetoric around immigration. And we've seen good faith efforts from leaders of both parties -- by the way, I just noticed, those of you who have chairs, if you want to sit down, feel free. There's no rule about having to stand when I'm --
AUDIENCE MEMBER: -- we love you! (Applause.)
THE PRESIDENT: But we've seen leaders of both parties who try to work on this issue, but then their efforts fell prey to the usual Washington games. And all the while, we've seen the mounting consequences of decades of inaction.
Today, there are an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants here in the United States. Some crossed the border illegally. Others avoid immigration laws by overstaying their visas. Regardless of how they came, the overwhelming majority of these folks are just trying to earn a living and provide for their families. (Applause.)
But we have to acknowledge they've broken the rules. They've cut in front of the line. And what is also true is that the presence of so many illegal immigrants makes a mockery of all those who are trying to immigrate legally.
Also, because undocumented immigrants live in the shadows, where they're vulnerable to unscrupulous businesses that skirt taxes, and pay workers less than the minimum wage, or cut corners with health and safety laws, this puts companies who follow the rules, and Americans who rightly demand the minimum wage or overtime or just a safe place to work, it puts those businesses at a disadvantage.
Think about it. Over the past decade, even before the recession hit, middle-class families were struggling to get by as the costs went up for everything, from health care, to college tuition, to groceries, to gas. Their incomes didn't go up with those prices. We're seeing it again right now with gas prices.
So one way to strengthen the middle class in America is to reform the immigration system so that there is no longer a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap source of labor while depressing wages for everybody else. I want incomes for middle-class families to rise again. (Applause.) I want prosperity in this country to be widely shared. (Applause.) I want everybody to be able to reach that American dream. And that's why immigration reform is an economic imperative. It's an economic imperative. (Applause.)
And reform will also help to make America more competitive in the global economy. Today, we provide students from around the world with visas to get engineering and computer science degrees at our top universities. (Applause.)
But then our laws discourage them from using those skills to start a business or a new industry here in the United States. Instead of training entrepreneurs to stay here, we train them to create jobs for our competition. That makes no sense. In a global marketplace, we need all the talent we can attract, all the talent we can get to stay here to start businesses -- not just to benefit those individuals, but because their contribution will benefit all Americans.
Look at Intel, look at Google, look at Yahoo, look at eBay. All those great American companies, all the jobs they've created, everything that has helped us take leadership in the high-tech industry, every one of those was founded by, guess who, an immigrant. (Applause.)
So we don't want the next Intel or the next Google to be created in China or India. We want those companies and jobs to take root here. (Applause.) Bill Gates gets this. He knows a little something about the high-tech industry. He said, ''The United States will find it far more difficult to maintain its competitive edge if it excludes those who are able and willing to help us compete.''
So immigration is not just the right thing to do. It's smart for our economy. It's smart for our economy. (Applause.) And it's for this reason that businesses all across America are demanding that Washington finally meet its responsibilities to solve the immigration problem. Everybody recognizes the system is broken. The question is, will we finally summon the political will to do something about it? And that's why we're here at the border today.
And I want to say I am joined today by an outstanding Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, who's been working tirelessly on this issue. (Applause.) Our commissioner who's working diligently on border issues, Alan Bersin, is there, and we appreciate him -- Bersin. (Applause.)
So they're doing outstanding work. And in recent years, among one of the greatest impediments to reform were questions about border security. And these were legitimate concerns. What was true was a lack of manpower and a lack of resources at the border, combined with the pull of jobs and ill-considered enforcement once folks were in the country.
All this contributed to a growing number of undocumented people living in the United States. And these concerns helped unravel a bipartisan coalition that we had forged back when I was in the United States Senate. So in the years since, ''borders first, borders first,'' that's become the common refrain, even among those who were previously supportive of comprehensive immigration reform.
But over the last two years, thanks to the outstanding work of Janet and Alan and everybody who's down here working at the border, we've answered those concerns. Under their leadership, we have strengthened border security beyond what many believed was possible. They wanted more agents at the border. Well, we now have more boots on the ground on the southwest border than at any time in our history. (Applause.)
The Border Patrol has 20,000 agents -- more than twice as many as there were in 2004. It's a build-up that began under President Bush and that we've continued, and I had a chance to meet some of these outstanding agents, and actually saw some of them on horseback who looked pretty tough. (Laughter.) So we put the agents here.
Then they wanted a fence. Well, the fence is --
AUDIENCE: Booo!
THE PRESIDENT: The fence is now basically complete.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Tear it down!
THE PRESIDENT: Then we've gone further. We tripled the number of intelligence analysts working at the border. I've deployed unmanned aerial vehicles to patrol the skies from Texas to California. We have forged a partnership with Mexico to fight the transnational criminal organizations that have affected both of our countries. (Applause.) And for the first time -- for the first time we're screening 100 percent of southbound rail shipments to seize guns and money going south even as we go after drugs that are coming north. (Applause.)
So, here's the point. I want everybody to listen carefully to this. We have gone above and beyond what was requested by the very Republicans who said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious about enforcement. All the stuff they asked for, we've done. But even though we've answered these concerns, I've got to say I suspect there are still going to be some who are trying to move the goal posts on us one more time.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: They're racist!
THE PRESIDENT: You know, they said we needed to triple the Border Patrol. Or now they're going to say we need to quadruple the Border Patrol. Or they'll want a higher fence. Maybe they'll need a moat. (Laughter.) Maybe they want alligators in the moat. (Laughter.) They'll never be satisfied. And I understand that. That's politics.
But the truth is the measures we've put in place are getting results. Over the past two and a half years, we've seized 31 percent more drugs, 75 percent more currency, 64 percent more weapons than ever before. (Applause.) And even as we have stepped up patrols, apprehensions along the border have been cut by nearly 40 percent from two years ago. That means far fewer people are attempting to cross the border illegally.
And also, despite a lot of breathless reports that have tagged places like El Paso as dangerous, violent crime in southwest border counties has dropped by a third. El Paso and other cities and towns along this border are consistently among the safest in the nation. (Applause.) Of course, we shouldn't accept any violence or crime. And we've always got more work to do. But this progress is important and it's not getting reported on.
And we're also going beyond the border. Beyond the border, we're going after employers who knowingly exploit people and break the law. (Applause.) And we are deporting those who are here illegally. And that's a tough issue. It's a source of controversy.
But I want to emphasize we're not doing it haphazardly. We're focusing our limited resources and people on violent offenders and people convicted of crimes -- not just families, not just folks who are just looking to scrape together an income. And as a result, we've increased the removal of criminals by 70 percent. (Applause.)
That's not to ignore the real human toll of a broken immigration system. Even as we recognize that enforcing the law is necessary, we don't relish the pain that it causes in the lives of people who are just trying to get by and get caught up in the system.
And as long as the current laws are on the books, it's not just hardened felons who are subject to removal, but sometimes families who are just trying to earn a living, or bright, eager students, or decent people with the best of intentions. (Applause.)
And sometimes when I talk to immigration advocates, they wish I could just bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that's not how a democracy works. What we really need to do is to keep up the fight to pass genuine, comprehensive reform. That is the ultimate solution to this problem. That's what I'm committed to doing. (Applause.)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, we can! Yes, we can!
THE PRESIDENT: Yes, we can. We can do it. (Applause.)
AUDIENCE: Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!
THE PRESIDENT: The most significant step we can now take to secure the borders is to fix the system as a whole so that fewer people have the incentive to enter illegally in search of work in the first place. This would allow agents to focus on the worst threats on both of our -- both sides of our borders, from drug traffickers to those who would come here to commit acts of violence or terror. That's where our focus should be.
So, El Paso, the question is whether those in Congress who previously walked away in the name of enforcement are now ready to come back to the table and finish the work that we've started. (Applause.) We've got to put the politics aside. And if we do, I'm confident we can find common ground.
Washington is lagging behind the country on this. There is already a growing coalition of leaders across America who don't always see eye-to-eye, but are coming together on this issue. They see the harmful consequences of a broken immigration system for their businesses and for their communities, and they understand why we need to act.
There are Democrats and Republicans, people like former Republican Senator Mel Martinez; former Bush administration Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff; leaders like Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York; evangelical ministers like Leith Anderson and Bill Hybels; police chiefs from across the nation; educators; advocates; labor unions; chambers of commerce; small business owners; Fortune 500 CEOs.
I mean, one CEO had this to say about reform: ''American ingenuity is a product of the openness and diversity of this society. Immigrants have made America great as the world leader in business, in science, higher education and innovation.'' You know who that leader was? Rupert Murdoch, who owns FOX News, and is an immigrant himself. I don't know if you're familiar with Rupert Murdoch's views, but let's just say he doesn't have an Obama sticker on his car. (Laughter.) But he agrees with me on this. (Applause.)
So there is a consensus around fixing what's broken. And now we need Congress to catch up. Now we need to come together around reform that reflects our values as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants; reform that demands that everybody take responsibility. So what would comprehensive reform look like?
First, we know that government has a threshold responsibility to secure our borders and enforce the law. And that's what Janet and all her folks are doing. That's what they're doing. (Applause.)
Second, businesses have to be held accountable if they exploit undocumented workers. (Applause.)
Third, those who are here illegally, they have a responsibility as well. So they broke the law, and that means they've got to pay their taxes, they've got to pay a fine, they've got to learn English. And they've got to undergo background checks and a lengthy process before they get in line for legalization. That's not too much to ask. (Applause.)
And fourth, stopping illegal immigration also depends on reforming our outdated system of legal immigration. (Applause.) We should make it easier for the best and the brightest to not only stay here, but also to start businesses and create jobs here. In recent years, a full 25 percent of high-tech startups in the U.S. were founded by immigrants. That led to 200,000 jobs here in America. I'm glad those jobs are here. I want to see more of them created in this country. We need to provide them the chance. (Applause.)
We need to provide our farms a legal way to hire workers that they rely on, and a path for those workers to earn legal status. (Applause.) And our laws should respect families following the rules -- reuniting them more quickly instead of splitting them apart. (Applause.)
Today, the immigration system not only tolerates those who break the rules, but it punishes folks who follow the rules. While applications -- while applicants wait for approval, for example, they're often forbidden from visiting the United States. Even husbands and wives may have to spend years apart. Parents can't see their children. I don't believe the United States of America should be in the business of separating families. That's not right. That's not who we are. We can do better than that. (Applause.)
And we should stop punishing innocent young people for the actions of their parents. (Applause.) We should stop denying them the chance to earn an education or serve in the military. And that's why we need to pass the DREAM Act. (Applause.) Now, we passed the DREAM Act through the House last year when Democrats were in control. But even though it received a majority of votes in the Senate, it was blocked when several Republicans who had previously supported the DREAM Act voted no.
That was a tremendous disappointment to get so close and then see politics get in the way. And as I gave that commencement at Miami Dade, it broke my heart knowing that a number of those promising, bright students -- young people who worked so hard and who speak about what's best in America -- are at risk of facing the agony of deportation. These are kids who grew up in this country. They love this country. They know no other place to call home. The idea that we'd punish them is cruel. It makes no sense. We're a better nation than that. (Applause.)
So we're going to keep fighting for the DREAM Act. We're going to keep up the fight for reform. (Applause.) And that's where you come in. I'm going to do my part to lead a constructive and civil debate on these issues. And we've already had a series of meetings about this at the White House in recent weeks. We've got leaders here and around the country helping to move the debate forward.
But this change ultimately has to be driven by you, the American people. You've got to help push for comprehensive reform, and you've got to identify what steps we can take right now -- like the DREAM Act, like visa reform -- areas where we can find common ground among Democrats and Republicans and begin to fix what's broken.
So I'm asking you to add your voices to this debate. You can sign up to help at whitehouse.gov. We need Washington to know that there is a movement for reform that's gathering strength from coast to coast. That's how we'll get this done. That's how we can ensure that in the years ahead we are welcoming the talents of all who can contribute to this country and that we're living up to the basic American idea that you can make it here if you try. (Applause.)
That's the idea that gave hope to Jose Hernandez. Is Jose here? Where's -- Jose is right over there. (Applause.) I want you to hear -- I want you to think about this story. Jose's parents were migrant farm workers. And so, growing up, he was too. He was born in California, though he could have just as easily been born on the other side of the border, if it had been a different time of year, because his family moved around with the seasons. So two of his siblings were actually born in Mexico.
So they traveled a lot, and Jose joined his parents picking cucumbers and strawberries. And he missed part of school when they returned to Mexico each winter. Jose didn't learn English until he was 12 years old. But you know what, Jose was good at math and he liked math. And the nice thing is that math was the same in every school, and it's the same in Spanish as it is in English.
So Jose studied, and he studied hard. And one day, he's standing in the fields, collecting sugar beets, and he heard on a transistor radio that a man named Franklin Chang-Diaz -- a man with a surname like his -- was going to be an astronaut for NASA. So Jose decided -- right there in the field, he decided -- well, I could be an astronaut, too.
So Jose kept on studying, and he graduated high school. And he kept on studying, and he earned an engineering degree. And he kept on studying, and he earned a graduate degree. And he kept on working hard, and he ended up at a national laboratory, helping to develop a new kind of digital medical imaging system.
And a few years later, he found himself more than 100 miles above the surface of the Earth, staring out of the window of the shuttle Discovery, and he was remembering the boy in the California fields with that crazy dream that in America everything is possible. (Applause.)
Think about that, El Paso. That's the American Dream right there. (Applause.) That's what we're fighting for. We are fighting for every boy and every girl like Jose with a dream and potential that's just waiting to be tapped. We are fighting to unlock that promise, and all that holds not just for their futures, but for America's future. That's why we're going to get this done. And that's why I'm going to need your help.
Thank you. God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America. (Applause.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (65%); GRANDPARENTS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); EL PASO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



334 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: President Obama at the Border: A strong vow to move forward on immigration reform, but no plan

 BODY:
President Obama went to the border in El Paso on Tuesday and delivered a speech on immigration reform. He didn't present a bill or issue any executive orders or set deadlines for action. Aides say his goal was to ''create a pathway'' and ''a sense of urgency'' to ''move forward.'' That is a start but not nearly enough.
The speech was right on its merits. The immigration system is a shambles. Millions live here outside the law. Visa policies are too restrictive, cruelly separating families and driving away talented university graduates to other countries. As Mr. Obama dryly noted, ''We train them to create jobs for our competition.'' 
He said our current laws stifle opportunity for exactly the people for whom this economy needs to recover: entrepreneurs, students and low-wage workers. Illegality feeds ''a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap source of labor,'' Mr. Obama said. This isn't fair to American workers, or to the undocumented -- ''the overwhelming majority'' of whom, he said, ''are just trying to earn a living and provide for their families.''
Mr. Obama was also right when he said that the country has heard ''a lot of blame and a lot of politics and a lot of ugly rhetoric around immigration.'' After listing the many ways his administration has ''gone above and beyond'' what Republicans had demanded as their price for reform -- flooding the border with troops and technology to seal it tighter than ever -- he noted that the Republicans were still not satisfied. ''Maybe they'll need a moat,'' he joked. ''Maybe they'll want alligators in the moat.''
Mr. Obama's description of the problem was accurate, and his prescription the right one: a ''good-faith effort'' by both parties to pass comprehensive measures that combine border security with assimilation, not mass expulsion, for illegal immigrants who qualify.
To move things forward, Mr. Obama will have to do a lot more. He needs to outline legislation, push Congressional leaders -- including those in his own party -- to back it and make the case repeatedly to Americans.
The president also needs to get his own policies in order. For all his talk of supporting the hopes of the undocumented, his administration has been doubling down on the failed strategy of mass expulsion. It is pressing state and local police to join in an ill-conceived program called Secure Communities, which sends arrested people's fingerprints through federal immigration databases, turning all local officers and jails into arms of the Department of Homeland Security.
Many lawmakers and police agencies say it erodes public safety by making immigrants, especially victims of domestic violence, afraid to report crimes. They worry about giving rogue officers a convenient tool for racial profiling. And they feel betrayed because what the administration once billed as a transparent, voluntary program aimed only at dangerous convicted criminals turns out to be none of those things. The Homeland Security Department's own data show that more than half of those deported under the program have no criminal records or committed only minor crimes.
Mr. Obama and the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, should heed the growing calls by lawmakers in California, Illinois, New York and other places to abandon Secure Communities to preserve public safety.
As for the broader issue of immigration reform, Mr. Obama's aides insisted on Tuesday that he did, indeed, have a plan that interested Americans could read on the White House Web site. If Mr. Obama is really committed to this issue it's going to take a lot more than that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); POLICE FORCES (83%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011



335 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Prepaid Cards Subject Jobless to Host of Fees

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Some banks are charging a variety of fees to people who receive their jobless benefits on prepaid debit cards. 

 BODY:
When you're getting unemployment benefits, you by definition don't have a lot of cash to spare. So it seems especially unfair that people who receive their jobless benefits on prepaid debit cards are subject to a variety of fees they can ill afford to pay.
A report out this week from the National Consumer Law Center lays out a host of ways in which banks nibble away at jobless benefits with fees the center called "junk." The prepaid cards are most often used by jobless recipients who don't have checking accounts, and so are ineligible for direct deposit. Practices vary from state to state because jobless benefits are distributed at the state level, and state governments negotiate the terms of agreements with card providers. In many states, charges apply for using A.T.M.'s, even if they're in network; checking balances; and even for not using the card enough (inactivity fees, as high as $3).
The report is especially critical of a card issued in five states by U.S. Bank, which charges overdraft fees of $10 to $20 if recipients use more than the amount on their cards. Charging an overdraft fee to someone who doesn't even have a bank account struck me as particularly ingenious - what are they overdrawing, exactly? 
U.S. Bank is able to do this, the report explains, because jobless benefits are typically paid into pooled accounts that then have subaccounts designated for individual recipients. In most states, if a recipient uses the card to make a purchase that exceeds his or her benefits, the transaction is simply denied. But in five states - Arkansas, Idaho, Nebraska, Ohio and Oregon - U.S. Bank lets the transaction go through, and then deducts the amount, plus the overdraft fee, from the recipient's next benefits check. (The bank issues cards without overdraft fees in several other states.) Those fees can make a big dent, considering that the typical weekly unemployment check is just $294. 
Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for U.S. Bank, said in an e-mail that overdraft protection is an option that states can choose to add to their prepaid card programs. But even when it is offered, cardholders must opt in to overdraft coverage. "The terms are clearly disclosed so cardholders are aware of the fee should they need to use it," she said. 
Other banks don't charge such hefty fees, but some do charge "denial" fees, ranging from 25 cents to $1.50, when an attempted A.T.M. or retail transaction fails for lack of funds. Some even charge for live customer service calls or withdrawing funds using a human teller.
The practice occurs despite a directive from the Department of Labor stating that deducting "overdraft, overdraft fee, or denial fee" from future unemployment payments is "inconsistent" with federal law.
The "best" cards, offering free in-network A.T.M. withdrawals, at least two free out-of-network withdrawals, no balance inquiry fees and no inactivity fees, are offered in New York and New Jersey by Bank of America, the report found.
The worst for junk fees, in addition to the U.S. Bank version with overdraft fees, is the Tennessee card issued by JPMorgan Chase. It is one of only two states that fail to offer any free A.T.M. withdrawals. 
The report recommends that smaller states band together for more clout when negotiating card terms with banks. And it urges the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to take up the cause of excessive fees on prepaid cards when it opens for business this summer. "We hope prepaid cards are high on the agenda," said Lauren Saunders, managing attorney at the Consumer Law Center in Washington, and the primary author of the report.
Have you received jobless benefits on a prepaid card? What has your experience been?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREPAID CARDS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Unemployment; US Bancorp

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONSUMER LAW CENTER (57%) US Bancorp

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



336 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A Bird's Convoluted Conservation Odyssey

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The greater sage grouse's odyssey illustrates the difficulty of protecting species, particularly when protection could threaten powerful economic interests. 

 BODY:
The story of the greater sage grouse offers a wonderful window on the reality of conservation politics in the American West. Its quest for protection under the Endangered Species Act has been subject to politically tinged science and a logjam that the Fish and Wildlife Service finally hopes to break under an agreement that I wrote about on Wednesday in The Times.
If you were pitching the story to a Hollywood studio, you might describe the saga as "Dirty Dancing" meets "Shane."
The photo above explains the "Dirty Dancing" part:one of the grouse's signature behaviors is the all-male challenge dance that precedes mating. Then the males ruffle their chest feathers into a magnificent billow and strut their stuff. (See the YouTube link below.)
The "Shane" reference invokes the cardboard villains in the 1953 classic: cattlemen intent on usurping the western landscape. That may also be a bit overblown, given that many of the real-life ranchers who have shared sagebrush territory with the grouse for generations know and care more about it than many environmentalists do. Yet like the homesteaders in "Shane," the greater sage grouse is trying to survive in a landscape that is gradually being taken over by muscular outsiders.
And who stands in for Shane himself, the former gunslinger played by Alan Ladd who defends the homesteaders? 
The Fish and Wildlife Service, a federal agency whose firearm is the Endangered Species Act, the landmark conservation law passed in 1973 and intended to keep species from becoming extinct.
But here's another flaw: While Shane was reluctant to use his gun, he did so when he had to -- whereas until last year, the Fish and Wildlife Service did all it could to avoid putting the greater sage grouse under the protections of the law.
Calls for protecting the grouse date back at least to 1916, when William T. Hornaday of the New York Zoological Society issued a pamphlet titled "Save the Sage Grouse from Extinction: A Demand from Civilization to the Western States."
Mr. Hornaday was decrying hunting, but that was not the only problem. Since the time of Columbus, the range of the grouse, from eastern Oregon to the Dakotas and then southward to southern Utah, has been reduced by at least 50 percent, scientists reported in a recent monograph. Its population dropped by an average of 2 percent annually from 1965 to 2003.
Mark Salvo, director of the conservation group known as the Sagebrush Sea, said in an interview that the population of the greater sage grouse is estimated at 140,000 to 250,000 -- no more than one-tenth of the historic numbers. But protecting the bird and its sagebrush habitat could affect powerful economic interests. 
The human activity that intersected most with the bird was ranching, but in the grouse-heavy western Wyoming, expanding natural-gas fields also pockmarked the sagebrush landscapes. Then there were the roads, fences, power lines and wind turbines cutting through grouse territory.
It is not just direct human activity that eats away at the sagebrush habitat on which the birds depend, one of the most imperiled ecosystems in North America. Increasing numbers of wildfires have sped the spread of nonnative grasses, particularly the highly flammable cheatgrass. 
Giving the grouse endangered-species protection could restrict both ranching and energy development. When in the early 2000s, Fish and Wildlife biologists responded to listing petitions by reviewing the science about the grouse, their work was edited by Julie A. MacDonald, who was trained as an engineer and was serving as deputy assistant secretary for fish, wildlife and parks under the Bush administration.
She dismissed some scientific studies as opinion and declared that the grouse did not necessarily depend on sagebrush. Around the same time, western governors were lobbying against listing the birds, saying that voluntary efforts would be sufficient to protect them.
In 2005 the service declared that protecting the sage grouse under the Endangered Species Act was not warranted -- a finding that was later overturned by a federal judge who said that the process had been tainted by internal pressure and intimidation.
It was not until 2010 that the service declared that with "numerous relatively small populations existing in a patchy mosaic of increasingly fragmented habitat, the sage grouse should be protected. Voluntary conservation efforts are worthy, it said in a 106-page Federal Register notice, but not sufficient.
Even so, it did not actually draw its legal weapon in the bird's defense; the grouse therefore joined a waiting list of more than 250 species whose needs were trumped by other priorities.
This waiting list is now to be eliminated over the next six years, assuming that a federal judge accepts a legal settlement between the Department of Interior and the group WildEarth Guardians.
That's not how Shane would have handled it. Which may be why Hollywood passes on scripts like this.

        
On Our Radar: Negotiations on Wolf Protections Fail
        
Of Mussels, Repo Men and the Law
        
A Debate Over Endangered Species
        
Oil Equipment Foes Stand Down, for Now
        
Idaho Approves Giant Refinery Shipments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (93%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); BIRDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEN (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ZOOLOGY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (59%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (59%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (59%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%) Cheatgrass; Dirty Dancing; Endangered Species Act; Federal Register; Fish and Wildlife Service; greater sage grouse; Idaho; Interior Department; Julie MacDonald; lek; Montana; natural gas exploration; Nevada; North Dakota; Oregon; Sagebrush; Shane; South Dakota; Utah; wildfires; Bush, George W; MacDonald, Julie A; Birds; Decisions and Verdicts; Endangered and Extinct Species; Environment; Lobbying and Lobbyists; North America; Western States (US); Wyoming; biodiversity; endangered species; Living; Politics and Policy; public lands

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (58%) Fish and Wildlife Service

PERSON: Bush, George W; MacDonald, Julie A

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) North America; Oregon; Utah; Western States (US); Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



337 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: A Tool to Weigh Debt Payment Options

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Debt Coach is a new online tool that creates customized options to help you pay off credit card debt. 

 BODY:
A new tool from can pull your actual credit card balances from the credit bureau Experian to analyze your debt. It then provides detailed options for getting rid of it, customized to your situation.
The tool, called Debt Coach, also offers what Bills.com says is previously unavailable information on so-called "concession" or "settlement" rates that credit card companies typically offer, should you decide to enter into a formal agreement to pay off your balances.
Brad Stroh, founder and chief executive of Bills.com, said the tool gives more information to consumers evaluating various debt payment options. "We did a ton of work on the data aggregation," Mr. Stroh said in a telephone interview. "We're the only one with this type of tool." The tool debuted on Wednesday at the Finovate conference in San Francisco, a semiannual gathering of providers of online financial tools.
Here's how it works. 
Users enter information on their financial situation by answering questions about whether they own a home, what they think their credit score is and their ZIP code. They then rank their desired outcome: Is preserving their credit score the most important to them? Do they want low monthly payments, or do they want to get rid of the debt as quickly as possible? Are they willing to put up with some stress and uncertainty, or do they want a clear outcome?
Next, users enter their name and date of birth so the tool can download their credit card data from Experian. (They don't have to enter their Social Security number.) Experian first verifies their identity by asking questions drawn from information in their credit report. The system is similar to the process that Experian and the other major credit bureaus use to verify the identities of consumers seeking online access to their credit report, and may include questions related to previous addresses or lenders. No account numbers are transferred to Debt Coach, Mr. Stroh said.
Although users are accessing information from their credit report, it's considered a "soft" pull of information, rather than a full credit inquiry initiated as a part of a credit application, and so does not affect the user's credit score, Mr. Stroh said. The inquiry is free to consumers. Debt Coach pays a fee to Experian for the information, he said. The information transferred doesn't include the user's credit score because that information is more expensive to gather and Debt Coach would probably have to charge users a fee to provide it, Mr. Stroh said.
After the information is transferred, the tool lists the user's credit card balances and the current interest rate being paid, along with the "concession" rate available if the user chooses various options. The user can see, for example, that he's paying 25 percent on a Best Buy store card, but can reduce that to 9 percent by going to an approved credit counseling program. Similarly, a 14.35 percent rate on a Chase card could go down to 6 percent. (The tool focuses on unsecured debt, not secured debt like a mortgage or car loan, because there generally isn't a concession rate available for those types of loans.)
The tool then lists, side by side, five options available to users, including maintaining their current payment schedule; setting up a self-payment schedule with, say, a "snowball" strategy, in which minimum payments are met and any extra funds are applied to the highest rate debt; credit counseling; debt settlement; or using cash from a refinancing of their home, if they own one.
The tool outlines the pros and cons of each option and highlights the one that best fits the customer's stated preferences and goals. Using debt settlement, for example, in which a firm often charges a fee to negotiate a reduction in your debt, can end up being a lower-cost option, but it's riskier and more stressful. Your credit score will probably take a big hit, and lenders can continue making collection calls throughout the negotiations and may even start legal action. Unless a user's stated preference leads to debt settlement as the best solution, Debt Coach offers a warning stating that it is a "nontraditional form of debt consolidation, and should only be used by consumers with severe financial hardship."
Seeking credit counseling may not reduce your debt as much, but collection efforts cease once a plan is agreed upon, so it's less stressful.
The tool offers referrals to firms it considers reputable. If a consumer seeks a consultation with one of them, Bills.com collects a referral fee (as it does with other types of referrals elsewhere on the site, like those to mortgage lenders). The company estimates, for instance, that fees from debt settlement firms represent less than 7 percent of its revenue. But, Mr. Stroh said in a follow-up e-mail, "there is no 'bias' toward any one tool or solution in Debt Coach." 
If you're worried about managing your credit card debt, does this sound like a tool you would try? If you use Debt Coach, please let us know about your experience.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Credit and Debt; Personal Finances; Experian Group Ltd; Bills.com

ORGANIZATION: Experian Group Ltd

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



338 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: A Report Card on Transportation Spending

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: New York State does well in tracking the on-time performance of different transit options and greenhouse gas emissions, a study finds, but it lags in measuring the availability of options for seniors and the disabled. 

 BODY:
A study that examined how states account for billions of dollars spent annually on transportation found that most are not tracking how their investments are performing in six important areas, among them mitigating the effects of transportation on the environment.
"Measuring Transportation Investments: The Road to Results," released on Wednesday by the Pew Center on the States and the Rockefeller Foundation, evaluated whether states were setting goals and collecting data to better understand what they are getting for the money spent on roads, highways, bridges and bus and rail systems.
The researchers reviewed performance, planning and budget documents to see how the states were keeping track of what worked and what didn't in areas considered vital to economic growth and quality of life. Among those areas were road safety, employers' connections to their workers, and environmental stewardship.
Thirteen states -California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Washington - were found to be "leading the way" by adopting goals and performance measures to help them prioritize and spend more wisely on transportation.The District of Columbia and 18 states, including New York and New Jersey, got a mixed report card, and 19 states were found to be trailing behind.
New York did well in tracking the on-time performance of different transit options and the greenhouse gas emissions from transportation sources, the study found. But the state lagged in measuring access to transportation, like the availability of options for the elderly and the disabled.
By contrast, New Jersey did well in tracking the use of transit options by disabled riders, the study said, but lacked measures for the impact on the environment.
"All states have room to improve," Robert Zahradnik, director of research at the Pew Center on the States, said at a press briefing.
The researchers noted that keeping track is more critical than ever at a time when states are dealing with budget shortfalls and some members of Congress are proposing that federal financing for states' transportation systems be more closely tied to performance. Transportation spending was $131 billion in fiscal year 2010.
"In today's economy, every tax dollar spent on transportation should generate the best results to advance the states' economic interest," Mr. Zahradnik said.
Here's a video in which Mr. Zahradnik discusses some of the report's high points:
An earlier version of this post misspelled the surname of the director of research at the Pew Center on the States. He is Robert Zahradnik, not Zahradnick.

        
Report Outlines Best Practices for Connecting Renewables to the Grid
        
Study Cites Strong Green Job Growth
        
Marketing Solar Panels to Fifth-Graders
        
Northeast States Hold Second Carbon Auction
        
Allowing Commuters to Offset Their Emissions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); BEST PRACTICES (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); AGING (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) fossil fuel emissions; New Jersey; new york; Pew Center on the States; public spending; Rockefeller Foundation; state budgets; Transportation; States (US); Transit Systems; New York State; Living; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: Pew Center on the States

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



339 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
BBC: After the wedding, an explosion of interest in English wines. -- Eric Asimov
The New York Post: Have cocktails officially become ridiculous?- Jeff Gordinier
The Washington Post: Here's a rundown of the Post's Future of Food conference. -- Nick Fox
The Economist: Coming to a pizza near you ... the next anchovy. Peru is now monitoring its heavily overfished schools of anchovetas in a quota system. Formerly caught and ground into fish meal, now increasingly they'll be filleted and exported for use by humans, especially pizzaioli -- Glenn Collins
The Wall Street Journal: How to cook a whole steer. -- Nick Fox
: Fear not the nitrites, or the nitrates. -- Eric Asimov 
Bordeaux Undiscovered: What's the must-have motive power in the most thoroughly up-to-date 21st-century vineyards? Horse power. -- Eric Asimov
Edible Manhattan:Three roosters in the henhouse: a barnyard drama (with recipes). -- Eric Asimov
The Feast: Attention, party people: Hubert Keller shows off his D.J. skills. -- Jeff Gordinier
LA Weekly: A California hot dog duel. Bacon is involved. -- Jeff Gordinier
Poetry Foundation: "Loaf after loaf, in several sizes, / and never does it not look fresh," Alfred Corn writes in this poem about a very strange, and yet strangely familiar, type of bread. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Italian Pantry: O.K., maybe chicken scarpariello isn't so authentically Italian. But what if it happens to be delicious? -- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POETRY (70%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



340 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: The Lowdown | A. L. Steiner

BYLINE: IO TILLETT WRIGHT


HIGHLIGHT: The artist on being a cultural worker in a late-capitalist economy. 

 BODY:
A. L. Steiner is as well known for her thought-provoking and politically charged work as she is for her witty art world mischief. Sharp of tongue and nimble of mind, Steiner often touches on feminist, sometimes lesbian themes, and she is never afraid to court controversy. Steiner's critically acclaimed installation at last summer's Greater New York show at MoMA P.S.1 featured a vast collage of images of naked women, nature and beaten body parts, in a somehow celebratory homage to queer culture. She recently completed a film - she likes to call it a "sociosexual" video, but the more usual term is "porno" - in collaboration with the artist A. K. Burns. Titled "Community Action Center," the film explores queer sexuality and runs an almost impossibly hilarious 69 minutes.
Q.Where have you been recently?
A.In the ridiculous world we seem to live in.
What are you working on right now?
Hustling as a cultural worker in a late-capitalist economy. You might catch some of those manifestations in a Jack Smith "situation" in May at Gladstone Gallery, Working Artists and the Greater Economy (W.A.G.E.) at U.S.C.'s "Work After Work" panel on May Day, Taxter & Spengemann in June and the upcoming publication of Readykeulous, which will explain almost everything you need to know about Planet Money.
Seen anything amazing lately, of anybody else?
Kara Walker & Yoko Ono in conversation at MoMA, My Barbarian at the Kitchen, Mark Morrisroe at Artists Space, Emily Roysdon at Art in General, Reflecting Abstraction at Vogt Gallery, Yvonne Rainer at BAC, Dee Rees's film "Pariah," Jose Rodriguez-Soltera's Lupe and Ron Rice's Chumlum at the Museum of the Moving Image, Rebecca Brooks's Veil of Veronica at Veronica People's Club, Lynn Hershman Leeson's film "Women, Art, Revolution" ... O.K.. I'll stop there.
Where are you headed? What's next on the agenda?
A. K. Burns and I are heading across the pond in June for our Celesbian Mini-Euro Tour to present "Community Action Center" at the Tate Modern in London, Kampnagel in Hamburg, GLU in Amsterdam, Tallinn Art Hall in Estonia, Konsthall C in Stockholm and the Center for Sexual Dissidence in Brighton ... apocalypse or bust!

        
Look of the Moment | Alexis Bledel
        
Artifacts | The Women of '!W.A.R.'
        
Just Looking | 'Aware: Art Fashion Identity'
        
Now Reading | 'Designers Against AIDS: The First Decade'
        
Yoko, Before 'Oh Yoko!' (and Other Origin Stories)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); FILM HISTORY (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%) A.L. Steiner; Kara Walker; MOMA; yoko ono; Culture

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ESTONIA (91%); NETHERLANDS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



341 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Aiming to Cut $3.5 Billion in Costs

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: One of the biggest European banks, HSBC said it would focus on commercial banking activities and wealth management, while scaling back its retail banking operations. 

 BODY:
10:51 a.m. | Updated 
HSBC said on Wednesday that it planned to cut jobs, scale back its retail banking operations and possibly sell its bank card business in the United States as part of a strategy to reduce costs by as much as $3.5 billion in the next two to three years.
The bank said it would focus on commercial banking and wealth management, while selling or shutting down some less profitable retail banking operations. HSBC, one of the biggest European banks, said the steps were expected to help it improve returns despite slower economic growth and a stricter regulatory environment.
"This is not about shrinking the business but about creating capacity to reinvest in growth markets and to provide a buffer against regulatory and inflationary headwinds," said Stuart Gulliver, who took over as chief executive in January. He added that it was too early to say how many jobs would be cut.
Banks are seeking to streamline their business as new financial regulations require them to maintain higher capital reserves, putting pressure on profitability. The Barclays chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., said in February that he would review businesses and close some that did not generate enough return. 
Less than a month after taking over as chief executive, Mr. Gulliver held a two-day meeting with his management team at HSBC's Hong Kong offices to discuss necessary changes. They agreed that HSBC's branches failed to focus enough on the special demands of local markets and clients.
"We always tried to do everything, everywhere, always, and I'm not going to do that," said Mr. Gulliver, who previously ran HSBC's investment banking operation.
Having already decided to withdraw from Russia's retail banking market, HSBC said it would test all of its operations and businesses for profitability. The bank also set a target of 48 percent to 52 percent for its cost efficiency ratio. Costs as a proportion of income were 55 percent last year, which the bank said was "unacceptable."
Mr. Gulliver also said he planned to radically change HSBC's business in the United States, which had been a drag on earnings ever since the subprime mortgage crisis dealt a blow to Household, the American lender HSBC acquired in 2003. HSBC is considering the sale of its American consumer bank card operation and plans to expand its private banking business to Latin America. It also hopes its commercial banking unit will benefit as America's export industry rebuilds, Mr. Gulliver said.
"We need to get to a situation where the U.S. doesn't lose us a colossal amount of money," Mr. Gulliver said. The business was a "significant financial cost to HSBC and a management distraction."
Despite large losses in the United States, HSBC weathered the financial crisis better than many of its rivals, mainly because it generated about half of its earnings from Asia and had strong deposit inflows on the commercial banking side. HSBC did not have to ask for financial help from the British government. 
But this year the bank's share price started to lag behind that of Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase and Barclays as some investors expressed concerns about rising costs and the pace of growth. The strategy HSBC announced on Wednesday failed to spark enthusiasm among some analysts and the bank's share price was down 1 percent in London. 
"We would have loved to see a little bit more" change, said Pawel Uszko, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. "The main thing they said was cost-cutting and that will take two to three years to get there."10:51 a.m. | Updated 

        
Europe's Investment Banker Hegemony
        
Mortgage Investor Sues 15 Banks Over Subprime

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); RETAIL BANKING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRIVATE BANKING (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) Barclays; Deutsche Bank; HSBC; JPMorgan Chase &; Robert E. Diamond Jr.; Stuart Gulliver; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Gulliver, Stuart; Barclays PLC; Deutsche Bank AG; HSBC Holdings PLC; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC|HBC|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC; Deutsche Bank AG; HSBC Holdings PLC; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: Diamond, Robert E Jr; Gulliver, Stuart

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



342 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: From the Cloud, Google Pulls Down an Energy Saver

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: A tool under development with Ford would learn a particular driver's habits, which could be used to improve fuel economy and optimize power delivery. 

 BODY:
Engineers have long been trying to adapt the automobile to drivers' preferences. In partnership with Google, Ford is hoping to create cars that could receive data in real time and predict driver behavior and probable destinations. Such information could then be applied to improve fuel economy and reduce emissions.
The tool is called Google Prediction API, and in optimized form, it can help enable a Ford of the future to ask questions of the car's drivers based on routes regularly traveled, time of day and current location. Picture a voice inquiring, "Good morning, are you going to work?" If you reply in the affirmative, it may then say, "Your vehicle performance has been optimized for your trip."
The system as currently imagined would interact best with a plug-in hybrid like the prototype Ford Escape that Ryan McGee, a Ford technical expert, said his team was developing. Early research is being shown off at the Google I/O conference in San Francisco this week.
According to Mr. McGee, one application would have the car owner define a "personal zone," like a neighborhood or school, and the car would automatically switch to all-electric operation when crossing into that area.
The API would also evaluate the overall trip to manage onboard energy and to ensure sufficient battery power was there when needed. It would also store the different habits of, say, a lead-footed driver and a more economical one, adding those wild cards into its analysis.
A service that automatically switched to electric power could soon become quite practical for Europe, where some cities have established low-emission zones. A plan proposed for eight large French cities, for instance, would impose fines on older passenger cars entering designated zones.
The collected data would be stored on servers and accessed on the move, reducing the need for advanced computer power on the car itself.
"With Ford, we can move computational power out of the car and store it in the cloud," Travis Green, a Google product manager for Prediction API, said. "Think of it this way: The biggest, most advanced computer could optimize everything, but your car doesn't have the power or the space for it. With the cloud, your car has access to huge amounts of data, including traffic and weather information."
Ford has been working on predictive driver behavior for two years. Its collaboration with Google started late last year, and is still in a research phase. The work could lead to a production-ready system in four to eight years, Mr. McGee said.

        
288,000 Honda CR-Vs Under Investigation for Headlight Failure
        
At New York Auto Show, Telematics Are No Longer a Sideshow
        
Onto Each Hybrid Some Rain Must Fall
        
Ford Says There's Wealth in Weeds
        
Wheelies: The Profit and Loss Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRIVER BEHAVIOR (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (85%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); LEAD (77%); WEATHER (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); CLOUD COMPUTING (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) Escape; Ford; Google; telematics; Automobiles; Cloud Computing; Ford Motor Company; Google Inc; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Electric Vehicles; Technology

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Company; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



343 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Is the iPad Just a New Way to Give Away Magazines?

BYLINE: DAVID CARR


HIGHLIGHT: American publishers have always given away their work in hopes of building up huge audiences that they can sell advertising against. Are they making a mistake in replicating that model on the iPad and other tablets? 

 BODY:
In the last few days, there have been a flurry of deals that suggest that a level of detente between Apple and the Big Three Manhattan publishers (Conde Nast, Time Inc. and Hearst) has finally been reached. For veteran industry watchers, the announcement that Conde had finally agreed to release an iPad version of The New Yorker seemed like the signing of the Salt treaty.
The question is what publishers may be giving up to attract new consumers.
Certainly for readers, the future of digital magazines is going to come cheap. For $69.99, new subscribers to The New Yorker can get not only get the digital version of the weekly on the iPad and the Web, but a print copy in their mailbox as well.
As David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker pointed out, for about $1.40, a reader can get a copy of The New Yorker that is jammed with enterprise reporting, silky analytical pieces, and august critical voices, not to mention some pretty good cartoons.
It seems like the publisher is giving the magazine away and it practically is, but it's less of a collapse to the bold new economics of the Web, where everything is supposed to be free or close to it, and more of a back-to-the-future moment.
American publishers have always priced magazines far below cost in hopes of building up huge audiences that they can sell advertising against. But given that digital circulation has a much lower cost structure, publisher could pivot and try to make more money off the consumers themselves.
There are strong early indications, the Conde Nast deal being the most recent, that will not be the case. Remember, this is the company that shuttered at least two magazines, Gourmet and Domino, that were beloved by readers who may have been willing to pay more than the pennies the company was charging.
Chip Block, a now retired publishing executive who has consulted all over the industry, worries that publishers are replicating a print model that is short on revenue from consumers and leaves the industry once again reliant on the whims of advertisers. He suggested in a note to Decoder that digital platforms like the iPad offer publishers the opportunity to grow a direct (and maybe lucrative) relationship with the consumer, one that advertisers will benefit from, but not define."Publishers will make another mistake if they focus on advertiser rather than consumer economics for digital editions. The first priority for publishers should be to create an excellent consumer experience. If they do that with viable economics, the advertisers will follow.
Publishers lost track of that idea years ago when they embarked on a mad scramble for ad revenue at the expense of both product and circulation economics. I asked this question years ago: who put the popcorn salesmen in charge of strategy? It may be that movie theaters can make more money from popcorn than revenue from admissions, but that does not mean that the popcorn salesmen know what makes a movie attractive or anything else about the economics of production and promotion.
Publishers have consistently blundered since the 1990s by trying to fit new tech into the comfortable box of economics they have lived in for so long. Will they continue to do so? Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos have thrown publishers a lifeline. Will they be smart enough to grab it?"As the chief purveyor of the $.99 song, Apple, of course, is always in favor of cheap, simple pricing, so they've been encouraging publishers to get low in their initial offers. In an interview Monday at Conde Nast about The New Yorker offer, Eddy Cue, Apple's vice president of Internet services, suggested that "publishers can make it up on volume."
Of course, there is volume and then there is volume. Apple has sold some 10 billion songs on iTunes. Publishers confront much, much smaller numbers trying to sell professional produced content to a specialized audience.
The new offer at The New Yorker is going to be huge, perhaps doubling its circulation of 1 million over time as digital adopters and bargain shoppers finally grab their own copy rather than cadging it from friends. But the rich advertising opportunity that will produce may be a less durable and less stable business than grinding out highly profitable circulation over the long haul.

        
David Carey Leaving Conde Nast to Run Hearst Magazines
        
Lucky Hires People StyleWatch Publisher
        
Magazines' Newsstand Sales Fall 9.1 Percent
        
Conde Nast and Time Inc. Cheer iPad; Others Have Doubts
        
Another Top Time Inc. Executive Departs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (93%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (75%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (70%) Apple iPad; Conde Nast Publications Inc; David Remnick; Hearst Magazines; Time Inc; Nast, Conde; Magazines; New Yorker; Manhattan (NYC); New Media; publishing

COMPANY: TIME INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: New Yorker

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

PERSON: Nast, Conde

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



344 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Outlines Share Sale Plan

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: The American International Group and the Treasury Department will sell roughly 300 million shares, in the insurer's latest step toward regaining its independence from the government. 

 BODY:
The American International Group on Wednesday laid out plans for its upcoming share offering as it moved to get off government life support. 
In a regulatory filing on Wednesday, A.I.G. said it would sell 100 million shares. The government, which has a 92 percent stake in the insurer, will sell 200 million shares. After the offering, United States taxpayers will have a 77 percent stake in the company, according to the filing. 
The filing did not disclose a specific price for the offering but based on the closing price of shares on Tuesday, it would amount to about $8.9 billion, much less than once anticipated. If demand is strong enough, underwriters will have the option to sell an additional 45 million shares. 
A.I.G., which will not receive any money from the shares sold by the government, plans to use $550 million of its own proceed to help pay for a settlement related to several securities fraud lawsuits. The settlement was previously disclosed. The rest of the money will go toward "general corporate purposes."
The last few months have been tough for A.I.G. On May 5, it reported that net income fell 85 percent in the first quarter, driven by charges related to the earthquake disaster in Japan and a restructuring of its government bailout. Revenue dropped 6 percent, to $17.4 billion.
Earlier this year, A.I.G. shares had surged to more than $62 but today they are trading for less than $30, the level at which the government is expected to break even on its bailout.
Even so, the offering is a big step for the company, which is looking regain its independence. 
During the financial crisis, A.I.G. teetered on the verge of collapse before the government orchestrated a huge bailout. The rescue package eventually left taxpayers with a 92 percent stake in the company.
The share sale represents the latest step by A.I.G. to repay taxpayers. In January, the company paid off its debt to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. It has also sold off various assets to raise capital as part of its plan.
The Treasury Departmenthad indicated earlier that it would like to hold two stock sales this year, potentially bringing its stake in A.I.G. down to about 33 percent. But much will depend on market conditions and demand.
A.I.G.'s annual meeting is to take place on Wednesday.
Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank Securities, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase are the main underwriters for the A.I.G. offering.

        
A.I.G. Offers to Buy Back Securities for $15.7 Billion
        
A.I.G. Repays $6.9 Billion of Government Bailout

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LITIGATION (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (53%) A.I.G.; American International Group; Treasury Department; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Treasury Department

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



345 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors' Hardball Tactics Produce Big Results in Galleon Case

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: The conviction of Raj Rajaratnam vindicates the aggressive prosecutorial tactics used in his insider trading case, but whether it will produce any meaningful change is unclear. 

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. | Updated 
Will the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the hedge fund firm Galleon Group, change anything on Wall Street?
Federal prosecutors hailed Wednesday's verdict as a powerful deterrent to investors trying to gain an unlawful advantage in the stock market.
"We will continue to pursue and prosecute those who believe they are both above the law and too smart to get caught," Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement after the verdict in the Rajaratnam case.
Mr. Bharara's office, which has led the Justice Department's pursuit of insider trading, has charged 47 individuals with insider trading crimes over the last 18 months and secured 36 convictions.
While some question whether the aggressive pursuit of insider trading has distracted the government from investigating senior executives at the center of the financial crisis, the success in the Galleon case vindicates the tough prosecutorial tactics and vast resources deployed in this area. For the first time in a securities case, the government used wiretaps - a tool traditionally used with drug traffickers and organized crime figures - to record traders' telephone conversations.
Prosecutors have readily employed hardball investigatory methods. Late last year, agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted simultaneous raids of three large hedge funds, sending shock waves across Wall Street. Two of those funds have since closed.
Federal authorities have pressured traders and analysts to record their calls in order to build their cases. Last October, F.B.I. agents appeared unannounced at the Portland, Ore., home of an analyst and asked him to tape his calls with a hedge fund client.
The analyst, John Kinnucan, refused to work with the government and e-mailed his trading clients that he had "declined the young gentleman's gracious offer to wear a wire and thus ensnare you in their devious web."
As recently as January, the F.B.I. instructed a cooperating witness in the Galleon case to record a call with a former colleague to elicit incriminating evidence.
Government crackdowns on insider trading tend to run in cycles. The last one that received as much attention was the Wall Street sweep in the 1980s that resulted in the convictions of Ivan Boesky and Michael R. Milken. Those prosecutions came during that era's mergers-and-acquisitions boom, which was largely financed with the junk bonds popularized by Mr. Milken.
This time around, the insider trading scandals were born of the latest deal-making boom, which occurred during the middle of the last decade - a frenzied period in which some of America's largest companies fell into private hands.
It coincided with the explosive growth of hedge funds, once-secretive investment partnerships that have emerged as a powerful force in the global economy and have minted more than two dozen billionaires, according to Forbes magazine. Among them was Mr. Rajaratnam, who at the peak managed $7 billion of investors' money.
The insider trading investigation has spawned several arms of inquiry and has led to subpoenas of the world's largest financial institutions and arrests in a number of states. Mr. Rajaratnam's illegal stock tips came from all points of the globe. One witness testified that his chief source of confidential data about publicly traded technology companies came from a tipster in Taiwan. Another delivered secret information from Dublin about the investment activities of a Middle East sovereign wealth fund.
But some academics and Wall Street critics argue that prosecutors should have focused their efforts - and their resources - on ferreting out wrongdoing stemming from the financial crisis. The Justice Department has yet to bring criminal charges against any executive who ran a major financial services firm leading up to the disaster, which was caused by aggressive risk-taking and shoddy lending practices.
"The total amounts of money and the consequences in insider trading are trivial compared to the damage caused by the behavior that caused the financial crisis," said Charles Ferguson, an academic and filmmaker whose movie about the financial crisis, "Inside Job," won the 2011 Academy Award for best documentary.
"I'm not saying that insider trading isn't a serious crime, but the government should be deploying more resources to investigate those cases," Mr. Ferguson said.
Last week, Mr. Bharara filed a civil lawsuit against Deutsche Bank, accusing the firm of lying about the quality of mortgages it handled under a government program. At a news conference, he said there was not enough evidence to justify a criminal complaint.
Federal authorities have cited the loss of confidence in the stock market as a reason to pursue insider trading cases. In his closing argument in the Rajaratnam trial, Reed M. Brodsky, a prosecutor, stressed the point that such activities provided Wall Street professionals with an unfair advantage over the "average, ordinary investor."
"The stock market is designed to make sure the investing public isn't cheated," Mr. Brodsky said. "Wall Street is supposed to be an even playing field."
Whether the dozens of arrests and convictions will produce any meaningful change in the way professional investors trade stocks is unclear. Still, there has been a reaction as prosecutors' tough talk and use of wiretaps spawn a culture of fear on Wall Street.
Security firms report an increase in hedge funds hiring them to conduct electronic sweeps of their offices to check for listening devices. Once lightly regulated, hedge funds have also stepped up their compliance procedures and increased their budget for legal services to ferret out illicit trading. Investors are also demanding a higher level of oversight at the funds and are stepping up background checks on their managers.
"I probably get five or six requests every month seeking verification that we're the auditor for a given fund," said Alan Alzfan, a partner at the accounting firm McGladrey & Pullen. "I used to get five or six a year."
But for all the added scrutiny and negative publicity surrounding insider trading at hedge funds, investors - lured by the promise of outsize returns - continue to pour billions of dollars into them. Last month, the industry celebrated another milestone: the money under hedge fund control surpassed $2 trillion, a record.
A picture caption on Thursday with an article about the possible impact on Wall Street of the insider trading conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, a prominent hedge fund manager, misstated the activity shown. The photograph, from October 2009, showed Preet S. Bharara, the United States Attorney for Manhattan, at a news conference announcing the charges against Mr. Rajaratnam; he was not announcing the verdict in the case.

        
U.S. Attorney Sends a Message to Wall Street
        
Galleon Conviction Likely to Embolden Prosecutors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); INSIDER TRADING (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); VERDICTS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BONDS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); MERGERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); WITNESSES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SCANDALS (70%); WIRETAPPING (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) Charles Ferguson; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Galleon Group; Insider Trading; Preet Bharara; Raj Rajaratnam; U.S. Justice Department; Bharara, Preet; Rajaratnam, Raj; Decisions and Verdicts; Justice Department; Legal/Regulatory; The Galleon Trial; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%) Federal Bureau of Investigation; Galleon Group; Justice Department

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (91%) Bharara, Preet; Rajaratnam, Raj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%) OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



346 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let Go of the Anger

BYLINE: WILLIAM D. COHAN


HIGHLIGHT: If Wall Street is not going to be held more accountable, we need to know why. 

 BODY:
One of the most frustrating facts of the recently abated financial crisis is that those who might have been partly responsible for it have got off scot-free. The only two people prosecuted criminally - the Bear Stearns hedge fund managers Ralph Cioffi and Matthew Tannin - were found not guilty by a jury in Brooklyn. Other potential culprits - Angelo Mozilo, chief executive of Countrywide Financial, Joseph Cassano, chief executive of AIG Financial Products, and Dick Fuld, the chief executive of Lehman Brothers - were either slapped with a small civil penalty, in the case of Mozilo, or the Justice Department made the decision not to prosecute after months of investigation. 
What's worse, not only did bankers escape with no penalty, they walked off with millions of dollars in their pockets while American taxpayers got left holding the bag. Since the crisis was caused by greedy decisions made by one leader after another at various Wall Street firms and at other businesses, like mortgage originators and credit ratings agencies, that attached themselves to Wall Street like pilot fish on a shark, the dearth of prosecutions, or even attempted prosecutions, seems especially unconscionable. The least the Justice Department could do, in declining to prosecute, would be to make available the reams of documents on which it based its decisions, so that the American public can understand why prosecutors let these people walk. Without seeing what the prosecutors have seen, we are left with a sense of frustration and injustice.It has always been a mystery to me why the American people's reaction to this lack of accountability has been so consistently passive. Why is it that thousands will protest, for weeks, the efforts by the Republican governor of Wisconsin and his Republican allies in the state legislature to strip Wisconsin's public employees of hard-won benefits and contractual rights, but there is barely a peep uttered - save from a handful of Code Pink activists - in the face of trillions of dollars of American treasure used to bail out the very banks and securities firms that caused the Great Recession in the first place? Nor is there a whisper of collective protest when the very banks we bailed out turn around and pay their thousands of employees some $150 billion in compensation and bonuses in 2010 - as if they were deserving - while the rest of us continue to suffer from stubbornly high unemployment, miniscule interest rates on our savings and fast-rising commodity prices (as on oil and food) that Wall Street speculators, in part, drive higher and higher. 
Indeed, what we hear from the likes of Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Bob Diamond, the chief executive of Barclays PLC, is that the time has come to stop bashing the banks and their executives for their roles in causing the Great Recession. "Not all banks are the same and I just think that this constant refrain 'bankers, bankers, bankers' is just unproductive and unfair," Dimon told a panel at the World Economic Forum, in Davos, in January. "People should just stop doing that." At the same conference, the French president Nicolas Sarkozy lashed out at Dimon. "Don't be accusatory of us," Sarkozy told him in front of a group of hundreds. "The world has paid with tens of millions of unemployed, who were in no way to blame and who paid for everything." 
Sarkozy was right then, and he is still right: We must not let the passage of time dim our ire at those who have yet to be held responsible for causing this financial crisis. We must register our dissatisfaction - in the streets if need be - with a system that rewards the fat cats for their outrageous behavior at our collective expense and that re-established the status quo on Wall Street without a moment's reflection on whether the system itself needed an overhaul.
Now, it seems, some people are sufficiently fed up to "fight back," as they are saying. This Thursday, after a week of demonstrations, including at Goldman Sachs's new headquarters on West Street in Manhattan and at Bank of America's New York new headquarters on West 42nd Street, a group calling itself onmay12.org has organized a series of protests on and around Wall Street itself to "make big banks and millionaires pay." The group is a coalition of labor unions, community and progressive groups that were catalyzed by Mayor Michael Bloomberg's proposed city budget that cuts childcare services, teachers and public safety, among others, while continuing to give tax benefits to corporations that remain in the city. "We are connecting the dots from the big banks that crashed our economy, destroyed millions of jobs and foreclosed on millions of family homes to the human impact here in the financial capital of our country," said Michael Kink, the executive director of Strong Economy for All Coalition and one of the event's organizers. In an interview, he cited similar protests being organized in Chicago, Charlotte and Oakland, and cited specifically his outrage at how Oakland is forced to close its public libraries - in order to save $5 million a year - at the same time the city still pays Goldman Sachs $5 million a year for interest-rate swaps. He wonders, where is the shared sacrifice? "This is a national effort to hold banks accountable," he said.
Where such protests take us is never certain, of course. They might lead to an emboldened grass-roots effort to push politicians and regulators in Washington to insist on some measure of accountability for Wall Street executives, or they could just be more meaningless blips in the never-ending 24-hour news cycle. Either way, the protests are long overdue.
(This is my last regular Opinionator column after nearly 18 months. It has been an honor to be a small part of The Times's opinion family.)
An earlier version of this column incorrectly stated that Wall Street firms paid $150 billion in bonuses in 2010; the figure reflects both compensation and bonuses. 

        
Why Is Enough Never Enough?
        
The Reform That Wasn't
        
How Goldman Killed A.I.G.
        
A Week in Egypt's Twilight Zone
        
What's Good for G.M. Is Good For Homeowners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%); CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); GOVERNORS (50%) accountability; protests; Wall Street; Banking and Financial Institutions; Executive Compensation; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; William D. Cohan

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BARCLAYS PLC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (71%); JOE CASSANO (58%); RICHARD S FULD (56%); JAMES DIMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



347 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: General in Abu Ghraib Scandal Files to Run for Senate in Texas

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: Ricardo Sanchez, a Democrat who was the Army commander during the Abu Ghraib prison scandal, filed paperwork to run for the open Senate seat in Texas. 

 BODY:
A new 10-gallon hat is in the ring: Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, retired, officially began his bid for an open Senate seat in Texas on Wednesday by filing election paperwork in San Antonio. 
Democrats are, politely put, long shots in state-wide races in Texas, but Mr. Sanchez and his party no doubt hope that his military service and name recognition would help him against any Republican contender for the seat held by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican who announced in January that she would not seek a sixth term. 
The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee has identified Texas, which has experienced exponential growth in Hispanic residents over the last decade, as one of "Six in '12" states it is focusing on in next year's elections. (The other states are Arizona, Indiana, Maine, Massachusetts and Nevada.)
Mr. Sanchez, who retired from the Army in 2006, was the commander of United States forces in Iraq during the Abu Ghraib prison scandal, but insisted that he did not authorize the abuse of prisoners. He ended his command in 2004.
In a statement, Mr. Sachez said, in part: "I want to speak plainly about why I am running. Here in Texas, too many families are struggling to get ahead. Jobs are hard to find, our schools simply aren't good enough and increasing food and gas prices are breaking household budgets. We need to make sure small businesses that drive the economy can grow and prosper. 
"Unfortunately, Washington is mostly focused on scoring partisan points and winning elections. I believe Texas needs a strong, independent voice to address the enormous challenges we are facing -- leadership that focuses on results rather than politics. I've spent my entire career serving our country. I can think of no better way to continue my record of public service than to represent Texas in the Senate." 
He said he would make a formal announcement in a few weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); FAMILY (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) Hutchison, Kay Bailey; Sanchez, Ricardo S; United States Politics and Government; Senate; Abu Ghraib (Iraq); Texas; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (57%) Senate

PERSON: KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (88%) Hutchison, Kay Bailey; Sanchez, Ricardo S

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Abu Ghraib (Iraq); Texas

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



348 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Vatican Panel Calls For Climate Change Action

BYLINE: JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF


HIGHLIGHT: The cost of reducing emissions, restoring forests, cutting pollutants and helping poor regions adapt to climate change "pales in comparison to the price the world will pay if we fail to act now," it says. 

 BODY:
A report by a scientific group sponsored by the Vatican blames man-made emissions for recent global warming and the retreat of mountain glaciers and calls for urgent action to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases. "We call on all people and nations to recognize the serious and potentially irreversible impacts of global warming caused by the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants," the group says. [Catholic News Service]
American Solutions, a not-for-profit group run by Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker and potential presidential candidate, accepted donations totaling more than $1.5 million from coal interests, electric utilities, and offshore-drilling-related companies in 2010, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group. Mr. Gingrich has been critical of federal regulations opposed by many energy companies and recently called for the elimination of the Environmental Protection Agency, saying it should be replaced with a more industry-friendly agency. [The Daily Beast]
A plan to build hydroelectric dams on two wild rivers in southern Chile's scenic Patagonia region has won approval from environmental regulators despite fierce opposition from some locals and outside environmental groups. Among those calling for a halt to the $7 billion project is the National Resources Defense Council, an American group. "It makes no economic sense," says Robert F. Kennedy Jr., an attorney for the group. "The big energy demand is coming from the northern part of the country and the metals industry, and in those regions you already have available resources." [Associated Press]

        
On Our Radar: E.P.A. Calls Foul Over Republican Gas Price Claims
        
In the Mountains of Patagonia, a Harbinger of a Rising Ocean
        
Lung Association Ads Fault House Panel Chairman
        
Group That Beat Back Proposition 23 Is Reborn
        
On Our Radar: Climate Questions Follow 2012 Presidential Contender

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (95%); RELIGION (93%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); LAND RECLAMATION (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%) American Solutions; carbon emissions; Center for Responsive Politics; Chile; climate change; Environmental Protection Agency; hydroelectric dams; National Resources Defense Council; Newt Gingrich; Patagonia; Vatican; Breaking News; Politics and Policy; Science

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); CATHOLIC NEWS SERVICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



349 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Where the Jobs Were Lost

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Higher-income people fared much better on the employment front during the recession than those in lower-paying jobs, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said recently that people with less-than-average incomes bore the brunt of the recession's job losses. Census Bureau data confirm Mr. Bernanke's statement and show employment gains at the high end.
For the 12 months ended September 2008 -- the month Lehman Brothers failed -- employment in the United States was 146 million. Over the next 12 months, employment fell to 141 million.
The Census Bureau conducts a monthly survey of households and asks some of them what household members have been earning, if anything, on their jobs. I have used that data to investigate the types of jobs that were lost during the Great Recession and have classified the jobs by their weekly pay.
Among people who are working, the median weekly earnings are a bit more than $600 a week. That is, about half of working people earn less than $600, and about half earn more. So if Mr. Bernanke is correct, the bulk of the losses were of jobs paying less than $600 a week.Chart 1 categorizes people by their weekly earnings -- people earning $1 to $100 a week are in the first group, those earning $101 to $200 a week in the second, and so on. Although the chart's horizontal axis goes to $2,500, most workers are in the first seven categories.
The vertical axis measures the change, from the 12-month period ended September 2008 to the 12-month period ended September 2009, in the number of people (in millions) in the various categories. Because the zero earning category is excluded, the sum of all of the changes shown in the chart, plus a year's adult population growth (about two million), is equal to the change in the number of people without paying jobs, a category that grew by six million. 
(These totals do not agree exactly with the Census Bureau's employment totals for technical reasons related to the lack of reliable earnings information from some respondents. For brevity, I make no distinction between "workers" and "jobs," although some data shown in the chart include people earning money from more than one job during a week.)
The first two categories gained a bit, which probably reflects the surge in part-time employment during this period. But, over all, Mr. Bernanke was correct: an awful lot of jobs were lost in the $201-to-$600-a-week range. Essentially no jobs were lost in the combined $1,101+ categories.
Because less than a quarter of workers are earning $1,100 a week or more, it helps to examine those categories' job losses in percentage terms, as in Chart 2. 
For example, a value of 9 percent in Chart 2 for $2,101 to $2,200 means that 9 percent more people earned $2,101 to $2,200 a week in the 12 months after Lehman failed than earned that amount in the 12 previous months.
The percentage job losses tend to be less for the higher-paying jobs. All the categories above $2,000 a week actually gained jobs (although those types of jobs are relatively rare, the Census Bureau survey is large enough that it includes more than 12,000 people earning that amount over 24 months).
Economists have yet to examine the recession-era pay data thoroughly, but further study of the employment growth at the high end may someday help gauge the importance of unemployment insurance, "skill mismatch" and other factors that are said to have contributed to the employment downturn.

        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Measuring Jobless Families
        
The Great Deprivation
        
The Minimum Wage and Teenage Jobs
        
Who Benefits From Women's Progress?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CENSUS (90%); RECESSION (90%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%) Ben S. Bernanke; Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; Great Recession; jobs; recession; Unemployment; Bernanke, Ben S; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; United States

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



350 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: The Doctrine of Immaculate Crowding Out

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: John Boehner and the zombies. 

 BODY:
I've written before about the doctrine of immaculate transfer in international macroeconomics, which is a common fallacy but not, I've suggested, one that rises to zombie status.
There is, however, a somewhat related doctrine -- call it the doctrine of immaculate crowding out -- which has now, I'd argued, achieved true zombiehood. That is, it keeps coming back no matter how many times you kill it.
The most recent example came from John Boehner's Wall Street talk, where, as Bloomberg puts it, 
Boehner's statement in his Wall Street speech that government spending "is crowding out private investment and threatening the availability of capital" runs counter to the behavior of credit markets.
"Look at interest rates. Look at capital spending," said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist of IHS Inc., a research firm based in Englewood, Colorado. "It's very hard to come to a conclusion that there's any kind of crowding out."
Well, yes. If you believe that government spending has to crowd out private spending by actually changing incentives, namely by raising interest rates, you have to confront the fact that rates are historically very low, even for business borrowers:
But it's now an article of faith on the right that government spending must crowd out private spending, no evidence is necessary. And one must say, alas, that this view has been promulgated by supposedly serious economists.
And the thing is, at this point no amount of facts and logic will dislodge that article of faith. It's pretty hard to kill a zombie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%)

COMPANY: IHS INC (69%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (87%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



351 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Debates Easing Curbs on Developing Amazon Forest

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
SAO PAULO, Brazil -- Brazil's Congress fiercely debated changing a cornerstone environmental law on Wednesday night, a move conservationists warned could roll back one of the most effective pieces of legislation protecting forests and biodiversity in Brazil and undermine the country's efforts to slow greenhouse gas emissions. 
The debate pitted powerful agribusiness interests and the government's own plans for infrastructure projects against scientists and environmentalists concerned that the Brazilian Amazon, one of the world's largest forests, could be reaching a tipping point in its deforestation.
After announcing an agreement late Wednesday, the government's leader in Congress could not raise a quorum and the vote was pushed to next week.
A group of so-called Ruralistas in Congress, who favor expanding Brazil's agribusiness, including Representative Aldo Rebelo of the Communist Party, proposed changes to the law that would open up more land for agricultural expansion. Currently the law, known as the Forest Code, requires that 80 percent of a property in the Amazon, and 20 to 35 percent of land in certain other areas, remain forest. The proposed revisions would exempt small farms from those rules, potentially accelerating deforestation, environmentalists said.
''It is a recipe for disaster,'' said Thomas E. Lovejoy, of the Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment.
A proposed revision was first submitted to Congress last June that claimed Brazil's current law, first enacted in 1934, was holding back the country's economic development.
With some countries scrambling to ensure food security, including China, Brazil stands as the nation with the greatest potential in the world to expand land for cultivation and cattle grazing, agricultural experts say. Despite restrictions in the Forest Code, Brazil has become the world's largest exporter of beef and second only to the United States in the export of soybeans.
But despite Brazil's efforts to slow deforestation, scientists say the Amazon is approaching a tipping point where enough tropical biomass has been lost to cause large areas of the forest to shift irreversibly into savanna or other less biodiverse landscapes. Opening up more land to cultivation could reduce rainfall in the Amazon and place vast stretches of the tropical forest at risk of this ''dieback,'' researchers say. About 18 percent of the Brazilian Amazon has been deforested, according to official figures.
Climactic changes in the rain forest have begun to alarm researchers. The Amazon suffered its worst two droughts on record last year and in 2005. ''There are enough signals out there to not rush into this,'' Mr. Lovejoy said.
Antonio Nobre, a researcher at Brazil's National Institute of Space Studies, has complained about the lack of scientific input in the proposed changes to the Forest Code. ''If we had more time to debate, we would have an opportunity to construct environmental legislation suitable for the 21st century,'' Dr. Nobre said this month.
Some members of the government of President Dilma Rousseff, including her environment minister, have raised questions about the proposed revisions to the law. If it passes the lower house of Congress, it will need to be approved by the Senate. Ms. Rousseff could veto elements of the proposed changes before they become law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); DEFORESTATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BIOMASS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); EMISSIONS (73%); DROUGHT (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOOD SECURITY (69%); BEEF (63%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



352 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PAKISTANI OPPOSITION LEADER
CALLS FOR BIN LADEN INQUIRY
The leader of Pakistan's main opposition party called for an independent inquiry into why the Pakistani Army had no knowledge of the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden. PAGE A10
FALLOUT FOR CHIDING ROYALS 
A professor at a Bangkok university campus was charged by the powerful Thai military for violating a law that forbids defaming, insulting or threatening leading members of the royal family. The case has emerged as a symbol of a major cultural shift under way in the country, with the absolute reverence Thais have long extended to the royal family apparently modulating. PAGE A4
National
REPUBLICANS PROPOSE
MORE CUTS TO SPENDING
House Republicans pushed ahead with another round of spending reductions, moving to cut federal spending for next year by $30 billion more than the cuts enacted in the April deal that averted a government shutdown. PAGE A17
FAULTING THE PEACE CORPS
At a Congressional hearing, former Peace Corps volunteers who had been raped described a ''blame the victim'' culture that has persisted over the decades. Their accounts, along with testimony from the mother of a volunteer who had been killed, seemed to convince lawmakers to impose tighter controls on the 50-year-old agency. PAGE A18
New York
IN CITY OF TOMORROW,
TAXIS WITH SOFTER HONKS
The city announced last week that its Taxi of Tomorrow, the Nissan NV200 van, would be equipped with the latest in honk-reduction technology: a so-called low-annoyance horn to reduce screechiness. The city wants a better beep -- complete with an exterior light that turns on whenever a driver honks, so the police can better spot violators of honking laws. PAGE A19
CHANGING HOUSEHOLDS
Among the findings in the latest trove of data from the 2010 census was that Manhattan was the only borough in New York City to record an increase in the number of children under 5 in the last decade and in the number of married couples with children. PAGE A21
Business
GOOGLE INTRODUCES
'CLOUD' COMPUTER
Google introduced a new kind of computer, called a Chromebook, that stores everything online. Google hopes that the devices, which it says will eliminate the need for hard drive back-ups, will replace PCs running on Microsoft's Windows software. PAGE B1
JAPAN PONDERS NEW NORMAL
Across Japan, there is a shared realization that the natural and nuclear disasters from March 11 have exposed the fragility of its postwar economic order -- and that a recovery will not be a return to the status quo. PAGE B1
Sports
OLYMPIC OFFICIAL RESIGNS
AFTER OPINIONS GO PUBLIC
Peter Vidmar, who won two gold medals in gymnastics in the 1984 Olympics, was chosen to be the United States' chef de mission for next year's London Games. But he resigned after only eight days in the role, after reports revealed that he had supported initiatives against same-sex marriage. Some athletes said the resignation was warranted. But others said they felt Vidmar's views would not affect how he treated athletes. PAGE B20
Arts
A DIRECTOR IS BORN
WITH 'THE BIG BANG'
Tony Krantz began his Hollywood career as an agent, and then became a television producer. Now he is trying on another hat: film director. ''The Big Bang,'' a neo-noir thriller starring Antonio Banderas, which opens in limited release on Friday, represents his theatrical debut after a series of direct-to-DVD gigs. PAGE C1
Home
AFTER A STROKE,
RELEARNING HOME
After a debilitating stroke, Paul West had to relearn the home he lived in for years with his wife, Diane Ackerman, and also how to live in it. Domestic Lives. PAGE D4
Thursday Styles
A DESIGNER'S OTHER HALF
TELLS HIS STORY
In discussing ''L'Amour Fou,'' a new documentary about the relationship between Yves Saint Laurent and his lover and companion, Pierre Berge, Mr. Berge, was at once making an effort to market the film for an American audience, but also to set the record of his own life straight. PAGE e1
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A23
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); OLYMPICS (83%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); VOLUNTEERS (67%); SPORTS AWARDS (62%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



353 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Markets Slip as Oil and Commodities Drop

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Tumbling demand for commodities and a drop in the euro put financial markets on edge on Wednesday, pulling the Dow Jones industrial average down 1 percent.
Demand for gasoline in the United States fell by the largest amount in seven weeks, the Energy Information Administration said, a signal that consumers are cutting back as gas prices near a national average of $4 a gallon. Gas futures fell almost 8 percent. Crude oil fell back below $100 a barrel, a loss of more than 5 percent.
Fewer fill-ups may result in a drop in consumer and business spending as customers forgo trips to malls and restaurants and companies ship fewer products. That, in turn, could lead to lower corporate earnings and halt a stock rally that has sent the stock market up 7 percent this year. 
''People are becoming more conservative in their outlook and their spending as oil prices have risen, and that's making the market become more concerned about growth,'' said Quincy Krosby, the chief market strategist at Prudential Financial.
The fall in demand for gas means that traders will take a close look at Thursday's weekly report on first-time applications for unemployment benefits to see if companies are cutting back in other areas as well, Ms. Krosby said.
Stocks fell broadly, with energy and materials companies suffering the worst declines. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 130.33 points, to close at 12,630.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,342.08. The Nasdaq composite lost 26.83 points, or 0.9 percent, to 2,845.06.
The market's losses accelerated shortly before noon. The dollar and government bond prices rose as traders moved money into safer assets. The dollar rose 0.8 percent against a group of other major currencies, and the euro dropped 1.4 percent against the dollar.
Energy stocks fell 3 percent, the most of any of the 10 industries in the S.& P. 500 index. Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation fell more than 5 percent.
Materials producers also struggled after metals prices sank. Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold, a mining company, fell 5.6 percent. Copper fell 3.2 percent, and silver lost 7.7 percent. Silver fell sharply last week as part of a sell-off in commodities.
Commodities are still more expensive than they were a year ago. High oil prices helped push the nation's trade deficit up 6 percent, to $48.2 billion, in March from February. American companies sold more automobiles and other goods and services to customers abroad, but it was not enough to make up for an 18 percent rise in oil imports.
Strong earnings have been carrying the market higher since the beginning of 2011. On Tuesday the S.& P. 500 climbed for the third straight day to within 0.5 percent of its highest close for the year.
''Every time that stocks start to go down a little bit, you're seeing more selling pile on because people have made so much profit over the past nine months,'' said Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Partners, a New York-based hedge fund.
The Walt Disney Company's results late Tuesday fell short of expectations, and its stock fell 5.4 percent, the most of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow. The earthquake that struck Japan in March cut into revenue at its theme parks there, and its movie studio profits took a hit when its release ''Mars Needs Moms'' turned out to be a box-office bomb.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 15/32, to 103 28/32. The yield fell to 3.16 percent, from 3.21 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONSERVATISM (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); MINES & MINING (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%)

COMPANY: CABOT OIL & GAS CORP (63%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (63%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: COG (NYSE) (63%); FCX (NYSE) (63%); PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (63%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (63%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (63%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (63%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (63%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (63%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (63%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (63%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (63%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (63%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



354 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: SQUEEZED CITIES ASK NONPROFITS FOR MORE MONEY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
As recession-racked cities struggle to balance their budgets with everything short of feeling behind sofa cushions for loose change, a growing number are seeking more money -- just don't use the word taxes -- from nonprofit institutions that occupy valuable land but by law do not pay property taxes.
Boston has been sending letters to its largest nonprofit institutions this year, telling them the value of their land and asking them to begin making annual payments that would eventually rise to a quarter of what they would owe if they paid property taxes. Mayor-elect Rahm Emanuel of Chicago wants the city to begin charging water fees to nonprofits, which have been spared them in the past. And the mayor of Providence, R.I., Angel Taveras, cited Boston's example this month when he called on nonprofits to pay more money to the city. 
''Every citizen, every city worker, every taxpayer, every business and every organization -- including tax-exempt institutions -- must share part of the burden of saving our city,'' Mr. Taveras said in his budget address. He proposed closing Providence's $109 million budget gap by shutting schools, laying off workers, cutting the Police and Fire Department budgets and raising taxes on homeowners as well as seeking larger payments from the city's prestigious universities and other nonprofit institutions.
There is no question that nonprofit universities and hospitals -- eds and meds, as they are known to planners -- have played a central role in helping cities weather the Great Recession and its aftermath. They provide high-paying jobs, draw visitors and keep downtowns vibrant. But for cities that rely heavily on property taxes, those benefits have a cost. As nonprofits grow in size and importance in many cities, manufacturing has disappeared and development has moved to the suburbs, leaving much of the best land in some cities off the tax rolls.
So as the fiscal crisis lingers, some cities are weighing new fees on nonprofits for things like water service, street drainage and streetlights. Others, including New Orleans, want to tighten the rules establishing how tax-exempt status is granted. And many are seeking new or larger voluntary payments -- known as payments in lieu of taxes, or Pilots -- from nonprofit institutions.
But the effort to get nonprofit institutions to contribute more comes as many nonprofits are feeling the same pinch as cities: their endowments shrank as their investments lost money, contributions from donors and governments dried up and demand for their services remained the same or rose. David L. Thompson, the vice president for public policy at the National Council of Nonprofits, said increasing calls for nonprofits to pay more money to governments have left many tax-exempt nonprofit groups feeling demonized.
''Very simply, the social compact between nonprofits and governments exists to serve the public good,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''Changing the rules undermines the work of the institutions, takes money out the community and out of the services provided to constituents.''
The question of the payments has become a new wrinkle in the often-contentious relationship between town and gown.
Princeton University, for example, pays $1.2 million voluntarily to the Borough of Princeton, and $500,000 to the township. But when the university met resistance from local officials this year to some zoning changes it is seeking to build a new $300 million arts complex -- especially to its proposal to move a train station a little farther from downtown -- university officials said that they might rethink those voluntary payments.
''It would be difficult to justify continuing contributions at existing levels to local officials who not only refuse to help the university achieve a key educational objective, but in some cases have sought to prevent the project from going forward,'' Robert K. Durkee, the university's vice president and secretary, said in an e-mail, adding that the university already pays taxes on some properties that could qualify for exemptions, including housing for graduate students.
Boston is trying to avoid those kinds of negotiations by making its payments more systematic -- an approach other cities are watching closely.
Boston is sometimes known as the Athens of America for its universities, and its hospitals and museums draw visitors from around the world. As the capital of Massachusetts, it is home to many government buildings, from the golden-domed State House atop Beacon Hill to the most obscure agencies. But there is a downside to all that activity, which is so central to the city's character: it leaves more than half of Boston's land exempt from property taxes, said Ronald W. Rakow, the city's commissioner of assessing.
While Boston has long collected voluntary payments from its nonprofit institutions, it has done so haphazardly, with some universities paying millions of dollars, while their peers paid little or nothing. So Boston's mayor, Thomas M. Menino, convened a task force that studied the issue for much of last year and decided to try to establish guidelines for the voluntary payments. This year the city is trying to collect voluntary payments from all nonprofits with property worth more than $15 million. The payments will eventually rise to a quarter of what the nonprofits would pay in property taxes if they were taxable, with the provision that they can get credit for up to half of the money they owe by providing quantifiable ''community benefits'' that directly help city residents. By the time the system is phased in, the city hopes its annual payments from nonprofits will rise to $48 million from $15 million.
''There are some institutions that have already signed on to the program,'' Mr. Rakow said. ''Others are taking a wait-and-see approach.''
A study last year by the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, a research institute in Cambridge, found that the voluntary payments had already been made in at least 117 municipalities in at least 18 states. But Daphne A. Kenyon, a visiting fellow at the institute who was an author of the report, said more cities were expressing interest in such payments as the fiscal crisis had continued, views of nonprofits had evolved and the antitax climate had grown more pronounced in many places.
''I think the most important conclusion is that this should be a collaborative process,'' Ms. Kenyon said. ''Because if you don't make it collaborative -- if it's highly contentious, you could end up with no increase in revenue for the municipalities, a lot of legal bills and a lot of ill will.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Boston began seeking voluntary payments from nonprofits after Mayor Thomas M. Menino put a task force on the issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); SUBURBS (65%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



355 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Rapes Total In Millions In Congo, Study Finds

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
A new study in The American Journal of Public Health, expected to be published Thursday online, estimates that nearly two million women have been raped in the Democratic Republic of Congo, with women victimized at a rate of nearly one every minute.
The study, one of the first comprehensive looks at the prevalence of rape in Congo, indicates that the problem is much bigger and more pervasive than previously thought. Women have reported alarming levels of sexual abuse in the capital and in provinces far from Congo's war-torn east, a sign that the problem extends beyond the nation's primary conflict zone. 
''Not only is sexual violence more generalized,'' the study said, ''but our findings suggest that future policies and programs should focus on abuse within families.''
For the past 15 years, Congo has been racked by myriad rebel groups that terrorize civilians, particularly in the east, often to exploit the country's mineral riches or to flaunt their abusive power. United Nations officials have called Congo the epicenter of rape as a weapon of war, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clintonvisited rape victims in eastern Congo in 2009 in an effort to draw more attention to one of Africa's most intractable and disturbing conflicts.
Still, comprehensive statistics have been hard to come by. Many areas of Congo are inaccessible -- cut off by thick forests and warring groups -- and many victims have been too frightened to speak out. The central government is also weak, which has exacerbated the violence and made it difficult to collect information.
The conclusions in the new study, by three public health researchers -- Amber Peterman of the International Food Policy Research Institute, Tia Palermo of Stony Brook University and Caryn Bredenkamp of the World Bank -- are based on extrapolations from a household survey done in 2007 of 3,436 Congolese women nationwide.
The researchers found that around 12 percent were raped at least once in their lifetime and 3 percent were raped in the one-year period before the survey. Around 22 percent had been forced by their partners to have sex or perform sexual acts against their will, the study showed, implying that sexual abuse often happened at home. The women, ages 15 to 49, were interviewed in a demographic and health survey partly financed by the American government.
The study's authors then used current population estimates, which put Congo's population at around 70 million, to extrapolate that as many as 1.8 million Congolese women had been raped, with up to 433,785 raped in the one-year period, which would mean almost a rape a minute.
Congo has been the subject of sweeping studies before, including some by the International Rescue Committee, a private aid organization, which has estimated that Congo's civil war has claimed more lives than any other conflict since World War II. Some scientists have criticized those studies as being too reliant on projections and not grounded enough in hard facts.
Michael VanRooyen, director of the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, which has sent doctors to Congo to treat rape victims, said that there were ''some limitations in the methodology, such as the sampling methods and the sample sizes'' of the new rape study. But he argued that ''the important message remains: that rape and sexual slavery have become amazingly commonplace in this region of the D.R.C., and have defined this conflict as a war against women.''
The study's authors believe the rape problem may be worse than their study suggests. The findings are based on survey results from females of reproductive age, but many reports and witness accounts have shown that armed men often gang-rape young girls -- some even toddlers -- and women in their 70s and older, in addition to a growing number of men and boys. Also, many rape victims never report being assaulted because of the shame and stigma. In Congo, countless women have been abandoned by their husbands after being raped.
''There are two big surprises in the study,'' said Anthony Gambino, mission director for Congo of the United States Agency for International Development in 2001-4. ''First, the magnitude of the problem -- rates of rape that are much higher than seen elsewhere. And, second, that these alarming, shockingly high rape statistics are found in western Congo as well as northern and eastern Congo.''
Scientists and aid workers have struggled to pinpoint exactly why so many women are raped in Congo. Mr. Gambino says it may be related to nearly 40 years of ''steady economic and political decline,'' which has meant that the government's presence has essentially disappeared from many areas of Congo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



356 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Exports Rose in March, But Trade Gap Still Widened

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- American companies in March sold the most goods and services overseas in nearly two decades, but a jump in oil prices pushed the nation's trade deficit higher. 
The trade deficit rose 6 percent to $48.2 billion, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. That was the highest level since June 2010.
Exports increased to $172.7 billion, the most on records dating back to 1992. A weaker dollar has made American goods cheaper overseas. Exports have also risen because of rapid growth in developing countries. Companies exported more autos, chemicals and agricultural goods in March.
The United States reported its trade deficit one day after Beijing announced an $11.4 billion trade surplus for April. The disparity will probably escalate pressure on Beijing to let its currency rise to help narrow the trade gap.
Many American manufacturers accuse China of keeping its currency low to gain a trade advantage. A cheaper currency makes its exports cheaper in the United States and increases the cost of American goods in China.
Still, American exports will probably help increase economic growth in the January-to-March quarter. Economists say the government will probably revise growth upward -- to 1.9 percent -- when it issues its second estimate later this month.
''The details in the report are encouraging for economic momentum,'' said Joseph LaVorgna, an economist at Deutsche Bank, in a note to clients.
The biggest factor affecting the trade deficit is the price of oil. Oil imports rose to $39.3 billion, an 18 percent increase from the previous month. It was the highest level since August 2008 and reflected steep price increases, as well as greater demand. Excluding oil imports, the deficit narrowed.
The average price for a barrel of imported crude oil was $93.76 in March, up nearly 7.6 percent from February. Oil prices have risen even further since then, despite declines in recent days.
Economic growth generally slows when imports outpace exports, because more jobs go to foreign workers.
Still, economists expect the rapid rise in exports to increase growth in the April-to-June quarter, even with high oil prices. That is because the government adjusts for inflation when calculating the nation's gross domestic product.
The trade deficit with China, meanwhile, decreased slightly from February, to $18.1 billion. But it is still the largest deficit the United States has with any country, and it is expected to rise in the coming months.
On Tuesday, China reported that its imports rose at a slower pace in April than the previous month, while exports increased 30 percent. Its surplus with the United States rose to $15.1 billion, 52 percent higher than a year ago.
The trade gap between the two countries was a top issue at high-level meetings between United States and Chinese officials this week. But American manufacturers were disappointed in the outcome of the talks, arguing that they would not do much to reduce the nation's deficit with China.
Imports from Japan rose $1.3 billion, and American exports to that country also increased. But disruptions to Japan's auto production are likely to reduce American imports in coming months, economists say.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (87%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (87%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



357 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Demanding Answers From Pakistan

BYLINE: By ZALMAY KHALILZAD. 
Zalmay Khalilzad, a counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, was an ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq and the United Nations during the George W. Bush administration.

 BODY:
Washington
SINCE the 9/11 attacks, Pakistan has behaved toward the United States as both friend and adversary -- and gotten away with it. The latest evidence of its duplicity is the revelation that Osama bin Laden lived for years in a house near Pakistan's national military academy and a local branch of its intelligence service without any evident interference.
Even before the American raid last week on Bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan had a huge credibility problem. It provides arms and safe haven for Afghan insurgent groups and pays their commanders to carry out attacks, but denies doing so. 
In the broader war on terrorism, Pakistan says it is completely on our side. In fact, its record is very uneven. It has been helpful in arresting some high-value Qaeda operatives and has allowed the United States to wage Predator drone attacks. But it has refused to move decisively against groups that Washington regards as terrorists and has put limits on American unilateral operations. It is not surprising, then, that no one took seriously Pakistan's protestations of innocence after the discovery of Bin Laden.
The killing of Bin Laden only 60 miles from Islamabad, its capital, has put Pakistan on the defensive, and the nature of our strike capability is not lost on Pakistani leaders and their terrorist and insurgent clients. With American influence now at its peak and our troops still at full strength in Afghanistan, we have the leverage to force Pakistan to reconsider.
The United States should pursue a two-stage strategy. First, we should formally present any information about Pakistani complicity in shielding Bin Laden to Pakistan's leaders.
Then we should follow up with demands that Pakistan break the backbone of Al Qaeda in Pakistan by moving against figures like Bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri; remove limits on the Predator drone campaign; uproot insurgent sanctuaries and shut down factories that produce bombs for use against American and Afghan soldiers; and support a reasonable political settlement in Afghanistan.
Such a settlement would ensure that Afghanistan does not again become a haven for terrorists, allay Pakistan's legitimate security concerns and provide amnesty -- and allow political participation -- for insurgents who lay down their arms and accept the Afghan constitution.
In pursuing these goals, the United States should undertake a major diplomatic campaign, involving regional players like China and Saudi Arabia.
If Pakistan fulfills these demands, the United States should reward it with long-term commitments of assistance, through trade benefits, programs run by the World Bank and the United States Agency for International Development and similar efforts to promote development and education. But if Pakistan refuses to cooperate, the United States must put an end to its duplicity.
First, the United States should reduce its dependence on supply lines running through Pakistan to Afghanistan. We should expand alternative supply routes through Azerbaijan and other countries in Central Asia. Also, as we draw down forces in Afghanistan, our logistical requirements will diminish; this will give the United States more leeway to consider unilateral attacks against terrorists and insurgents in Pakistan.
Second, the United States should stay on the course set by President Obama to build, train and support Afghan security forces and reduce our own military presence while retaining the capacity to provide air support, intelligence collection and other capabilities that the Afghans currently lack. Such a posture can strengthen Afghanistan against Pakistani interference and help persuade Pakistan to embrace a settlement.
Third, the United States should conclude a longer-term agreement with Afghanistan to maintain a small, enduring military presence that would give us the capability to conduct counterterrorism operations and respond to possibilities like Pakistani nuclear weapons falling into the hands of extremists.
Fourth, the United States could consider seeking a United Nations Security Council resolution to authorize an investigation into how Bin Laden managed to hide in plain view. The inquiry should examine the presence of Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations in Pakistan.
This strategy requires an improvement in the troubled relationship between the United States and Afghanistan. The impending arrivals of a new American ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker, and commander, Lt. Gen. John R. Allen of the Marine Corps, provide an opportunity to make progress. The challenge for the Afghan leadership and the new team is to achieve a partnership in which the United States sustains its commitment at much lower cost over time, while Afghanistan does its part by improving governance and the rule of law.
It is in neither America's interest nor Pakistan's for relations to become more adversarial. But Pakistan's strategy of being both friend and adversary is no longer acceptable.
While the killing of Bin Laden was an important success, a greater achievement would be to transform United States-Pakistani relations into a true partnership that fights terrorism, advances a reasonable Afghan settlement and helps stabilize the region.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANCESCO BONGIORNI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



358 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Billionaire Is Guilty of Insider Trading: Verdict Expected to Embolden Prosecutors

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. Updated
Will the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the hedge fund firm Galleon Group, change anything on Wall Street?
Federal prosecutors hailed Wednesday's verdict as a powerful deterrent to investors trying to gain an unlawful advantage in the stock market.
''We will continue to pursue and prosecute those who believe they are both above the law and too smart to get caught,'' Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement after the verdict in the Rajaratnam case.
Mr. Bharara's office, which has led the Justice Department's pursuit of insider trading, has charged 47 individuals with insider trading crimes over the last 18 months and secured 36 convictions. 
While some question whether the aggressive pursuit of insider trading has distracted the government from investigating senior executives at the center of the financial crisis, the success in the Galleon case vindicates the tough prosecutorial tactics and vast resources deployed in this area. For the first time in a securities case, the government used wiretaps - a tool traditionally used with drug traffickers and organized crime figures - to record traders' telephone conversations.
Prosecutors have readily employed hardball investigatory methods. Late last year, agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted simultaneous raids of three large hedge funds, sending shock waves across Wall Street. Two of those funds have since closed.
Federal authorities have pressured traders and analysts to record their calls in order to build their cases. Last October, F.B.I. agents appeared unannounced at the Portland, Ore., home of an analyst and asked him to tape his calls with a hedge fund client.
The analyst, John Kinnucan, refused to work with the government and e-mailed his trading clients that he had ''declined the young gentleman's gracious offer to wear a wire and thus ensnare you in their devious web.''
As recently as January, the F.B.I. instructed a cooperating witness in the Galleon case to record a call with a former colleague to elicit incriminating evidence.
Government crackdowns on insider trading tend to run in cycles. The last one that received as much attention was the Wall Street sweep in the 1980s that resulted in the convictions of Ivan Boesky and Michael R. Milken. Those prosecutions came during that era's mergers-and-acquisitions boom, which was largely financed with the junk bonds popularized by Mr. Milken.
This time around, the insider trading scandals were born of the latest deal-making boom, which occurred during the middle of the last decade - a frenzied period in which some of America's largest companies fell into private hands.
It coincided with the explosive growth of hedge funds, once-secretive investment partnerships that have emerged as a powerful force in the global economy and have minted more than two dozen billionaires, according to Forbes magazine. Among them was Mr. Rajaratnam, who at the peak managed $7 billion of investors' money.
The insider trading investigation has spawned several arms of inquiry and has led to subpoenas of the world's largest financial institutions and arrests in a number of states. Mr. Rajaratnam's illegal stock tips came from all points of the globe. One witness testified that his chief source of confidential data about publicly traded technology companies came from a tipster in Taiwan. Another delivered secret information from Dublin about the investment activities of a Middle East sovereign wealth fund.
But some academics and Wall Street critics argue that prosecutors should have focused their efforts - and their resources - on ferreting out wrongdoing stemming from the financial crisis. The Justice Department has yet to bring criminal charges against any executive who ran a major financial services firm leading up to the disaster, which was caused by aggressive risk-taking and shoddy lending practices.
''The total amounts of money and the consequences in insider trading are trivial compared to the damage caused by the behavior that caused the financial crisis,'' said Charles Ferguson, an academic and filmmaker whose movie about the financial crisis, ''Inside Job,'' won the 2011 Academy Award for best documentary.
''I'm not saying that insider trading isn't a serious crime, but the government should be deploying more resources to investigate those cases,'' Mr. Ferguson said.
Last week, Mr. Bharara filed a civil lawsuit against Deutsche Bank, accusing the firm of lying about the quality of mortgages it handled under a government program. At a news conference, he said there was not enough evidence to justify a criminal complaint.
Federal authorities have cited the loss of confidence in the stock market as a reason to pursue insider trading cases. In his closing argument in the Rajaratnam trial, Reed M. Brodsky, a prosecutor, stressed the point that such activities provided Wall Street professionals with an unfair advantage over the ''average, ordinary investor.''
''The stock market is designed to make sure the investing public isn't cheated,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''Wall Street is supposed to be an even playing field.''
Whether the dozens of arrests and convictions will produce any meaningful change in the way professional investors trade stocks is unclear. Still, there has been a reaction as prosecutors' tough talk and use of wiretaps spawn a culture of fear on Wall Street.
Security firms report an increase in hedge funds hiring them to conduct electronic sweeps of their offices to check for listening devices. Once lightly regulated, hedge funds have also stepped up their compliance procedures and increased their budget for legal services to ferret out illicit trading. Investors are also demanding a higher level of oversight at the funds and are stepping up background checks on their managers.
''I probably get five or six requests every month seeking verification that we're the auditor for a given fund,'' said Alan Alzfan, a partner at the accounting firm McGladrey & Pullen. ''I used to get five or six a year.''
But for all the added scrutiny and negative publicity surrounding insider trading at hedge funds, investors - lured by the promise of outsize returns - continue to pour billions of dollars into them. Last month, the industry celebrated another milestone: the money under hedge fund control surpassed $2 trillion, a record.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with an article about the possible impact on Wall Street of the insider trading conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, a prominent hedge fund manager, misstated the activity shown. The photograph, from October 2009, showed Preet S. Bharara, the United States Attorney for Manhattan, at a news conference announcing the charges against Mr. Rajaratnam; he was not announcing the verdict in the case.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raj Rajaratnam left Federal District Court in Manhattan on Wednesday after a jury found him guilty of fraud and conspiracy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Raj Rajaratnam is scheduled to be sentenced on July 29. The Galleon Group, a hedge fund he founded and ran, once managed more than $7 billion in assets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW GOMBERT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); VERDICTS (92%); INSIDER TRADING (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BONDS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); WITNESSES (77%); MERGERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SCANDALS (70%); WIRETAPPING (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



359 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Schools Chief Appoints Two As Deputies

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
Dennis M. Walcott, the new city schools chancellor, made his first senior appointments on Wednesday, selecting a Philadelphia school official to oversee labor issues, and promoting a local superintendent supervisor to lead efforts to teach at-risk students and reduce the achievement gap between students of different races and economic classes. 
The appointments fill vacancies left by a string of high-level departures during the brief tenure of Cathleen P. Black, who was pushed out as schools chancellor in April.
Mr. Walcott said Wednesday that his appointments reflected his desire for ideas from both inside and outside the city school system, and said the achievement gap would be a focus of his administration.
''I'm in competition with Prep for Prep and A Better Chance,'' Mr. Walcott said, mentioning two nonprofit programs that give talented minority students scholarships to private schools, ''and I want those students to stay within the system. I want programs to attract and retain those children within the public school system, and make sure that we improve the outcomes for all students.''
David A. Weiner, the new deputy chancellor for talent, labor and innovation, most recently served as the chief academic officer for the Philadelphia school district. At a time when teachers are being threatened with layoffs, he will oversee a contentious set of issues: relations with the teachers' union, the creation of new teacher evaluations, and the city's effort to use technology and other means to transform classrooms.
Before going to Philadelphia, Mr. Weiner, 36, was the founding principal of Public School 503, the School of Discovery, in Brooklyn, and an elementary school teacher in Boston and San Francisco. He replaces John White, who recently left to become the superintendent of a district of struggling schools in Louisiana.
Dorita P. Gibson, 56, who has worked for the city schools for 30 years, will become the deputy chancellor for equity and access, which will combine the jobs of two former school officials. With these appointments, Mr. Walcott will reduce the number of deputy chancellor positions to six from eight.
Among the issues Dr. Gibson will address are the declining percentages of black students in the city's gifted programs and specialized high schools. The latest state math and English tests showed that the proficiency gap between minority and white students in elementary and middle school was about the same level as when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: A BETTER CHANCE (56%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



360 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Propose More Cuts To Spending

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Forging ahead with another round of spending reductions, House Republicans on Wednesday moved to slash federal spending for next year by another $30 billion below the cuts enacted in the April deal that averted a government shutdown.
The proposed allocations for spending across all federal agencies were issued by Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who leads the Appropriations Committee, setting up a clash with Democrats and the White House over what Mr. Rogers acknowledged was a plan certain to draw criticism. 
''Many of these cuts will not win any popularity contests,'' Mr. Rogers said, ''but these types of reductions are imperative to overcoming our unparalleled fiscal crisis so that we can get our economy moving, create jobs and provide future financial security.''
The allocations, which are based on the budget approved by the House, will allow the Appropriations Committee to begin assembling bills specifying agency spending for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Mr. Rogers said his intention was to push all the measures through the House by that date, a goal Congress has struggled to meet even when considering measures that bolstered agency budgets.
While the net reduction in spending is $30 billion, the impact on many domestic programs would be much more pronounced because the Pentagon received a $17 billion increase in its budget. Committee officials said spending that was not related to security would decrease by about $46 billion. The overall proposal is $121.5 billion less than what President Obama sought in his original budget this year. Labor, health and education programs, a priority of the president and Congressional Democrats, would be cut by $18.2 billion, coming in at $41 billion less than the amount recommended by the White House.
Representative Norm Dicks of Washington State, the top Democrat on the spending panel, assailed the Republican proposal as irresponsible, saying it would necessitate ''draconian'' cuts to college aid, early childhood education, food safety, law enforcement, public health and national infrastructure.
''It's clear from what we're seeing in the economy that if these cuts were enacted, they would lead to a severe setback for economic growth by shedding more government jobs and further depressing state and local government spending,'' Mr. Dicks said.
The pared-back spending levels represent another step in the transformation of the Appropriations Committee, which in recent decades has reliably increased federal spending. And they come after last month's bipartisan agreement that cut $38 billion from 2011 budgets.
With the Senate still under Democratic control, lawmakers there are expected to move ahead with a significantly different approach, making negotiations to reconcile competing spending bills extremely difficult.
Though members of Congress and the administration are engaged in talks on how to reduce the federal deficit and approve an increase in the federal debt limit later this summer, the appropriations panel moved ahead with its spending program because of the time needed to draft the 12 separate spending bills.
It is possible that the deficit negotiations could produce an agreement that would cover spending for 2012, easing the fight over the spending measures or producing different levels altogether. Mr. Obama met with Senate Democrats at the White House on Wednesday to discuss the debt talks and is set to meet with Senate Republicans on Thursday.
The spending plan is aimed at following through on the push by the new Republican majority in the House to deliver on its promises to take on federal spending and return cabinet agency budgets to the level they were at before President Obama took office.
''We must rebuild Americans' confidence in the way the government spends its taxpayer dollars and avoid the uncertainty and expense often caused by past-due appropriations bills,'' Mr. Rogers said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (64%); CHILDREN (64%); FOOD SAFETY (50%)

PERSON: HAROLD ROGERS (79%); NORMAN D DICKS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



361 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS Q&A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: A Man Who Made Stereos, Shavers and Shelves Beautiful

BYLINE: By RIMA SUQI

 BODY:
Dieter Rams is considered by many to be a design legend. The 78-year-old German designer is probably best known for the work he did as the design director at Braun (a job he held from 1961 until 1997), where he was responsible for some of the best-looking and -sounding stereo components ever made, along with a host of other products like shavers and kitchen appliances. He has inspired a number of other designers, including Jasper Morrison, Naoto Fukasawa and Jonathan Ive, the senior vice president for industrial design at Apple, who wrote the foreword to ''As Little Design as Possible: The Work of Dieter Rams,'' by Sophie Lovell, out next month from Phaidon Press.
Mr. Rams was recently in town to celebrate the 50th birthday of his 606 Universal Shelving System and to attend the opening of the corresponding exhibition, ''60s 606 Is 50,'' at the Vitsoe showroom in NoHo. On a recent afternoon, he was dressed in a sharp tan corduroy suit, wearing his trademark horn-rimmed glasses and carrying a cane, when he met a reporter at Vitsoe, a company created in 1959 to produce his designs. 
That's a nice cane.
The cane was a present from Nanna Ditzel 40 years ago. I never knew at that time I would need it one day. I had an operation. I have a new part in my knee, some mechanical thing.
Are you enjoying New York?
I like to be in New York. Le Corbusier described it in the 1930s as a ''wonderful catastrophe.'' It is still a wonderful catastrophe, but inspiring. One thing I am crazy about is the seafood -- the littleneck clams. I like them very much, at that place in Grand Central Station.
The Oyster Bar?
Yes, it is always busy.
Are you really retired? You don't seem like the retiring type.
Yes. I sit, I think, I make some drawings. As a designer, you cannot retire totally. I have some new things coming, but it's a question of investigation and some money.
What's an average day for you?
I am not an early bird. I go to bed normally between midnight and 1 o'clock, so it is understandable that I cannot be an early bird. I wake up around 9 o'clock. Even when I was with Braun, and I was responsible for a lot of people, if they had meetings, I had to be there at 8 or the latest 9. But if there were no meetings, I always tried not to start before 9 o'clock.
You have a very nice Japanese-style garden at your home in Kronberg.
I was often in Japan for Braun, and I was always fascinated by the Japanese garden.
What about it?
The whole arrangement, with the water, the stones, how they cut the trees down to bonsais. So I decided, as I built my house in 1971, not only to insulate the swimming pool but also to make a garden influenced by the Japanese gardens.
There is always something to do there -- it's a kind of design to cut the trees in a way that they are not getting bigger but still have their own charisma. But it is not a real Japanese garden, because we have different weather, so I call it a Japanese-inspired European garden. You have to spend a lot of time on it, and sometimes I don't have the time, so I hear about it from my wife.
How did you meet your wife?
She's a photographer. I was falling in love with a photographer who was a friend of hers. They studied together. Then she, the first, decided to marry another man, and leave me with her friend.
So it happened that we lived together a long time without being married; we married after 10 years. We don't have children. We had a cat -- she died -- and now we can't decide if we should get a new one. She was a very special cat.
Are you an only child?
I am the only child. And it was not a nice time. My parents decided in 1940 or 1939 that they couldn't live anymore together; I was sent to boarding school. I was 14 or 15 as the war was ending. I was living mostly with my grandparents, because before, during the war, everything was difficult. The schools were closed because of the bombings. So I came back to my birth city, Wiesbaden, not far from Frankfurt, and stayed with my grandparents. My grandfather was a carpenter, he specialized in surfaces. I learned from him how to polish pianos, for example.
Were you interested in that?
My interest was to stay with architecture, with additional studies for landscape planning.
You mean urban planning?
Yes. I think it is now very important. There is a lot of bad architecture. What we need more is to look at how our landscape should look in the next decades.
What's wonderful in New York is that old train park. I want to see that.
The High Line can get very crowded -- you should go early. Tell me more about your home. For someone who advocates having ''less,'' you seem to have collected a lot of things there.
If I don't have those things, I cannot improve them. I have to work with those things. It doesn't end when you are finished, especially with the shelf system. It's improved in a lot of details.
Are you still trying to improve other things?
Most of the things are done already -- you can't make it better. Look at chairs: there are enough chairs. There are bad chairs, some good ones, mostly bad ones. But there are, even with a chair, possibilities to make it more comfortable or, from the economic point, you can make it cheaper, save some material or you can try new materials.
I hear you've started a foundation.
The idea behind it is to help young designers to get an education.
Will it also provide funds to preserve your house?
The house belongs to the foundation.
It must be odd to think about things like that.
People say that the house, with all the things, it looks like a museum. Of course it does. There are all those things I worked on, and some things I am still working on. We have nobody, no children. That is the reason we made the foundation. I am interested that it stays in the right hands.
''60s 606 Is 50'' runs through May 28 at Vitsoe, 33 Bond Street (Lafayette Street); information: (917) 675-6990 or vitsoe.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOUND DESIGN: Clockwise, from left: Dieter Rams
Mr. Rams with his shelving system in photograph and in one of his sketches
 a Braun stereo he designed in 1956. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEAFOOD (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: BRAUN GMBH (85%)

PERSON: JONATHAN IVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%); JAPAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



362 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Hardball Tactics Against Insider Trading: Prosecutors Hope Verdict Will Be a Deterrent to Others

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
Will the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the hedge fund firm Galleon Group, change anything on Wall Street?
Federal prosecutors hailed Wednesday's verdict as a powerful deterrent to investors trying to gain an unlawful advantage in the stock market.
''We will continue to pursue and prosecute those who believe they are both above the law and too smart to get caught,'' Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement after the verdict in the Rajaratnam case. 
Mr. Bharara's office, which has led the Justice Department's pursuit of insider trading, has charged 47 individuals with insider trading crimes over the last 18 months and secured 36 convictions.
While some question whether the aggressive pursuit of insider trading has distracted the government from investigating senior executives at the center of the financial crisis, the success in the Galleon case vindicates the tough prosecutorial tactics and vast resources deployed in this area. For the first time in a securities case, the government used wiretaps -- a tool traditionally used with drug traffickers and organized crime figures -- to record traders' telephone conversations.
Prosecutors have readily employed hardball investigatory methods. Late last year, agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted simultaneous raids of three large hedge funds, sending shock waves across Wall Street. Two of those funds have since closed.
Federal authorities have pressured traders and analysts to record their calls in order to build their cases. Last October, F.B.I. agents appeared unannounced at the Portland, Ore., home of an analyst and asked him to tape his calls with a hedge fund client.
The analyst, John Kinnucan, refused to work with the government and e-mailed his trading clients that he had ''declined the young gentleman's gracious offer to wear a wire and thus ensnare you in their devious web.''
As recently as January, the F.B.I. instructed a cooperating witness in the Galleon case to record a call with a former colleague to elicit incriminating evidence.
Government crackdowns on insider trading tend to run in cycles. The last one that received as much attention was the Wall Street sweep in the 1980s that resulted in the convictions of Ivan Boesky and Michael R. Milken. Those prosecutions came during that era's mergers-and-acquisitions boom, which was largely financed with the junk bonds popularized by Mr. Milken.
This time around, the insider trading scandals were born of the latest deal-making boom, which occurred during the middle of the last decade -- a frenzied period in which some of America's largest companies fell into private hands.
It coincided with the explosive growth of hedge funds, once-secretive investment partnerships that have emerged as a powerful force in the global economy and have minted more than two dozen billionaires, according to Forbes magazine. Among them was Mr. Rajaratnam, who at the peak managed $7 billion of investors' money.
The insider trading investigation has spawned several arms of inquiry and has led to subpoenas of the world's largest financial institutions and arrests in a number of states. Mr. Rajaratnam's illegal stock tips came from all points of the globe. One witness testified that his chief source of confidential data about publicly traded technology companies came from a tipster in Taiwan. Another delivered secret information from Dublin about the investment activities of a Middle East sovereign wealth fund.
But some academics and Wall Street critics argue that prosecutors should have focused their efforts -- and their resources -- on ferreting out wrongdoing stemming from the financial crisis. The Justice Department has yet to bring criminal charges against any executive who ran a major financial services firm leading up to the disaster, which was caused by aggressive risk-taking and shoddy lending practices.
''The total amounts of money and the consequences in insider trading are trivial compared to the damage caused by the behavior that caused the financial crisis,'' said Charles Ferguson, an academic and filmmaker whose movie about the financial crisis, ''Inside Job,'' won the 2011 Academy Award for best documentary.
''I'm not saying that insider trading isn't a serious crime, but the government should be deploying more resources to investigate those cases,'' Mr. Ferguson said.
Last week, Mr. Bharara filed a civil lawsuit against Deutsche Bank, accusing the firm of lying about the quality of mortgages it handled under a government program. At a news conference, he said there was not enough evidence to justify a criminal complaint.
Federal authorities have cited the loss of confidence in the stock market as a reason to pursue insider trading cases. In his closing argument in the Rajaratnam trial, Reed M. Brodsky, a prosecutor, stressed the point that such activities provided Wall Street professionals with an unfair advantage over the ''average, ordinary investor.''
''The stock market is designed to make sure the investing public isn't cheated,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''Wall Street is supposed to be an even playing field.''
Whether the dozens of arrests and convictions will produce any meaningful change in the way professional investors trade stocks is unclear. Still, there has been a reaction as prosecutors' tough talk and use of wiretaps spawn a culture of fear on Wall Street.
Security firms report an increase in hedge funds hiring them to conduct electronic sweeps of their offices to check for listening devices. Once lightly regulated, hedge funds have also stepped up their compliance procedures and increased their budget for legal services to ferret out illicit trading. Investors are also demanding a higher level of oversight at the funds and are stepping up background checks on their managers.
''I probably get five or six requests every month seeking verification that we're the auditor for a given fund,'' said Alan Alzfan, a partner at the accounting firm McGladrey & Pullen. ''I used to get five or six a year.''
But for all the added scrutiny and negative publicity surrounding insider trading at hedge funds, investors -- lured by the promise of outsize returns -- continue to pour billions of dollars into them. Last month, the industry celebrated another milestone: the money under hedge fund control surpassed $2 trillion, a record.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reed M. Brodsky, a prosecutor, after the verdict in the insider trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam, who was found guilty of securities fraud and conspiracy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, announcing the verdict. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); VERDICTS (92%); INSIDER TRADING (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); BONDS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); MERGERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SCANDALS (70%); WIRETAPPING (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



363 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: For Some Sports Figures, Opinions Have a Price

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
When Peter Vidmar, who won two gold medals in gymnastics in the 1984 Olympics, was chosen to be the United States' chef de mission for next year's London Games, the chairman of the United States Olympic Committee called him a natural leader and an extraordinary individual.
Yet Vidmar, who has been involved with the Olympic movement for more than 20 years, lasted in the role for only eight days. He resigned last Friday after several reports revealed that he had supported initiatives against same-sex marriage. He said he stepped down because he did not want any controversy over his opinions to overshadow the United States team. 
For some, like the former Olympic softball player Jessica Mendoza, the resignation was warranted. Others, like the former Olympic swimmer John Naber, said Vidmar's personal views would not have affected Vidmar's treatment of athletes.
In the volunteer job of chef de mission, Vidmar would have been chief spokesman for the United States team, attending sponsor events, conducting news conferences and meeting foreign dignitaries.
He also would have acted as the liaison between Team USA and the International Olympic Committee and the London organizing committee.
''I think there are a number of issues that athletes or people in prominent sports roles just shouldn't take a position on because opinions on those issues are so split down the middle,'' said Jim Scherr, the former chief executive of the U.S.O.C. who now runs a sports marketing firm in Colorado. ''You have to advise them that they should only take a position on certain things if they don't care about the economic consequences. For example, if I were them, I wouldn't touch the same-sex marriage issue. I wouldn't touch abortion.''
Vidmar, 49, who declined to be interviewed, participated in a rally supporting Proposition 8, the California ballot measure that defined marriage as being between a man and a woman, and donated $2,000 to the cause.
He is a Mormon and said that he took that stance for religious reasons, but that his views would not influence his ability to serve as chef de mission. In earlier times, his opinions might not have made a difference because few would have known about them, Scherr said. But not now.
''With the proliferation of social media and blogs, opinions get out there so much earlier than they used to, so if people take a stand on an issue, it becomes known, lightning quick,'' Scherr said. ''So there's a greater risk for athletes who take a stand on controversial issues.''
David Masci, a senior researcher at the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life, said opinion on same-sex marriage divided the public but was also evolving. The most recent poll conducted by Pew showed that more people oppose same-sex marriage than support it, 48 to 42 percent. Over the years, that gap has narrowed. Masci pointed out that, in 1996, there was a 38-point gap between those against same-sex marriage and those for it, 65 to 27. The debate over the issue has arisen in the sports world twice in the last week. Rangers forward Sean Avery recently recorded a video in support of same-sex marriage. Within days of the video being made public last weekend, a hockey agent, Todd Reynolds, said on his company's Twitter page that he was ''very sad to read Sean Avery's misguided support of same-gender 'marriage.' ''
''Legal or not, it will always be wrong,'' Reynolds said.
Some commenters called for a boycott of Reynolds's agency. Others took Reynolds's side.
Mendoza, an Olympic champion in 2004 and a former president of the Women's Sports Foundation, said taking a stand on same-sex marriage could elicit both passionate support and intense criticism.
''Peter Vidmar is such a good person, but he and some others think being against same-sex marriage is not discrimination,'' Mendoza said. ''My feeling is that it is discrimination, hands down. It would be like speaking out against certain races or bashing women or bashing Asian-Americans. But I know a lot of people would disagree.''
Mendoza said that the chef de mission should represent all American Olympians and that Vidmar's views had surely alienated some gay and lesbian athletes. But when she posted a link on her Facebook page to a column she wrote about the issue, several of her friends disagreed.
One said: ''It is sad for the Olympic movement -- and makes me sad too. Peter Vidmar should be leading. NOBODY holds the views of ALL the athletes, and marriage has NOTHING to do with competition.'' Another said, ''How unfortunate that a few are pushing their agenda on others through this and making it political.''
Naber, a swimmer who won four gold medals at the 1976 Olympics, told The Chicago Tribune that Vidmar would ''never knowingly disrespect, offend or alienate anyone.''
Steve Penny, the president of USA Gymnastics, said Vidmar's beliefs on same-sex marriage had never affected the way Vidmar served the organization. Vidmar has been chairman of the board since 2008.
''Peter has been an ideal chairman for USA Gymnastics and would have been an ideal chef de mission for the U.S. Olympic team,'' Penny said. ''It's unfortunate that this issue clouded his selection because Peter is the most inclusive man I have ever met.''
Scott Blackmun, the chief executive of the U.S.O.C., said that Vidmar would have served the athletes well but that he respected Vidmar's decision to step down. Now, Vidmar's situation may be a lesson for others in the Olympic movement.
Donna de Varona, a two-time Olympic gold medalist in swimming, said future candidates for positions like chef de mission should realize that their pasts would be more scrutinized than ever. Candidates who express an opinion publicly about a hot-button issue are likely to pay the price for it, she said.
''I just think we live in a completely different era right now, and you have to be very careful about what you say if you have hopes of being a figurehead,'' de Varona said. ''You can't be naive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); SOFTBALL (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); BALLOTS (66%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (61%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



364 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Streamlining, HSBC Aims To Cut $3.5 Billion in Costs

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
7:49 p.m. Updated
HSBC said on Wednesday that it planned to cut jobs, scale back its retail banking operations and possibly sell its bank card business in the United States as part of a strategy to reduce costs as much as $3.5 billion in the next two to three years.
The bank said it would focus on commercial banking and wealth management, while selling or shutting some less-profitable retail banking operations. HSBC, one of the biggest European banks, said the steps were expected to help it improve returns despite slower economic growth and a stricter regulatory environment. 
''This is not about shrinking the business but about creating capacity to reinvest in growth markets and to provide a buffer against regulatory and inflationary headwinds,'' said Stuart T. Gulliver, who took over as chief executive in January. He added that it was too early to say how many jobs would be cut.
Banks are seeking to streamline their business as new financial regulations require them to maintain higher capital reserves, putting pressure on profitability. The Barclays chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., said in February that he would review businesses and close some that did not generate enough return.
Less than a month after taking over as chief executive, Mr. Gulliver held a two-day meeting with his management team at HSBC's Hong Kong offices to discuss necessary changes. They agreed that HSBC's branches failed to focus enough on the special demands of local markets and clients.
''We always tried to do everything, everywhere, always, and I'm not going to do that,'' said Mr. Gulliver, who previously ran HSBC's investment banking operation.
Having already decided to withdraw from Russia's retail banking market, HSBC said it would test all of its operations and businesses for profitability. The bank also set a target of 48 percent to 52 percent for its cost efficiency ratio. Costs as a proportion of income were 55 percent last year, which the bank said was ''unacceptable.''
Mr. Gulliver also said he planned to radically change HSBC's business in the United States, which had been a drag on earnings ever since the subprime mortgage crisis dealt a blow to Household, the American lender HSBC acquired in 2003. HSBC is considering the sale of its American consumer bank card operation and plans to expand its private banking business to Latin America. It also hopes its commercial banking unit will benefit as America's export industry rebuilds, Mr. Gulliver said.
''We need to get to a situation where the U.S. doesn't lose us a colossal amount of money,'' Mr. Gulliver said. The business was a ''significant financial cost to HSBC and a management distraction.''
Despite large losses in the United States, HSBC weathered the financial crisis better than many of its rivals, mainly because it generated about half of its earnings from Asia and had strong deposit inflows on the commercial banking side. HSBC did not have to ask for financial help from the British government.
But this year the bank's share price started to lag those of Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase and Barclays as some investors expressed concerns about rising costs and the pace of growth. The strategy HSBC announced on Wednesday failed to create enthusiasm among some analysts. HSBC's stock closed down more than 1 percent in London.
''We would have loved to see a little bit more'' change, said Pawel Uszko, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. ''The main thing they said was cost-cutting, and that will take two to three years to get there.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Outside the HSBC headquarters in Hong Kong. The bank, one of Europe's largest, said it would sell or shut down some less-profitable operations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY YIP/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRIVATE BANKING (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



365 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BURLINGTON JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: In a Green Town, Activists See Red Over Lockheed Martin

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BURLINGTON, Vt. -- Car sharing is beloved in this laid-back college town, as are solar panels, rain gardens and most anything designed to fight global warming from the ground up. A bicycle service will pick up your kitchen scraps for composting, and farmers will deliver your vegetables in a biodiesel-fueled truck.
Pride in these homegrown efforts runs deep, and so some Burlingtonians were livid when Mayor Bob Kiss announced a partnership late last year with Lockheed Martin, the military contractor, to work on clean-energy projects. 
Accusations of ''greenwashing'' have careered about like the fighter jets that Lockheed manufactures, with opponents warning that Burlington should not lend environmental credibility to a company whose products contribute to the military's carbon footprint. Peace activists, a fixture here for decades, have also deplored the alliance, pointing to Lockheed's production of bombs and missiles and pointing out that Mr. Kiss, a member of the state's liberal Progressive Party, was a conscientious objector during the Vietnam War.
''The irony is just overwhelming,'' said Anna Guyton, manager of mission and programs for the Peace and Justice Center, a local activist group. ''Lockheed is just a really inappropriate partner for this city.''
While a letter of cooperation dated Dec. 20 noted possible focal points, like solar and electric car technologies, Lockheed and Burlington have no specific plans yet, and the vagueness has rankled opponents.
Mr. Kiss said the partnership came out of a meeting in Vancouver last year sponsored by the Carbon War Room, a nonprofit group founded by the British billionaire Richard Branson to encourage private industry to invest in -- and profit from -- clean-energy projects. Burlington officials approached Lockheed, Mr. Kiss said, and proposed that the company ''test drive'' some of its clean-energy technologies.
''My perspective on this is we want to include everybody we can in addressing climate change,'' he said last month at City Hall. ''I would say everybody's in, nobody's out, so long as we're working together.''
But critics say that the city has plenty of local experts to help with the kind of projects Mr. Kiss envisions, and that Lockheed stands to benefit far more from the alliance than Burlington does.
''I'm deathly afraid of polluting our image with their war machine record,'' said Jeffrey C. Frost, executive director of AgRefresh, a bioenergy consulting firm here. ''Realistically, why would they be coming here and asking us to partner with them? The only rational answer I can come up with is they want to associate themselves with what Burlington represents.''
A spokesman for Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Md., said in an e-mail that the company wanted to work with Burlington because of its small size, about 42,000 people, and its long commitment to environmental sustainability.
Asked about the criticism of Lockheed as a weapons manufacturer, the spokesman, Dean Acosta, said the company could in fact use its evolving clean-energy expertise to help make the world safer. ''As we strategically assess future trends,'' he said, ''we see scarce resources -- particularly energy resources -- as potential sources of conflict. Through our experience in energy and expertise in complex systems engineering and 120,000 innovating minds, Lockheed Martin is well positioned to address energy security.''
The partnership, he said, is a first for Lockheed.
Ms. Guyton and Jonathan Leavitt, a community organizer, have sought to rally opposition with leafleting, forums at local colleges and a blog. They are also circulating a petition for a ballot question that would urge the mayor ''not to enter into agreements with corporate war profiteers like Lockheed Martin.''
Meanwhile, Liza Cowan, a local artist, is circulating an eye-catching series of ''No Lockheed'' prints to draw attention to the issue. She said she was especially unhappy that the letter of cooperation mentioned ''possible support'' for Burlington's public schools. Six years ago, she fought the sponsorship of a reading program by General Dynamics, a military contractor that had a branch here at the time, which distributed pencils and books stamped with its corporate logo at local schools. ''It just seems like this was going to be the same thing but on a bigger scale,'' she said.
Ms. Cowan also raised another common theory: that the partnership was an attempt by Lockheed to win local support for basing its F-35 fighter jets at Burlington International Airport. The Vermont Air Guard already flies F-16s here, and the Air Force has said Burlington is one of two possible bases for the F-35s.
But Larry Kupferman, director of the city's Community and Economic Development Office, said Burlington would have no say in the final decision.
Emma Mulvaney-Stanak, a Progressive city councilor, said that opposition to the partnership had ''spun out of control'' and that residents should reserve judgment until more details emerged.
''I have a personal opinion, but I also have a practical opinion,'' she said. ''We have a pretty aggressive climate action plan, and to even achieve small elements of it will take a lot of financial resources and planning and expertise. All of those things we can't necessarily come up with on our own.''
Noting the recent flooding from Lake Champlain, which reached record levels last week after an unusually wet winter and spring, Ms. Mulvaney-Stanak added, ''The clock is ticking on climate change all around us, and we need to be pragmatic.''
Under pressure from protesters, the City Council passed a resolution in February calling for any corporate partners to meet community standards. But it has yet to define those standards, which would probably be advisory at best.
Mr. Kiss said most residents he had talked to about the partnership ''have said, 'If there's a benefit then let's proceed.' ''
''This can be swords into plowshares,'' he said. ''Someone could look at it and say, 'If you want Lockheed Martin to look different, this might be one way that it's allowed to change.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jonathan Leavitt sang a protest song accusing Lockheed Martin of ''greenwashing'' in Burlington, Vt. Liza Cowan created ''No Lockheed'' prints, below. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY SWOPE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); CITIES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); BIOFUELS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (87%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (87%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (93%) VERMONT, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



366 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Britain Warns That Inflation May Reach 5% This Year

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The Bank of England warned Wednesday that inflation in Britain could hit 5 percent this year, raising the likelihood that the central bank would lift its main interest rate from the record low level at which it has stood since the depths of the financial crisis. 
The bank also said the British economy was not growing as fast as it had expected, as ''the continuing squeeze on households' real incomes is likely to weigh on demand, especially over the next year or so.''
''Although inflation fell to 4 percent in March, it remains uncomfortably high and well above the 2 percent target,'' Mervyn A. King , the central bank governor, said at a news conference in London. ''And there is a good chance that if utility prices rise further later in the year, inflation will reach 5 percent before falling back through 2012 and into 2013.''
Mr. King said that inflation was being driven primarily by higher prices for commodities and imports, as well as an increase in Britain's value-added tax. Considering the sensitivity of inflation to such factors and recent volatility in commodity prices, he said, ''there is a great deal of uncertainty in the outlook for inflation.''
The FTSE 100 slipped and the pound rose against the dollar, jumping to $1.6476 from $1.6367, on expectations that the bank would raise its main interest rate target this year from the current level of 0.5 percent, a record low, where it has stood since March 2009.
Because of increasing energy prices, consumer price inflation ''is likely to rise further this year and is more likely than not to remain above the target throughout 2012,'' the central bank said.
The latest data suggests the committee will make its first interest rate increase in the second half of 2011, possibly in August or November, Simon Hayes, an economist with Barclays Capital in London, wrote in a research note. Referring to the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee, he wrote, ''We believe most M.P.C. members will want to take the opportunity to move away from the current extremely loose policy setting, which, after all, was adopted as an emergency measure.''
The committee, Mr. Hayes wrote, ''has become increasingly uncomfortable with the fact that it keeps pushing out the point at which inflation returns to target,'' and ''the current policy setting looks increasingly unlikely to generate the necessary drop at any reasonable time horizon.''
In the 17 nations of the euro zone, prices at the consumer level rose 2.7 percent in March from a year earlier, above the European Central Bank's 2 percent target and matching the March rise in the United States.
Inflation in China is running at more than 5 percent.
The European Central Bank has already raised its main rate once this year and has signaled that another increase could come in July.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mervyn A. King of the Bank of England faulted factors like commodities prices and an increase in the value-added tax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BRITISH POUND (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); VALUE ADDED TAX (52%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



367 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Watch as She Gracefully Knocks The Fuzz Off the Tennis Ball

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
A NEW commercial for the Women's Tennis Association opens with slow-motion film of top players hitting ground strokes while wearing billowy dresses and scarves.
''What are little girls made of?'' asks a voiceover in the commercial, which was shot indoors using a high-definition digital camera. ''They're made of sugar and spice.'' Then, as top-ranked Caroline Wozniacki, wearing a black dress with spaghetti straps, hits an overhead smash, she continues, ''And sweat. And fury. And grit. And strength. That's what little girls are made of.''
The commercial, by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicon Group, closes with the tagline for the campaign: ''Strong is beautiful.'' 
The film, and photographs for print ads, are by the filmmaker and photographer Dewey Nicks, who used effects like smoke machines and tennis balls coated with clay dust and glitter that explode off balls when struck.
Other slow-motion spots focus on individual players, like Ana Ivanovic, a Serbian currently ranked No. 22, who in a 30-second spot hits a single forehand while an off-screen fan blows back her long hair and a shawl.
''During the war in Serbia, they bombed us all day and all night,'' she says in Serbian, with English subtitles. ''But if I got up early enough, I could practice before the planes came.''
In another spot Na Li, the Chinese player who is ranked No. 6, hits a two-handed backhand while the subtitles translate her voiceover. ''China is a country of 1.3 billion people,'' she says. ''Yet we've never had a No. 1 player or Grand Slam champion. No pressure.''
While Serena Williams and Venus Williams may be the best-known players in the United States and beyond, currently Serena is sidelined with health problems and is ranked at No. 17; injuries have led to Venus's ranking falling to No. 19. Earlier this month, for the first time since the inception of computer rankings nearly 40 years ago, no male or female player from the United States was ranked in the top 10.
''This is a global sport and this is about celebrating our next generation of stars,'' said Stacey Allaster , chief executive of the W.T.A.
She said the campaign aimed to convert ''peripheral fans'' who watch only a couple of major tournaments into diehards who follow the entire women's tennis tour, which includes more than 50 events.
Having players talk about their backgrounds, aspirations and drive will hook fans, Ms. Allaster said.
''Whether for a film star or a musician or an athlete, it all comes back to wanting to have an emotional connection to those performers we're inspired by,'' Ms. Allaster said. ''We think creating this more emotional connection will be able to engage fans.''
Joe Favorito, a consultant who teaches sports marketing courses at Columbia University, liked that approach.
''In this day and age, whether it's a male athlete or a female athlete, you have to sell every piece of a personality to be successful,'' said Mr. Favorito, who worked for the W.T.A. in the 1990s.
The campaign grew out of a cover assignment for an August 2010 issue of The New York Times Magazine, when Mr. Nicks was asked to photograph players and to film them for an online feature.
Mr. Nicks said his goal was to show the dancelike fluidity of the players, and that the theatrical lighting and neutral backdrops -- on indoor courts for the original assignment, and in a hospitality tent at a tournament for the advertising campaign -- helped to accentuate that.
''It fell into this really interesting theatrical exploration of the action and their bodies,'' Mr. Nicks said. ''Taking it out of the outdoor situation and the sports lighting put it much more into the realm of ballet.''
While dressing players in stylish clothing with their hair down may seem like trying to make them glamorous, Mr. Nicks said ''it was always more about showing how the body was twisting and turning and moving through space.''
Video shot for the campaign is in the same style as the film Mr. Nicks did for the magazine last year, and because the rights to that film have reverted back to him, some of it is being reused for the advertising campaign.
Stefan Copiz, the creative director for the campaign from Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, said that the ''Strong is beautiful'' tagline is not meant to convey that the players are beautiful in a conventional sense, but rather to challenge conventional notions about beauty. The commercial that subverts the ''sugar and spice'' nursery rhyme line ''serves as a manifesto'' for the campaign, Mr. Copiz said.
''The duality we picked up on in women's tennis is on the one hand they are tremendous athletes who have tremendous strength and power,'' said Mr. Copiz. ''But on the other hand they do it with such grace -- the grace of ballerinas -- and such beauty.''
The W.T.A. traces its roots to 1970, when Billie Jean King and eight other players signed contracts with Gladys Heldman, then the publisher of World Tennis magazine, and the tobacco company Philip Morris to compete in the newly formed Virginia Slims Series. In 1973, Ms. King formed the Women's Tennis Association.
In 2005, Sony Ericsson became the tour's title sponsor, in an $88 million, six-year deal, which the company extended for another two years in 2010.
Ms. Allaster, the chief executive, declined to reveal how much the new campaign cost to produce, and said that spending on placing ads was unknowable. Her organization will make the campaign available to individual tournament organizers in 33 countries, who then will decide whether to pay to place the ads.
But she said that women's tennis was thriving financially, and that the organization would soon announce two multimillion-dollar sponsorships.
''The global economy has gone backwards and women's tennis has gone forwards,'' Ms. Allaster said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new ad campaign for the Women's Tennis Association features players in a different light. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); RANKINGS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); TOURNAMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WTA TOUR PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (58%); ANA IVANOVIC (58%); SERENA WILLIAMS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



368 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Syria Shells Major City As Crackdown Spreads

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID; Reporting was contributed by Helene Cooper from Washington; Hwaida Saad and an employee of The New York Times from Beirut; Ranya Kadri from Amman, Jordan; and an employee of The Times from Damascus, Syria.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- The Syrian military intensified a methodical, ferocious march across the country's most restive locales on Wednesday, shelling the country's third-largest city from tanks, forcing hundreds to flee and detaining hundreds more in what has emerged as one of the most brutal waves of repression since the Arab Spring began.
Homs, in central Syria near the Lebanese border, has become the latest target of the crackdown, which has already besieged and silenced, for now, the cities of Dara'a, in the fertile but drought-stricken southern steppe, and Baniyas, on the Mediterranean coast. Dozens of tanks occupied Homs, as black-clad security forces, soldiers and militiamen in plain clothes filtered through the industrial city of 1.5 million people. At least 19 people were killed there Wednesday, human rights groups said.
The crackdown in some neighborhoods alternated with the relative calm in the center of a city that is home to a Sunni Muslim majority and a Christian minority. 
''We see the smoke rising in the sky after we hear the shells explode,'' said Abu Haydar, a resident reached by telephone. ''The sky was pretty quickly covered in smoke.''
In public statements and interviews, the government has acknowledged the crackdown, describing the military's targets as militant Islamists and saboteurs. It said nearly 100 soldiers and members of the security forces had been killed, and American officials say that some protesters have indeed taken up arms.
In Washington, two Obama administration officials said that the United States still did not see a clear or organized opposition or another leader in Syria who could serve to unite the foes of the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
One administration official said that some national security officials were hoping that even if Mr. Assad stayed in power, he would move away from the alliance with Iran because so many of the Sunni protesters wanted to see an end to that alliance. ''There are some who think that because of that, Assad would have to back away,'' the official said.
But he said the administration remained divided about whether Mr. Assad would actually make a break from Iran.
The Syrian news agency, which has portrayed the crackdown as the response to an armed uprising, said two soldiers were killed and nine were wounded in Homs and Dara'a.
But the sheer scope of the crackdown -- along a crescent that runs from the coast to the border with Jordan -- suggests a leadership willing to bring to bear the full force of its feared security forces, as it tries to navigate perhaps the greatest challenge to four decades of rule by the Assad family. In the past week, the government has sought to prove it has the upper hand in a conflict that has rivaled the bloodshed in Libya, now mired in what resembles a civil war.
An economy that the government has sought to modernize is reeling from the unrest, residents say, and critics warn that the government is sowing the seeds for more violence with the breadth of the killings, detentions and torture it has administered.
''The only exit the regime is offering right now is to restore the wall of fear and turn Syria into a very backward society through methods which would make it impossible for the regime to open the political system in any meaningful way,'' a Damascus-based analyst said on the condition of anonymity, given the danger of the situation there.
Though the Syrian government said it had formed a commission Wednesday to draft a new law to govern general elections, critics called it a largely cosmetic step by a government in survival mode, hewing to its own logic that it must provide an exit from the crisis to sustain its support among minorities, the middle class and the business elite.
''Can the regime bring this to a close?'' the analyst asked. ''That's the urgency felt by forces within the regime right now. They can't afford financially for this crisis to last much longer. That's why they're hitting very hard right now to make sure the protests aren't an issue, to bully them into staying home and to restore the wall of fear.'' To do so, he said, would require even more ''extreme and, most importantly, arbitrary kinds of violence.''
The shelling in Homs singled out two neighborhoods, Bab Amr and Aldubiyeh, both of which have witnessed persistent protests against the 11-year rule of Mr. Assad. Checkpoints proliferated across the city, and hundreds of residents were said to be fleeing.
Residents in Homs said that the shelling was most intense between 5 and 7 a.m. and that no one was allowed in or out of the neighborhoods, not even to collect bodies. Pharmacies and grocery stores were the only shops open there. Activists said ambulances were banned from entering, forcing people to treat the wounded in their homes.
One resident quoted neighbors as saying that they saw two helicopters join the assault.
Wissam Tarif, executive director of Insan, a Syrian human rights group, said 500 people were detained there in the past 36 hours, and residents reported that many of them were being held in a soccer stadium and a school in the city.
''It is one of the worst days,'' Mr. Tarif said. ''They're taking everyone, basically.''
Abu Omar, a resident who fled Wednesday across the Syria-Lebanon border, painted a portrait of some neighborhoods in a state of terror, administered by the security forces and plainclothes militiamen wearing bracelets to identify themselves. He said that they had lists of people who had taken part in the protests and that they were going house to house to detain them.
''It's misery there,'' he said. ''Many houses were wrecked, especially those that belonged to people who participated in the demonstrations. They're taking revenge.''
By nightfall, Syrian television declared the operations in Homs over and, on the news scroll, said that residents had showered soldiers ''with roses and rice.''
The military also deployed tanks in Hara, a town near Dara'a where demonstrations galvanized the unrest in mid-March. Mr. Tarif's group said eight people had been killed there and many had been wounded, though he had no precise number.
At least 360 people were reported to have been detained in Maadamiya and other towns on the outskirts of Damascus, joining an estimated 10,000 still in custody.
''When they go back to normalization -- and they're not thinking about it yet -- can they leave the army and the security forces in the streets forever?'' Mr. Tarif asked. ''The minute they pull back, people are going to go back into the streets.''
''This will eventually explode again,'' he added.
In Egypt and Tunisia, where the speed of revolutions contrasts with the bloody, protracted struggles in Bahrain, Yemen, Libya and Syria, the military proved decisive as an institution that could navigate a transition. Despite persistent reports of low-level defections among conscripts, Syria's elite units appear to have remained loyal.
''In Egypt, the military was semi-independent from the regime,'' said Nahed Hattar, a Jordanian political analyst in Amman. ''In Syria, it is the regime.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); DROUGHT (55%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) SYRIA (95%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



369 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Texas Bill Adds A Grain of Salt To Fish Tales

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
Telling tall tales may be a matter of pride in Texas. But it may soon be against state law to tell one about a fish.
A bill that would make it a misdemeanor -- and in some cases a felony -- to misrepresent the size, weight or provenance of a fish in a fishing tournament arrived on Gov. Rick Perry's desk on Wednesday, after passing the State Senate in a unanimous vote on Monday. 
Senator Glenn Hegar, a Republican who sponsored the bill, said it was intended to address cheating in high-level bass fishing tournaments, some of which offer tens of thousands of dollars in prizes. In one notorious case in 2009, an angler who entered the Bud Light Trail Big Bass Tournament on Lake Ray Hubbard, east of Dallas, put a one-pound lead weight inside the stomach of the 10.49-pound bass he had entered to win the grand prize, a $55,000 fishing boat.
''Some people are literally taking scissors and cutting off the tail of a fish to make it fit into a certain category,'' Mr. Hegar said. ''Unfortunately, they're not playing by the rules.''
He said he had taken his share of ribbing from colleagues, who suggested he was sponsoring the bill because he had lost out in a fishing tournament. ''The harassment has been pretty deep over this one,'' he said, adding that he fishes only recreationally.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Perry, Katherine Cessinger, said the governor would make a decision about signing the legislation ''as soon as he reviews it in its final form.''
Many anglers are happy with the bill, which extends existing fishing laws to include saltwater as well as freshwater tournaments and adds the provisions about misrepresentation. A violation would be a Class A misdemeanor, unless the tournament prize offered was more than $10,000, in which case it would be a third-degree felony, punishable by 2 to 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $10,000.
Tommy Hagler, a fishing guide who operates out of Abilene, said cheating in tournaments had ''gotten out of hand'' because of the large prizes and a difficult economy.
''I think it's just people who are trying anything to get through this tough time, and trying to survive,'' he said.
Mr. Hagler, who said he is known as Tommy the Hag, said he himself never lied about the size of a fish -- his largest catch was a 11.62-pounder, he said -- and in fact, once shorted himself by two pounds.
''In this business, you've got to tell the truth the whole time and all the time tell the truth,'' he said.
But Steve Schmidt, another fishing guide who works on Richland Chambers Reservoir, south of Dallas, said that tall fish tales told by tourists, who were not involved with tournaments, were probably acceptable.
''Everybody is just telling stories, that's fishing,'' he said. ''But to cheat, that's another thing. That's just not right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT FISHING (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FISHES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FELONIES (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



370 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Panel Urges Germany to Close Nuclear Plants by 2021

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Germany should close all of its nuclear power plants by 2021 and rely entirely on other forms of energy, according to a committee appointed by Chancellor Angela Merkel in the wake of the Fukushima Daiichi disaster in Japan.
The recommendations, which have not been made public, will go to a panel of specialists meeting in a closed session in Berlin this weekend. Mrs. Merkel said this week that Germany would certainly end its reliance on nuclear energy, and that the only question was how long nuclear would be needed as a ''bridge technology'' until other forms of energy could meet the country's needs. 
Nuclear energy provides 22.6 percent of Germany's electricity, according to the Energy Ministry. Coal supplies more than 42 percent; natural gas, 13.6 percent; and renewable sources like wind and solar, 16.5 percent. Other sources provide the rest.
Not even Japan, site of the nuclear disaster that followed an earthquake and tsunami in March, plans to abandon nuclear power. Prime Minister Naoto Kan said on Tuesday that Japan would scrap plans to build 14 more nuclear reactors while the government re-evaluated its energy policies. Nuclear energy provides 30 percent of Japan's electricity.
Germany's move away from nuclear energy is being closely watched by environmental groups and other European governments, particularly those in Central and Eastern Europe that plan to develop or expand nuclear power production.
''At the moment, there is really a mixed picture in responding to the Japanese disaster by countries that have nuclear power,'' said Serge Gas, a spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Agency, part of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
While Russia, Britain, France and Poland have said they will leave their nuclear energy policies largely unchanged, Italy and Switzerland have stopped development of new reactors. Germany, which has a strong antinuclear movement that cuts across the political spectrum, has gone the furthest in reacting to the Fukushima accident.
According to the World Nuclear Association, an industry group, 440 nuclear reactors operate in 31 countries, producing about 15 percent of the world's electricity. The association said more than 60 plants were being built in 15 countries, notably Russia, China and South Korea.
Germany has 17 reactors; six are boiling water reactors, which is the design used at Fukushima, and 11 use pressurized water. The United States has 104 operating reactors, of which 35 are boiling water reactors and 69 are pressurized water.
Big German energy companies, including RWE and E.ON, have warned that the rapid withdrawal of nuclear power could spell disaster for the economy, lead to electricity shortages and turn the country into a net importer of energy.
But the so-called Ethics Commission appointed by Mrs. Merkel said that rather than being damaged by the abandonment of nuclear power, the German economy could benefit from the reduction of energy use and the development of alternative power sources.
The commission is led by a conservative, Klaus Topfer, a former environment minister and former executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, and Matthias Kleiner, president of the German Research Foundation. The 22 panel members were drawn from the energy industry and nongovernmental organizations.
''A withdrawal from nuclear power will spur growth, offer enormous technical, economic and social opportunities to position Germany even further as an exporter of sustainable products and services,'' said the panel's 28-page report, which was seen by The International Herald Tribune. ''Germany could show that a withdrawal from nuclear energy is the chance to create a high-powered economy.''
But while citing the economic benefits of a withdrawal from nuclear power, the commission emphasized that Germany's 17 nuclear plants should be closed for safety reasons. ''The withdrawal is necessary to fundamentally eliminate risks,'' it said.
The commission also said it would be unacceptable for Germany to ration electricity, import power from nuclear plants in other countries or increase carbon dioxide emissions. ''There is an ethical responsibility to combat climate change,'' it said.
The commission acknowledged that it was not possible to greatly accelerate the development of renewable energy. Instead, it recommended measures, including reducing energy use by as much as 60 percent and developing cleaner technologies for coal-fired power plants.
Only last year, Mrs. Merkel overturned a decision by a previous Social Democratic-Green government to close Germany's nuclear plants by 2022, instead allowing the newer reactors to operate well into the 2030s.
She quickly changed her mind in March, as the damage to the Fukushima Daiichi plant became apparent. She ordered seven of Germany's power plants to be temporarily closed, instituted a moratorium on construction of new reactors, ordered an intensive review of security and safety measures, and appointed the Ethics Commission.
She announced the decision days before regional elections in southwestern Germany, where the Greens soundly defeated the governing conservatives.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters with flags reading ''Nuclear Power? No Thanks'' in April at the Biblis nuclear plant in Germany, one of 17 such plants a German panel recommends closing for safety reasons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS LOHNES/DAPD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TSUNAMIS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); ETHICS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: E.ON SE (58%)

TICKER: EOAN (FRA) (58%); EOAN (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%); NAOTO KAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%) GERMANY (96%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011



371 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Buying Influence at Universities

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: As some schools become more desperate for money, some donors are attaching more strings to their gifts. 

 BODY:
Over the years there have been concerns about donors' subtle influence at universities. Professors might be reluctant to research gas taxes, for example, if the building they work in is named after Chevron.
As schools become more desperate for money, though, donors are finding opportunities to become more directly influential.
The St. Petersburg Times reported on Tuesday that Charles G. Koch, one of the billionaire brothers at Koch Industries, has pledged $1.5 million to Florida State University to be used for hiring in the economics department. In exchange, his representatives get to "screen and sign off on" the hires.
Another philanthropist is using donations to shape classroom curricula. Bloomberg reported that John Allison, the former chairman of the banking company BB&T, is working through the company's foundation to give schools grants up to $2 million. The condition is that they must agree to create a course on capitalism that has "Atlas Shrugged" on the reading list.
The article reports that 60 schools, including at least four campus of the University of North Carolina, have begun teaching the book as a result of accepting the foundation money.
Are the strings attached to these gifts too stringent?
One could argue that such conditions compromise academic freedom, and allow the education of today's impressionable youth to be dictated by the highest bidder. But colleges are not required to accept these gifts. If they found the conditions truly objectionable -- or at least if their objections outweighed the additional good the money could do -- they could always graciously decline the money.
As an aside, donors frequently complain that the balance of power usually tilts too far in the opposite direction: that donors usually have too little say in determining how their money gets spent, whether at educational institutions or other nonprofits.
There was the Robertson case at Princeton, for example, in which the heirs to the A.&P. grocery fortune argued that Princeton was not adequately using their family's gift to promote public service, as it had been intended. More recently, in January, the University of Connecticut made headlines after a donor asked for his $7 million gift back because the school had not included him in its search for a new football coach.
What do you think?

        
Shame as a Philanthropic Motivator
        
Estate Tax Hiatus Could Reduce Charitable Bequests
        
What We're Reading...
        
Raising Money, One Touchdown at a Time
        
How Worrisome Is Student Debt?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%) charities; charity; higher education; Colleges and Universities; Philanthropy

COMPANY: KOCH INDUSTRIES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN A ALLISON IV (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



372 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Losing Custody Because She Has Cancer

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A North Carolina woman is ordered to send her children to their father in Chicago because a judge fears she will become too ill to care for them. 

 BODY:
King Solomon's choice was easy compared with the one faced by the North Carolina judge Nancy E. Gordon. The custody dispute before her recently was between Alaina Giordano and her ex-husband, Kane Snyder, and the fight was over whether their children -- 11-year-old Sofia and 5-year-old Bud -- should live with their mother, in Durham, or their father, in Chicago.
Ms. Giordano, a freelance writer and editor, has been fighting Stage 4 breast cancer for four and a half years now, and while it has metastasized to her bones, court records show that her monthly treatments have kept her condition "stable and not progressing." Mr. Snyder, who was divorced from Ms. Giordano after her diagnosis, recently moved away from his family to take a job as an executive at Sears Holding, Inc. He asked the court to grant him sole custody, arguing that he was the parent with a paycheck, and that his ex was too sick -- and her future too uncertain -- for the children to stay with her. She accused him of being abusive and unfaithful during their marriage, and says that sending the children to Chicago would deprive her of her kids when she most needs them, would separate her children from her at a time when they most need her, and would discriminate against her because she has cancer. 
Two weeks ago, Judge Gordon ruled in favor of Mr. Snyder. Since then the case has been building to a full social media boil. Ms. Giordano has started a blog. There is a Facebook page, "Alaina Giordano Should Not Lose Her Kids Because She Has Breast Cancer", with over 12,000 members. Ms. Giordano's sister has created an online petition, "Do Not Allow NC Judge to Take Alaina Giordano's Children Just Because She Has Cancer,"that has more than 10,000 signatures. A newer petition, "Throw North Carolina Judge Nancy Gordon Off the Bench," had nearly 500 last I checked.
The breast cancer and women-blogger communities have rallied behind Ms. Giordano, arguing that if the case stands, and the children are sent to live with their father on June 17, it will set a precedent that a breast cancer diagnosis can be grounds for losing custody. Legal scholars have stepped in, noting that the physical and emotional health of a parent has always been a factor used by courts in making these decisions.
Couldn't Mr. Snyder simply move back to North Carolina so the children could remain with their mother but have him be more of a consistent presence in their lives, fostering familiarity that will be comforting should Ms. Giordano's health decline?
He says no. Not given the unemployment rate in the current economy.
Could Ms. Giordano move to Chicago? That is what the judge suggested in her ruling, but anyone who proposes this option has never been treated for cancer, argues Emily Cousins, in an essay on yesterday's Huffington Post:Theoretically, Ms. Giordano could also relocate to Chicago, but in her interview with Matt Lauer, she explained that her Stage IV disease is being held in check thanks to the incredible medical team she has found at Duke University.
Think of the inconvenience you might have felt when your insurance company made you switch dentists or therapists. Now imagine you had to leave the group of doctors who are literally keeping you alive. Cancer patients develop deep bonds with the people who guide us through the minefield of treatment options, side effects, and recurrences. I referred to my team of oncologists and surgeons as "the mothership," and I refused to move away from them for five years after my diagnosis. I only felt safe leaving them then because my disease had not spread like Giordano's has.So he won't/can't move here, she won't/can't move there, and the children face the possibility of living with their ill mother until, heaven forbid, she passes away, when they will be sent to their father who they no longer really know, OR being yanked from their mother now, which will probably feel like abandoning her, so they can worry about her health from hundreds of miles away.
Not even "cutting the baby in half" would solve this one.
What is a judge to do?

        
Custody of Your Child if You Die
        
Breast Feeding and Weight Loss
        
Who Should Have Custody of Baby Emma?
        
Should a Quadriplegic Mom Have Custody?
        
Deciding Sean Goldman's Fate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); CANCER (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PETITIONS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); WRITERS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); HOLDING COMPANIES (53%) Breast Cancer; custody; Child Custody and Support

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



373 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: How Lowering the Cap for U.S.-Backed Mortgages Will Affect Home Buyers

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: How lower limits on federally backed loans may affect a borrower's payments. 

 BODY:
The approaching end of federal guarantees for very expensive mortgages is worrying potential home buyers - and sellers - in high-cost markets. Will they be able to get financing? How much more will they have to pay for that financing?
The limits on mortgages that can be backed by the federal government were raised in 2008 to ease the pain of the housing debacle in areas with high home prices. (Without government backing, many lenders would have refused to finance such loans when the housing bubble burst.) But the current higher limits are due to expire Sept. 30 unless Congress acts to extend them. 
Groups like the National Association of Realtorsare lobbying to extend the higher caps, arguing that removing them might cause further declines in home values, given the still-fragile housing market. But, as The Times reported Wednesday, that idea is meeting resistance from both Democrats and Republicans, who think it's time for the private market, not taxpayers, to bear the risk of very big mortgages.
The impact of the coming change is expected to be felt well before Oct. 1, since most loans take more than a month to close. That means borrowers may confront the new criteria as early as this summer. To help put the change in perspective, Bucks asked Cameron Findlay, chief economist at Lendingtree, to outline a hypothetical example of a borrower who could be affected by the lower limits.
First, some background. Before the housing crisis mushroomed in 2008, the limit for a government-insured loan was $417,000 nationally. Loans above that amount were considered "nonconforming" or "jumbo" loans, in mortgage lingo, and carried a higher interest rate to reflect their higher risk. That loan limit still applies in most of the country, and borrowers seeking loans below that amount shouldn't be directly affected by the coming change. But for the last three years, the formula used raised the limit to as much as $729,750 in areas with high median home prices. The move created a new tier of loans that were eligible for government backing but, in practice, still subject to slightly higher interest rates.
Now, a change in the formula that takes effect Oct. 1 will lower the maximum to $625,500. The change is expected to be felt especially hard in high-priced markets on the coasts, including California, New York, New Jersey and Washington. (For a detailed explanation of the formula and a rundown of its impact on various counties, see this report from the Federal Housing Finance Administration.)
Now, let's consider the impact on Mr. Findlay's borrower. Say "Joe Homebuyer" seeks a $700,000 loan today for a house in an upscale neighborhood. The loan amount falls between the "baseline" limit of $417,000 and the current maximum of $729,750. That makes it a "conforming jumbo" loan, in the latest lender parlance. Such loans carry a premium of about 0.10 percentage point over the going interest rate of 4.75 percent. So Joe's rate today would be 4.85 percent, which translates into $42 more a month.
Here's what happens after Oct. 1. Joe's loan is still $700,000, but it's over the new $625,500 maximum. It's now a "true jumbo" - ineligible for federal backing - and subject to a higher premium of 0.60 percentage point, making the interest rate 5.35 percent. That's a stiff $257 more each month over the going rate.
So in the end, Joe ends end up paying $215 more ($257 minus $42) per month under the new rules.
Mr. Findlay noted that all sorts of factors could affect an actual borrower's interest rate, including his credit score and debt-to-income ratio. And the premium for jumbo loans, for example, could rise higher than 60 basis points, depending on the mortgage market. In the midst of the housing crisis, it was more than double that. "It can be substantial when the market is in turmoil," he said.
Do you think the higher loan limits should be extended? Are you concerned about selling your home, or getting a mortgage to buy one, if the limits are not extended?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%) Mortgages; Personal Finances; California; New Jersey; New York City; Washington (DC)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) California; New Jersey; New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



374 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: Oil Executives Lash Out Against Subsidy Cuts

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: "By undermining U.S. competitiveness, they would discourage future investment in energy projects in the United States and therefore undercut job creation and economic growth," ExxonMobil's top executive says. 

 BODY:
Oil company executives pushed back against calls for cuts in tax subsidies benefiting the industry in morning testimony before the Senate Finance Committee. Exxon Mobil's chief executive argued that the proposed tax changes would discourage future investment in energy projects.

        
Round Up the Usual C.E.O.'s
        
Senate Opens Hearing on Oil and Gas Subsidies
        
The Sustainable Prince
        
Obama Again Demands an End to Oil Tax Breaks
        
In Texas, Questions of Drought and Climate Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); JOB CREATION (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); CLIMATOLOGY (84%) oil industry; Senate Finance Committee; subsidies; tax breaks; Breaking News; Business; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



375 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Curtain Up: Broadway-Set 'Smash' Gets a Spot on NBC's Roster

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY and DAVE ITZKOFF


HIGHLIGHT: NBC has picked up the musical comedy "Smash," about the making of a Broadway show, for the 2011-12 television season. 

 BODY:
3:26 p.m. | Updated 
Good news for New York theater actors (and Playbill collectors worldwide): NBC has picked up the musical comedy "Smash," about the making of a Broadway show, for the 2011-12 television season, according to an executive involved with the new series.
With Steven Spielberg attached as a creator and executive producer, "Smash" also has several theater heavyweights already on board, including the playwright Theresa Rebeck (Broadway's "Mauritius," Off Broadway's "Understudy"); the songwriting team of Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman (Broadway's "Catch Me if You Can," "Hairspray"); and the Tony-winning director Michael Mayer ("Spring Awakening"), who oversaw the pilot and is expected to direct other episodes. The show is likely to be filmed in New York, meaning a good deal of cameo and guest appearances and extra work for actors in the city.
"Most excited are the unemployed," Mr. Shaiman said in a joint telephone interview with Mr. Wittman on Thursday afternoon. Mr. Wittman added: "It's going to be 'Law and Order' for Broadway."
Mr. Shaiman countered: "I got an email this morning from literally everyone in the theatrical community. Including two or three that I thought were dead." 
NBC was still deciding if "Smash" would have its debut in the fall (when dozens of shows have premieres) or in early 2012. A later start would presumably give the creators more time to write songs and stage Broadway-style production numbers, as well as provide a wintertime spotlight that would not be as crowded with new shows.
Mr. Shaiman and Mr. Wittman said the fictional musical being produced on "Smash" would be about Marilyn Monroe, and the series itself will focus on the musical's creation - from the original idea to opening night - while also chronicling the interior lives of its characters. 
The composers said the songs on the show may emerge from the Marilyn Monroe musical or directly from the characters in their day-to-day experiences. "You'll have to tune in to see," Mr. Wittman said. "We're certainly playing with the form."
The "Smash" pilot, which was produced this spring, stars Debra Messing (a theater-trained actress and an Emmy winner for NBC's "Will & Grace") as a lyricist. Christian Borle, most recently seen off Broadway in "Peter and the Starcatcher," plays a gay composer who is Ms. Messing's songwriting partner; Jack Davenport ("Pirates of the Caribbean") is the musical's director; the film actress Anjelica Huston plays its producer; Brian d'Arcy James (Broadway's "Time Stands Still," "Shrek the Musical") plays Ms. Messing's husband; and Megan Hilty (Broadway's "Wicked") and Katharine McPhee ("American Idol") are actresses competing for the Marilyn role.
Though he is not prone to getting excited about career opportunities (or anything else, really), Mr. Shaiman said: "Even my depressed Jewish self -"
"His Eeyore self," Mr. Wittman interrupted.
"-I had one moment, it was around 10 seconds-" Mr. Shaiman continued.
"He went, 'Wheee!" Mr. Wittman interrupted again. 
Mr. Shaiman concluded: "And then quickly threw myself back into the underground bungalow."

        
The Oracle of Omaha Comes to Scranton: Warren Buffett to Appear on 'Office' Finale
        
Fox, With 'Idol,' Leads the Pack
        
'The Office' Helps NBC, but Can't Save It
        
Premiere of 'The Voice' Speaks Loudly in TV Ratings
        
'Friday Night Lights' Watch: The Final Season on NBC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); SONG WRITING (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%) NBC; Smash; Television; Theater

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



376 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Council Votes to Raise Fines for Recalcitrant Cabbies

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY


HIGHLIGHT: Drivers would face tougher penalties for refusing to take passengers anywhere in the five boroughs or for overcharging them. 

 BODY:
Taxi drivers are about to face even stiffer fines for refusing to take passengers based on their destinations.
The City Council voted unanimously on Wednesday to approve legislation that raises the penalties for cabbies who refuse to take a passenger to any destination in the five boroughs, charges a higher fare than the standards set by the Taxi and Limousine Commission, or asks passengers of their destinations before they enter the cab.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is expected to sign the bill, which would raise the fine for a first-time offender to as much as $500. Second-time offenses within a two-year period could result in a $1,000 fine. Drivers who have more offenses than that would risk losing their licenses. 
City Council members said the legislation should help protect many New Yorkers who have regularly been denied cabs in the past.
"As a woman of color who has been refused service by city cabdrivers from time to time over the years," said Councilwoman Deborah Rose, who helped sponsor the legislation, "it is my hope that raising fines would deter the 'bad apple' cabdrivers who illegally refuse or overcharge passengers."
The legislation also aimed to protect visitors to New York City. Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn highlighted the "visitors from around the world" who have been rejected or swindled by the city's taxi drivers.
"While most of these drivers provide honest, quality service, this bill will make any driver think twice about denying or overcharging passengers," she said in a statement.
But the legislation quickly raised practical concerns among the city's taxi drivers, who are already dealing with increased fuel prices, repair costs and the threat of other summonses.
Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, said she was "deeply disappointed" with the passage of the legislation. She pointed out that sometimes taxi drivers refuse passengers because they have to return their taxi at a certain time because their shift ends. She also feared that independent medallion owners' contractors who are taken off the road would grow "closer to poverty, given already low wages and lack of unemployment insurance or other safety nets."

        
The Taxi of Tomorrow Is Down to 3 Choices
        
Want to Share a Cab, With a Stranger?
        
Cabbies Say No as the Camera Is Rolling
        
Taxi Panel Focuses on Destination Discrimination
        
Passengers Speak Out in Taxi Survey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) cabbies; cabdrivers; cabs; fines; Taxi and Limousine Commission; taxicabs; Fines (Penalties); Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; New York Taxi Workers Alliance; New York City; City Hall; Highlights; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: New York Taxi Workers Alliance; Taxi and Limousine Commission

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



377 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Why Austin, Tex., Is a Good Place for Small Businesses

BYLINE: MP MUELLER


HIGHLIGHT: Of course, it's important for the long-term success of any entity - city or small business - to not buy into its own public relations. 

 BODY:
Recently, Austin was ranked No. 1 in "small-business vitality" for the second year in a row in a survey by the American City Business Journals.
Texas's capital city scored high points for its quality of life, business environment and healthy residents. Last July, Kiplinger named Austin one of the "10 Best Cities for the Next Decade." Yes, it's true that most of the rest of Texas thinks of Austin as that place full of crazy liberals, but we'll take that (we don't understand why they insist on starching their jeans).
As a 25-year Austin resident who has also lived in Washington, Denver, Dallas and Corpus Christi, Tex., (the coastal city where I grew up), I have some theories on how Austin -- a place where mandals and cowboy boots find common ground -- has managed to do so well on the small-business front. I also canvassed a few of my fellow residents.
Austin, according to Dr. George Gau, former dean of the University of Texas's McCombs School of Business, is a hotbed in large part because of urban economics. He apologized for the "nerdy" explanation, but said it boiled down to primary employers like Samsung and the university, which support service businesses like restaurants, dry cleaners, law offices, real estate agencies, etc. Depending on the salaries paid to workers in the primary sector, each primary worker generates two or three service workers. "EBay recently announced they plan to hire 1,000 workers in Austin over the next 10 years," he said. "That will translate into 2,000 to 3,000 service jobs being added here. All of the factors that cause large firms to relocate to Austin -- business climate, skilled work force, beauty, weather, etc. -- lead to the creation of more small businesses."
Sonia Gaillard who owns Nventia Ventures, a company that works with entrepreneurs to get their products into the market, said Austin was an incubator. "We have a vibrant funding community, which a lot of cities lack, even if they have the innovation," she said. "And we have a plethora of successful entrepreneurs who are open to mentoring others along their entrepreneurial journey." For example, Austin is home to RISE, a week-long, free "un-conference" for entrepreneurs that was started in 2007 by Roy and Bertrand Sosa, brothers and entrepreneurs. RISE is now an ongoing annual program that provides resources and experience to entrepreneurs worldwide.
If Austin were one big corporation, the organization chart would be flat. In the '60s and '70s, people came to school here and, because of the nature, outdoor lifestyle and music scene, decided to stay -- preferring $1 long-neck nights listening to Jerry Jeff Walker at the Armadillo World Headquarters to earning a fat paycheck and merging into traffic and responsibility back in Dallas or Houston.
When I arrived in 1986, I knew two people -- dorm mates from college years. One of them introduced me to someone in advertising and he graciously consented to give me a courtesy interview. I remember sitting on the couch in Karl Rove's office and watching him swing a phantom golf club while he talked to me about Austin and where to look for gainful employment. Yes, Austin is known as a liberal city, but it has pockets of red.
Two years ago, ad executive, Nancy Giordano, moved to Austin from Los Angeles, and within 12 months she had organized and started TEDx Austin with Jen Spencer. The idea-sharing conference had a waiting list its first year, leaving me wondering how an outsider could come into another city and pull together such an amazing gathering of thinkers and leaders. Ms. Giordano had grown up in Atlanta, and her career took her to New York City for seven years, Chicago for three and Los Angeles for 13, where she worked for Chiat Day, the ad agency, before starting her own consulting firm, Play Big, Inc.
I asked her what about the Austin culture made this doable. "There is this circle and a current that runs between the community's business pillars that helps people do their thing," she said. "There's a real desire here to help people manifest whatever success they want to create. I think that's because people are really happy. There is no sense of, 'you win, I lose.' Here it's, 'you win, I win.'"
Of course, it's important for the long-term success of any entity - city or small business - to not buy into its own public relations. Sure, enjoy the accolades, but continue to focus on the road ahead and planning for the future -- or else you risk getting covered with the dust of those moving past you.
MP Mueller is the founder of Door Number 3, a boutique advertising agency in Austin, Tex. Follow Door Number 3 on Facebook.

        
Arriving Late at the Social Media Party
        
Do P.R. People Have to Like the Food?
        
The Problem With Public Relations
        
Gone Fishing!
        
Trying to Sell Fish for Christmas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RANKINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); RELOCATIONS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); LEGAL SERVICES (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Austin; public relations; Entrepreneurship; Relocation of Business; Small Business; Samsung Group; University of Texas; Austin (Tex); Branded

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%) Samsung Group; University of Texas

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Austin (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



378 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Gloom and Doom, and How to Profit From It

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: Big investors gathered at the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas to hear how "the West is bankrupt and failing, and it's just a matter of when," as one panelist put it. 

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- The panel's name said it all: "Investing for the End of the World: How to Profit From Economic Armageddon."
Panelists took turns offering their dire assessments of the West, the culprits being the usual suspects: too much debt, fiscal irresponsibility, energy crises, etc.
The morose subject matter at the Salt Conference, as the SkyBridge Alternatives Conference is known, offered a stark contrast to the event location -- the Bellagio Hotel, replete with world-class art and ceilings of rare designer glass set amid the general excess of Las Vegas.
John H. Burbank III, the chief investment officer of Passport Capital, a $4 billion hedge fund, started things off. "The West is bankrupt and failing, and it's just a matter of when," he told the crowd assembled in the hotel's grand ballroom.
He noted the problem of resource scarcity and how the markets had not prepared the world for the investment needed to deal with it.
Mr. Burbank also took a bit of a shot at asset managers, decrying crowding in the marketplace and how it distorts price. That means when bad things happen and investors move in tandem, there is an element of unpredictability.
"Information and stability can change so quickly," he said.
Of course, the panel demanded such talk, and everyone seemed to relish it. The talk turned to how to hedge against such events, which can be expensive and difficult to orchestrate.
Especially, as Robert Sinnott, the chief executive of Kayne Anderson Capital Advisors, put it, when the markets seem like "a pond with black swans interbreeding and laughing at us."
One thing there seemed to be little talk of was specific investment strategies.
But it hardly mattered. The purpose of the panel had been achieved.
"Well, we've finally got a really grim view of the world," said the moderator, Zachary Karabell, president of River Twice Research.

        
A Fund Manager's Message Beyond the 'Pinata'
        
Still Stuck in Denial on Wall St.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%) Bellagio Hotel; John Burbank; Kayne Anderson Capital Advisors; Passport Capital; River Twice Research; Robert Sinnott; Salt Conference; Skybridge Alternatives Conference; SkyBridge Capital; Zachary Karabell; Karabell, Zachary; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Private Equity; Top Headline 2

PERSON: Karabell, Zachary

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



379 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Building Wealth Through Renting

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A Fed economist's study offers a rebuttal to the conventional wisdom that owning a home is building equity for your future, while renting is money wasted. 

 BODY:
You have probably heard a version of the idea that renting a house is tantamount to flushing money down the toilet, while buying a home is building equity for your future. Well, it's wrong, at least much of the time. 
You don't have to listen only to me on this point. Here is Jordan Rappaport, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, in a paper published last year: 
Conventional wisdom has long suggested that homeownership is an effective way to build household wealth. Consistent with this belief, homeownership is often considered to be a key part of the American Dream....
[Yet the] analysis in this article shows that while homeownership often builds more household wealth than renting and investing the saved cash flow, it also often does not. More specifically, for most ten-year occupancies beginning during the 1970s and 1990s, homeownership unambiguously built more wealth. In contrast, for most occupancies beginning during the 1980s, renting and investing unambiguously built more wealth. Renting and investing is also likely to build more wealth than homeownership for many of the occupancies that started in 2000 through 2009. These results suggest that either homeownership or renting and investing can be reasonable strategies for building household wealth. In other words, the conventional wisdom that homeownership is usually the better strategy is probably too strong. For many households in many years, renting and investing the saved cash flow has built more wealth than homeownership...
[Emphasis added.]
I also had a nice exchange yesterday with a reader on this issue. He asked:
As a soon-to-be first time homebuyer [in Manhattan] still debating the merits of renting vs. buying, the idea of throwing tens of thousands of dollars in rent down a hole for the next few years is very unappealing -- that is, when the alternative is to pay a bit more each month in mortgage fees and taxes, but to at least have substantial equity at the end of the day. Am I thinking about this too simplistically?
I replied:
Yes, building equity is a good thing. But the advantages of it are exaggerated. For one thing, how do you know you'll be building equity, as opposed to making an investment that will lose money? People who bought in Florida, Las Vegas, Phoenix and much of inland California in 2006 thought they would be building equity. I interviewed some of them. But they did not. In many cases, they lost all of their equity. There is definitely some downside risk in the New York market today. Second, by buying a house, you're making a decision to tie up your capital in a specific sector -- real estate. It's entirely possible that the money you spent on a down payment would have earned more money in the stock market, for instance. Finally, buying also involves throwing thousands of dollars down a hole: in mortgage fees and interest, in property taxes, in repairs and renovations, in tens of thousands of dollars of closing costs. Renting doesn't involve the huge up-front costs that buying does. Owning also involves some continuing costs (e.g. repairs) that renting does not. Living somewhere is always going to involve costs, just as education, health care and food involve costs. Financially, the decision to buy is basically a decision that your investment will increase in value by an amount sufficient to make up for all the additional costs of buying. (Put it this way: you'd never buy an apartment if you were staying in a city for just a week, in an effort to build equity. You'd rent -- a hotel room.) Sometimes -- often -- the decision to buy works out. But it does not work out far more often than is commonly understood. 

        
Is Another Housing Crash Coming?
        
Rent vs. Buy, a Longer List
        
The Banks Run an Experiment
        
Seattle's Foreseeable Housing Bust
        
Buy vs. Rent: An Update

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%) housing; Jordan; rent vs. buy; Housing and Real Estate; Renting and Leasing; Rappaport, Jordan

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



380 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Glencore to Emerge From Shadows With I.P.O.

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: It remains to be seen whether Glencore can make the transition from a commodities dealer that thrives on secrecy to a transparent public company that must report its finances. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Tucked away in a small village about 30 minutes from Zurich, Glencore International has grown from a small, secretive trading firm into one of the biggest buyers, sellers and producers of commodities in the last three decades. Behind the scenes, Glencore touches most basic resources, like sugar in coffee and the wires in cellphones.
Now, the commodities giant is stepping into the public eye for the first time, with a stock offering set for May 24 that could raise $11 billion. The hotly anticipated debut, which would be the world's largest so far this year, values the company at $61 billion and will significantly increase the personal wealth of the 485 senior employees who currently own Glencore.
The initial public offering represents an important evolution in Glencore. The company - which handles the physical supply of 3 percent of the world's daily oil consumption, as well as owning mines, refineries and drill rigs - is jumping into the markets amid a commodities boom that some worry has reached its peak.
But some investors question whether Glencore will be able to move beyond its shadowy past, which includes dealings with rogue states. It also remains to be seen whether Glencore can make the transition from a commodities dealer working in secrecy to a transparent public company that has to regularly report its finances. In its prospectus, it lists "fraud and corruption" among the top risks for its trading operation.
"There are some areas you don't get too much clarity on," Egon Vavrek, a fund manager at LGT Capital Management in Switzerland, said.
The offering documents provide a rare, albeit limited, glimpse into how the company operates and its vast influence on the commodities market. Glencore - whose nondescript headquarters are in the Swiss canton of Zug, known for its low tax rates - controls 60 percent of the third-party zinc market and 20 percent to 40 percent of alumina, thermal coal and cobalt. Glencore's largest shareholder is its South African chief executive, Ivan Glasenberg, whose 15.8 percent stake would be valued at $9.6 billion in the share sale.
A spokesman for Glencore declined repeated interview requests, citing financial regulations in the United States against comment before the listing.
Glencore was started in 1974 by the commodities trader Marc Rich. Mr. Rich - who fled to Switzerland following tax evasion charges and was later pardoned by President Bill Clinton - famously made his money through risky deals, including buying oil in postrevolution Iran and selling it to Israel.
In the 1980s, Glencore started to expand beyond trading activities, buying a stake in a Peruvian zinc mine and other commodity assets. To gain a competitive edge, Mr. Rich forged strong relationships with business and political leaders in countries with large commodity reserves that were deemed too dangerous or corrupt by others, said Daniel Ammann, author of "The King of Oil: The Secret Lives of Marc Rich."
The strategy continued after a group of managers, including Mr. Glasenberg, bought the company from Mr. Rich for about $600 million in 1994. Mr. Glasenberg had joined Glencore 10 years earlier, originally sourcing coal in apartheid-era South Africa. By the time he took over as chief executive in 2002, Glencore's investments in mines and other physical assets earned a large chunk of its profit.
"Glencore goes for early stage or undiscovered areas where value is best and price is lowest," Timothy Huff, a director in equity research at RBC Capital Markets, said. "Price is lowest because perceived risk is highest."
Mr. Ammann added: "If there was a strike in Guinea, Glencore would be the first to know about it and be able to exploit it."
Such tactics proved controversial. A 2004 report published on the Central Intelligence Agency's Web site cited records that claimed Glencore had paid $3.2 million in illegal surcharges to Iraq, under Saddam Hussein, for oil outside the United Nations oil-for-food program. The company denied the allegations at the time.
Over all, Glencore's appetite for risk paid off. In 1997, Glencore bought a stake in Kazzinc, a zinc producer, from Kazakhstan at a time when that company was suffering from bad management and corruption. The investment not only helped increase production, it reduced unemployment in the region, making it popular with the government.
A decade later, Glencore was the only company willing to lend to Katanga Mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which was desperate for cash after the price of copper slumped amid the financial crisis. Once the market recovered, Glencore reaped big profits.
Glencore generates the bulk of its $6.1 billion profit from its industrial assets, including a 34.5 percent stake in Xstrata, another Swiss mining company.
"Over many decades, we have developed Glencore into an unrivaled global integrated commodity producer and marketer," Mr. Glasenberg told potential investors in April. "An I.P.O. is the next logical step."

        
Fervor Roils Markets as Companies Beat a Path to Go Public
        
Glencore Chief Says Listing Is 'Imminent'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COAL MARKETS (78%); ZINC MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); TAX FRAUD (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) Glencore; Glencore International; Ivan Glasenberg; Marc Rich; Glasenberg, Ivan; Rich, Marc; Commodities; Initial Public Offerings; Glencore International AG; Basic Industries; Energy/Utilities; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (92%); LGT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Glencore International AG

TICKER: GLEN (LSE) (92%); 0805 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (92%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (66%) Glasenberg, Ivan; Rich, Marc

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (90%) ZUG, SWITZERLAND (58%) SWITZERLAND (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



381 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman's Positions on Gay Rights Are Within the G.O.P. Mainstream

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Jon M. Hunstman Jr.'s views on gay rights are very close to those of the typical Republican voter - closer than those of someone like Tim Pawlenty. 

 BODY:
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. has a number of hurdles to overcome if he is to become the Republican nominee for president -- including his service in President Obama's administration as ambassador to China and his comparatively liberal positions on several issues.
But Mr. Huntsman's positions on gay rights -- while to the left of most of his opponents -- are likely to be among the least of his concerns. In fact, Mr. Hunstman's views on gay rights are very close to those of the typical Republican voter -- closer than those of someone like Tim Pawlenty.
In 2009, Mr. Hunstman endorsed civil unions as an alternative to gay marriage. He is perhaps the most noteworthy potential Republican candidate to have done so, although the libertarian-leaning Gary Johnson shares his position, and a minor candidate, Fred Karger, supports full marriage rights for gay and lesbian couples.
(Several major Republican candidates, including Mr. Pawlenty, Mike Huckabee, Mitch Daniels and Michele Bachmann, explicitly oppose both civil unions and gay marriage, according to research compiled by the liberal-leaning Center for American Progress Action Fund. Others, like Sarah Palin and Mitt Romney, are expressly opposed to gay marriage, but have ambiguous positions on civil unions.)
Mr. Hunstman's position is routinely referred to as a liability by political columnists. The polling, however, presents another view.The PollingReport.com database lists eight surveys since 2004 in which Republicans were asked to pick between three alternatives: gay marriage, civil unions, and no legal recognition. As with other types of voters, Republicans' views on this issue are shifting.
According to the most recent survey -- from CBS News in August 2010 -- just 37 percent of Republican voters hold the position that gay couples should have no legal recognition. Instead, 59 percent of Republicans supported either civil unions or gay marriage.
No other survey has shown numbers that broke down quite like that, and the CBS poll may have been a modest outlier. The broader trend, nevertheless, suggests that only about 45 percent of the Republican electorate will be opposed to any form of legal recognition for gay couples by the time the first primaries take place in early 2012. That would put candidates like Mr. Daniels and Mr. Pawlenty -- rather than Mr. Hunstman -- in the minority among Republicans.
This does not mean that there is no risk at all for Mr. Hunstman. Civil unions had gained currency as a centrist alternative between gay marriage and no legal recognition. But both advocates and opponents of gay rights are increasingly turning their attention to marriage itself, meaning that everyone from Mr. Hunstman to President Obama may have to pick sides. In polls that present a choice between gay marriage and no legal recognition -- with civil unions removed as an alternative -- most Republican voters continue to gravitate toward the latter option, with 27 of Republican voters supporting gay marriage but 71 percent opposed in a recent CNN survey.
Another problem is the Republican calendar. The electorates in Iowa, South Carolina and Nevada contain an especially large number of religious conservatives. The one in New Hampshire does not -- rather, it is among the most liberal Republican states. But Mitt Romney, a candidate to whom Mr. Hunstman bears some surface similarities, runs very strongly in New Hampshire, where he now resides. If Mr. Huntsman were unable to break through in either Iowa or New Hampshire, his odds of winning the Republican nomination would be remote.
Nevertheless, reporters -- to say nothing of the candidates themselves -- ought not to assume that Republican voters reflexively gravitate toward any and all positions against gay rights. Opinions on these issues are changing fairly rapidly, and the partisan divides are not as strong as those on economic policy. 
A Gallup poll conducted last year found that 60 percent of Republicans -- and 53 percent of self-described conservatives -- support allowing openly gay men and women to serve in the military. (Several Republican candidates opposed last year's repeal of the "don't ask, don't tell" policy, and Mr. Pawlenty has pledged to reinstate it if he becomes president.) And a near-consensus of Americans -- 87 percent in a December 2008 Newsweek survey -- support protecting gays and lesbians from employment discrimination, an area where several Republican candidates have ambiguous positions.
Nor are Republican voters interested in putting a large emphasis on gay rights. Even at the Values Voters Summit, a gathering of socially conservative activists, gay marriage barely registered as a priority in a survey of participants, with abortion, government spending and health care instead receiving top billing. 
Some of the most conservative Republicans, like Ms. Bachmann and Rick Santorum, will no doubt try to make an issue of Mr. Hunstman's views on gay rights. But it's more likely to be his support for President Obama's stimulus package, and his former support for a system of carbon caps, that will turn into major problems for him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); LGBT RIGHTS (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); COHABITATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TRENDS (73%); WRITERS (50%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Presidential Election of 2012; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



382 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Studios Push Legislation Intended to Curb Piracy

BYLINE: MICHAEL CIEPLY


HIGHLIGHT: The legislation would allow courts to order search engines and Internet service providers to stop doing business with sites that have pirated material. 

 BODY:
The entertainment industry threw its weight behind a proposed law that would give law enforcement officials and others new authority to move against Internet sites that traffic in copyrighted material without permission. 
The legislation was introduced Thursday in the Senate, with bipartisan support from a group of sponsors that included Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah. 
Called the Preventing Real Online Threats to Economic Creativity and Theft of Intellectual Property - or the PROTECT IP Act - the law would take aim at foreign-owned sites that trade in pirated material by allowing United States authorities to seek court orders directing domestic Internet service providers, search engines and others to cease doing business with them. It would give rights holders new power to act in court against pirates by using streamlined procedures to eliminate sites that have reappeared with a different domain name or new owner after a violation. 
On Thursday, the Motion Picture Association of America, which represents the major film companies, joined the National Association of Theater Owners and the Independent Film and Television Alliance in supporting the proposed law. 
"Movie theater operators are acutely aware of the increasingly harmful effects" of piracy, John Fithian, the president of the theater owners association, said in a statement. 
The statement was a signal that a generally strong alliance between the theater owners and the film studios remained intact, despite recent strains triggered by a move by some studios to release a handful of films through on-demand services only two months after their theatrical debut. Theater owners have criticized that plan as a threat to their business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (96%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); DOMAIN NAMES (73%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); THEATER (56%); PROPERTY CRIMES (56%) movie piracy; Orrin Hatch; Patrick Leahy; Hatch, Orrin G; Leahy, Patrick J; Copyrights and Copyright Violations; Law and Legislation; Motion Picture Assn of America; National Assn of Theater Owners

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%) Motion Picture Assn of America; National Assn of Theater Owners

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (90%); PATRICK LEAHY (88%) Hatch, Orrin G; Leahy, Patrick J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



383 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Town Hall Participants to Obama: Help Us, Please

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama held a town hall meeting, where he was asked for help. 

 BODY:
What do you do if your mortgage is under water or you've lost your job in the federal government? 
How about asking President Obama to help?
That's what a handful of people did during a CBS News town hall meeting with Mr. Obama on Wednesday. It was shown during "The Early Show" on the network Thursday morning.
One woman, Karen, who is losing her job at the National Zoo in Washington - even as she is seven months pregnant - asked Mr. Obama what she should do.
"I don't want to sort of - find out more details in front of everybody about what your status is," Mr. Obama said. "But - we can have a conversation may - maybe afterwards." 
Another woman, Nancy, said she needed help with her mortgage but couldn't refinance because she owed more than the house was now worth. She said loan modifications that helped her are set to expire next year.
"I'm not sure about your particular circumstance, Nancy, but if you've already gotten a loan modification - I don't know why it would expire in 2012," Mr. Obama said. "It seems to me that - it should be able to continue if you are making regular payments on it."
The woman then asked, "Maybe you can make a call?" which prompted laughter in the audience.
"You know," Nancy said, "it worked for Karen, so "
Mr. Obama used the questions from the two women, and a handful of others, to offer his assessment of the nation's economy, which he said was improving, though not as quickly as many would like.
"I think a lot of people just feel like the American dream, the core notion that if you work hard and you act responsibly that you can pass on a better life to your kids and your grandkids," he said. "A lot of folks aren't feeling that anymore."
The president also reiterated his belief that a compromise with Republicans on the budget and the nation's debt was likely to include a trigger to force action by lawmakers.
"What we're going to end up having to do probably - is to set some targets, and say - you know, those targets have to be hit if not automatically, some cuts and tax increases start taking place," he said. "And that will give incentive for us to negotiate - and figure something out."

        
Obama Recasts Asia Trip as Jobs Mission
        
Obama Urges Quick Vote to Spur Jobs
        
Obama Takes Economic Detour From Health Care
        
Obama to Democrats: Don't 'Play It Safe'
        
Obama Announces New Jobs Programs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); TAX LAW (60%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (56%) barack obama; economy; housing; jobs; town hall; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; CBS News; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

ORGANIZATION: CBS News

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



384 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Romney Confronts Health Care Questions

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney knows he has to find a way to reconcile his championing of universal health care in Massachusetts with his opposition to President Obama's health care law. 

 BODY:
Is Mitt Romney, the former Republican governor of Massachusetts, an advocate for a state version of what conservatives derisively call Obamacare?
As he prepares for his second bid for the White House, Mr. Romney and his top aides know he has to find a definitive way to answer that question if he has any hope of navigating the first Republican primary campaign in the Tea Party era.
But how?
An acknowledgment that he was wrong to have championed a universal health care plan in Massachusetts would undercut years of his own aggressive defense of his actions and add to the narrative that he flip-flops on important issues. And then there's his recent memoir, "No Apology."
But continuing to back a plan that included an individual mandate for health insurance - just like the one that President Obama put in place - risks alienating the most energized part of the Republican Party on the very issue that mobilized them in the first place.
"He's got to answer the big question, which is what do you say about Massachusetts health care?" Karl Rove, a top political adviser to former president George W. Bush, said in a radio interview on Tuesday. "I mean, it has an individual mandate just like President Obama's."
And a Wall Street Journal editorial on Thursday morning said that on the health care issue, "Mr. Romney is compromised and not credible. If he does not change his message, he might as well try to knock off Joe Biden and get on the Obama ticket."
On Thursday, Mr. Romney will make his most direct effort yet to find a politically safe middle ground, saying in a speech that he doesn't regret his actions as governor, while vowing that, if elected, he would begin efforts to repeal Mr. Obama's heath care law on his first day in the Oval Office.
"The governor knows that there are questions about health care that he needs to and wants to address," Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, said in an interview Wednesday evening. "There are some things he would do differently with the benefit of hindsight, but the fundamental decision he made to undertake a reform? He does not regret having done that."
In an opinion article published Thursday morning in USA Today, Mr. Romney vows to issue an executive order on his first day as president granting waivers to any state that wants to opt out of Mr. Obama's federal health care plan.
"The reforms that I propose, which are based on the same philosophical tenets as the reforms I offered during my last presidential campaign in 2008, return power to the states, improve access by slowing health care cost increases and make health insurance portable and flexible for today's economy," Mr. Romney writes.
In the article, and, presumably, in the speech on Thursday, Mr. Romney proposes a state-by-state solution to health care combined with federal action that would cap medical malpractice awards, allow insurance to be sold across state lines and use the tax code to subsidize the purchase of health insurance.
Mr. Romney and his advisers clearly hope that the speech, given before he is even a declared candidate, will help lance the boil of an issue that has refused to go away.
In part, that's because Democrats have gleefully tried to keep it alive. In an e-mail set to go out Thursday morning, the Democratic National Committee makes fun of "Mitt Romney, version 5.0" in fake PowerPoint slides that mock Mr. Romney's penchant for the businesslike presentations.
"The reality is that today's speech will be only the latest in a series of politically calculated acts in Mitt Romney's contortionist struggle to tout the health reform law he passed in Massachusetts while bashing the federal reform modeled on that law," the D.N.C. e-mail says.
A liberal blogger on Wednesday dug up another example of Mr. Romney endorsing the idea of a state mandating that individuals buy insurance.
"I'd think it's a terrific idea," Mr. Romney said on NBC's "Meet the Press" in 2007. "I think you're going to find when it's all said and done, after all these states that are the laboratories of democracy, get their chance to try their own plans, but those who follow the path that we pursued will find it's the best path, and we'll end up with a nation that's taken a mandate approach."
And a spokesman for a Democratic health care group, Protect Your Care, issued a statement Wednesday saying that "Romney's plan in Massachusetts was good health care policy that helped lay the foundation for passing the Affordable Care Act nationally," adding that "it's disappointing that he doesn't address that policy in this op-ed, but we hope he will in his speech tomorrow, and we will continue to defend it from attacks."
The group plans to publish videos on Thursday sarcastically thanking Mr. Romney for all his help in health care - knowing full well that they are not being helpful to Mr. Romney's hopes for winning the Republican nomination.
Before Mr. Obama and national Democrats borrowed many of his ideas, Mr. Romney spent years bragging about his health care plan everywhere he went. As a reporter for The Washington Post in 2007, I recorded Mr. Romney citing his health care accomplishment as one of his proudest moments.
"One of the things I'm proud of being able to do in my state - you know, I was governor of the state next door - putting on track a plan that gets everybody health insurance," he said. "And that was, in my opinion, one of the great things that had to happen."
Now he is the target of attacks from the right. Rick Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who is also planning a run for president, said last month that "the issues, unfortunately, don't line up particularly well for Governor Romney this time, particularly with health care being front and center on the stage."
The former governor's aides say Mr. Romney opposes a "one-size-fits-all approach and is eager to talk about the health care issue."
"Mitt Romney has the same positions as every other 2012-er when it comes to the repeal of Obamacare," Mr. Fehrnstrom said. "He is the first of those candidates to lay out his plan with replacing Obamacare with new reforms that put states in the driver's seat."

        
Romney Makes It Official, Quietly
        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
Boehner, McConnell Push Assault on Health Care Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%) 2012; Democrats; health care; health care reform; Massachusetts; mitt romney; president obama; presidential election 2012; Republicans; Romney, Mitt; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2012; Reform and Reorganization; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE BIDEN (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



385 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Hillary Clinton Takes Seat at Arctic Council

BYLINE: STEVEN LEE MYERS


HIGHLIGHT: In a baby step, eight nations are to sign an agreement to coordinate search and rescue operations across 13 million square miles of ocean that are becoming more navigable as Arctic sea ice decreases. 

 BODY:
Officials of the eight Arctic nations are taking their first concrete step to cooperate in an ecologically fragile region where climate change is driving economic competition.
Members of the Arctic Council -- the United States, Russia, Canada, Iceland, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden -- plan to sign an agreement on Thursday to coordinate search-and-rescue operations across 13 million square miles of ocean that are becoming more navigable as Arctic sea ice decreases. In a sign of the council's new prominence in American foreign policy, Hillary Rodham Clinton is the first secretary of state to attend one of its biannual meetings.
The agreement will be the first legally binding accord negotiated and signed by the council's members. Officials said they hoped it would become a model for increasing international cooperation in the Arctic on far more difficult issues as the pursuit of natural resources sharpens unresolved territorial disputes and raises the prospect of pollution and environmental catastrophes.
"There are very core interests that are at stake in the Arctic," the deputy secretary of state, James B. Steinberg, said in Washington ahead of the meeting, "but it is an opportunity to find new patterns of cooperation to deal with these challenges because clearly, these are things that the United States or any individual nation acting alone is not able to advance by acting alone."
The Arctic Council was founded in 1996 to address environmental issues, but has since broadened its focus to include other challenges and opportunities brought about by the effects of climate change -- from oil and gas exploration to increasing traffic of cargo and cruise ships in areas formerly icebound for much of the year.
The mere fact of Mrs. Clinton's participation elevated the Arctic issues within the bureaucracy of American diplomacy in the months leading up to it. She arrived on Wednesday evening, accompanied by the United States secretary of the interior, Ken Salazar, and Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska.
The climate changes in the Arctic could, in the short term, create an economic boom, even as it changes ways of life for the region's four million residents.
But the longer-term consequences could prove devastating to the planet, many say. A report by the Arctic Council's scientific arm warns that sea levels could rise three to five feet in the next century, well about previous estimates, threatening the flooding of coastal cities.
Armond Cohen, executive director of the Clean Air Task Force, an advocacy group in Boston, welcomed the Arctic Council's agreement on search and rescue efforts but expressed disappointment that its members had yet to negotiate binding agreements to directly address environmental factors that cause climate change.
He urged the council, for example, to adopt measures to reduce emissions of methane and soot, or so-called black carbon. These emissions, called short-lived "climate forcers," are not as pernicious as carbon-dioxide emissions, scientists say, but contribute in ways like accelerating the warming of reflective surfaces like ice and snow.
Reducing them could have an outsize benefit on warming in the Arctic, many suggest.
"It's been more or less a talk shop for the last 15 years," Mr. Cohen said of the Arctic Council. Now, he said, "there's starting to be a sense of urgency."

        
Polar Ice Loss Is Accelerating, Scientists Say
        
A Big Surprise Beneath the Ice
        
Requiem for the Bears?
        
Take a Number, Mr. Walrus
        
Arctic Waters Warmer Than in 2,000 Years

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); METHANE (72%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); OCEANS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (67%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (67%); POLITICS (66%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%) Arctic Council; Global Warming; Greenland; Hillary Clinton; sea ice; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Environment; Ice; International Relations; United States Politics and Government; Arctic Regions; climate change; Politics and Policy; Science

ORGANIZATION: ARCTIC COUNCIL (94%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); KEN SALAZAR (54%); LISA MURKOWSKI (50%) Clinton, Hillary Rodham

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) ARCTIC (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); GREENLAND (92%); ICELAND (92%); NORWAY (92%); FINLAND (92%); DENMARK (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%) Arctic Regions; Greenland

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



386 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Small Banks and Debit-Card Reform

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The Independent Community Bankers of America needs to explain why it opposes a limit on debit-card fees that would seem to benefit its members, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, is the co-author of "13 Bankers."
It's not hard to understand why large banks oppose any attempt to overhaul the financial arrangements currently surrounding credit cards and debit cards. In the duopoly run through Visa and MasterCard, big banks earn fees that far exceed their costs. 
The excess profit for debit cards would be substantially reduced by a proposed Federal Reserve regulation now on the table that would implement the Durbin Amendment from the Dodd-Frank 2010 financial reform act. That amendment, sponsored by Senator Dick Durbin, a Democrat from Illinois, required the Fed to place a cap on the fees that banks may charge on debit-card transactions. 
Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat from Montana, has proposed legislation that would delay and effectively derail implementation of the Durbin Amendment, and the big banks are very much in his camp. 
It's much harder to understand why Independent Community Bankers of America, the trade group for small banks, is pushing so hard for the Tester bill (and effectively shielding big banks from political pressure), because community banks are explicitly exempted from having to lower their fees, and individual executives from at least some small banks publicly support the Durbin Amendment (see, for example, Senator Durbin's letter to the I.C.B.A. last year). 
The most plausible explanation is that I.C.B.A. is one of the country's largest issuers of credit cards and debit cards -- so the representatives from small banks actually have, in this regard, the incentives of a big bank. Although all of its members may be exempt from the debit-card fee provision, the association perhaps is not. To an outsider, this looks like a serious conflict of interest that is undermining the interests of community bankers and distorting the political process. 
The I.C.B.A. needs to provide the details of this potential conflict in a transparent manner, including how much money the organization makes from its card business. It also needs to publish the full details of a "survey" that it uses to claim that most community bankers are against the Durbin Amendment. And it probably should also step back from its involvement in the Durbin-Tester debate.
The open secret of the American financial system is that while you and your friends might like to rail against banks over dinner, when the time comes to pay (at the grocery store or in the restaurant), you are likely to offer the merchant some form of plastic card. 
While this transaction may seem free to you, the merchant is charged a fee by the bank that issued the card -- administered through a card network run by Visa or MasterCard (or American Express or Discover). Specifically, the merchant's bank (known as the "acquirer") has to pay "interchange fees" to the card-issuing bank.
For debit cards, which draw directly from your checking account, these fees averaged 44 cents for each transaction in 2009 (which was 1.14 percent of the relevant average retail transaction, according to the Fed, adding up to $15.7 billion economy-wide). 
The actual cost of these operations varies, mostly depending on economies of scale in the bank's processing operation (which is why the Durbin exemption for small banks makes sense). But over our current systems, the cost is very low; on average it is 4 cents for a transaction, according to the Fed. (For the most detailed publicly available study on the effect of lower interchange fees, look at this report on what happened in the Australian debit-card payment system.)
The Durbin Amendment charged the Federal Reserve with lowering the debit-card fees to a reasonable level that will cover costs, and the Fed is proposing to set this rate at not more than 12 cents for a transaction. But this rate would apply only to larger banks. By design, the Durbin Amendment does not apply to banks with less than $10 billion in total assets, and the Fed has confirmed that this exemption can be implemented (see this statement by Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed). 
Global megabanks are now regarded as "too big to fail" by policy makers, and these companies benefit from huge implicit government guarantees. When you talk with community bankers, they understand and are seriously upset by this arrangement. 
But the lobbyists for these community bankers have been unwilling or unable to take on the big banks in any part of the political arena. The Durbin Amendment is a determined attempt to give the small banks an advantage. But the I.C.B.A. is not interested.
It argues that the "carve out" for small banks will not work -- through moves by merchants and the card networks, these banks will be squeezed out of the payments system. This is not the view of the Federal Reserve staff, which has studied this closely. 
And Senator Durbin is firm on this: 
My amendment does not allow discrimination by merchants against issuers of debit cards. As is the case today, under my amendment a merchant who accepts Visa debit cards from large banks would be required to accept Visa debit cards from small banks and credit unions as well. They would also be prohibited from offering discounts for large bank cards and not providing the same discount for small bank cards from the same network.
Perhaps there are legitimate reasons for the I.C.B.A.'s views, but it is also the case that the I.C.B.A. Bancard is a significant player. This is ironic, because the card's stated purpose is admirable -- to help small banks compete: 
Today, I.C.B.A. Bancard also serves as an advocate for independent community banks in national policy discussions about payment systems. Part of our mission is to educate community banks about the need to actively offer payment services in order to retain their best customers, earn profitable returns, and be respected as full-fledged participants in the marketplace.
By some rankings, the I.C.B.A. Bancard is among the top 25 debit cards and credit cards in the country.
The I.C.B.A's main justification for its position is a "survey" of independent community bankers that shows they are opposed to the Durbin Amendment -- that is, lowering the debit fees of banks with which they compete. This result is odd, particularly given that a simple online poll by American Banker showed that 60 percent of its readers thought that small banks would gain from the amendment -- and this result came after the I.C.B.A. tweeted that it wanted votes against the Durbin plan.
The I.C.B.A.'s Web site does not disclose details of who was surveyed or by whom, or what questions were asked. Its staff members were friendly but confirmed to me that they would not disclose these details. (My impression is that the survey asked banks how they would respond if their debit interchange fees were greatly reduced -- not whether the Durbin Amendment would actually reduce these fees).
It's time for the I.C.B.A. to disclose those details. Is this a real survey or another instance of lobbying posing as research? The I.C.B.A. should share this information both with its membership and with the public.

        
Is There Too Much Federal Debt?
        
The Problem With the F.D.I.C.'s Powers
        
Behind the S.&P. Warning on the Deficit
        
Is Goldman Sachs Too Big to Fail?
        
Big Banks Have a Powerful New Opponent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBIT CARDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (91%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); WRITERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); MERCHANT BANKING (73%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); POLITICS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%) Simon Johnson; Banking and Financial Institutions; Debit Cards; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Independent Community Bankers of America

COMPANY: VISA INC (92%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (83%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (89%); JON TESTER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



387 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: A Wall Street Conviction: Will It Change Anything?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Hedge Fund Billionaire Is Guilty of Insider Trading'' (front page, May 12):
The conviction of Raj Rajaratnam is heartening to investors; however, the playing field has not been leveled. The revelations from this trial confirm that the system is indeed fixed. The fox is in charge of the sheep. 
While Bernard L. Madoff and now Mr. Rajaratnam in all likelihood will have time to contemplate their transgressions behind bars, how does this have any real impact?
We would all be better served if Mr. Rajaratnam turned his talents toward helping regulators figure out what to regulate. He clearly knows how to game the system in his favor, as I am sure many others not charged do with impunity.
Frank Abagnale Jr., the con artist who inspired ''Catch Me if You Can,'' paid society back by revealing his secrets to the F.B.I. Let Mr. Rajaratnam forfeit his fortune -- which otherwise will be growing while he serves his time -- and work for the rest of us in reforming this corrupt financial system.
MARK MAMMEL St. Paul, May 12, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''A Circle of Tipsters Who Shared Illicit Secrets'' (front page, May 12):
You write that Anil Kumar, a McKinsey consultant, ''faced an agonizing choice'' -- between following the ethical rules of his employer or illegally feeding inside information to his friend Raj Rajaratnam for an extra $500,000 a year.
That is not an agonizing choice. When seniors have to choose between buying medicine and food because of their meager incomes, that is an agonizing choice. People who are unemployed face agonizing decisions every day: how to tell their children that the college fund is gone, how to decide who gets new clothes for the school year.
Your insensitive wording insults hard-working, playing-by-the-rules Americans everywhere.
CLAUDIA COOK San Francisco, May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); ETHICS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



388 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing In a Burst of Glory

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The American Folk Art Museum's radiant quilt exhibition will probably be the last of its kind at its unwelcoming, decade-old building on West 53rd Street. On Tuesday evening, while the show's opening reception was under way, the trustees voted to sell the building to its prominent neighbor, the Museum of Modern Art, for an undisclosed sum.
After months of financial trouble, the sale came as no surprise. It will enable the Folk Art Museum to retire a $32 million debt on the building, designed by the architects Tod Williams and Billie Tsien. Although no departure date has been set -- the quilt exhibition is scheduled to close Oct. 16, but who knows? -- it will also force the museum to retreat to its cramped, uncongenial branch at Lincoln Square. That 5,000-square-foot space across from Lincoln Center was its home for the dozen years it struggled to build the structure it now is giving up. 
The vote to sell and the quilt show's opening, occurring almost simultaneously, stand in tragic contrast. Folk art, so fundamental and so beloved, seems unable to get a stable foothold in New York City, in spite of this museum's great collection. No other institution has been quite so thorough in accounting for American folk art, from its amazing beginnings in the 18th and 19th centuries through the 20th century and up to the present, even as the term folk art has been superseded by ''self-taught'' and ''outsider'' art. At this point the museum's collection contains around 5,000 objects, not including its holdings by the great 20th-century outsider Henry Darger, which number 4,000 to 5,000 items (drawings, books and related material).
The Folk Art Museum has never had an easy time. Its Web site provides an unusually forthright and detailed account of the shifting fortunes and habitats it has endured since its founding in 1961; this is not the first near-death experience in its 50-year history.
It's hard to know who or what is to blame for the latest fiasco, but three culprits come to mind: lackluster, visionless leadership; the weak economy; and inappropriate architecture. A small, historically fragile museum can perhaps manage one or even two of the above, but evidently not three. The debt was not enormous, and the trustees should have been able to pay some or all of it down. But maybe they did not want to throw good money after bad.
The building, in particular, casts a pall. Occupying a double brownstone plot, it is notable for a blank, vaguely lunar, metal-clad facade that is armored and fortresslike, positively foreboding. It makes perfect sense that attendance figures never met expectations. Things turn considerably more folksy inside the museum, in ways that crowd the art and often feel forced and over-busy. The most egregious touch is a broad stairway connecting the third and fourth floors that takes huge bites out of the narrow, already limited galleries.
The current exhibition, ''Quilts: Masterworks From the American Folk Art Museum,'' is a kind of elegy to the museum's potential. It is the second half of a two-part show; like Part 1, which opened in the fall and closed in April, it presents about 35 works, nearly all of them singular.
As with other areas of the museum's collection, its quilt holdings are deep and broad, as evidenced by a thick book cataloging more than 200 of them, published in conjunction with these shows. The ones on view now confirm what a vital role quilts have played in the amazing history of American folk art. They effortlessly combine personal and national histories with an exceptional kind of down-home formalism, all the while using available, often humble, fabrics. Like painted furniture and ceramics -- only more so -- they encourage a free-range pictorial expression outside of painting's traditional boundaries. Like Navajo blankets, many can be counted among the earliest abstract art in post-conquest North America.
Amish quilts are generally considered the most purely abstract and have long been appreciated as precursors of Minimalism's rigor and scale. That thinking is confirmed here by the ''Diamond in the Square Quilt,'' made in 1903 by Rebecca Fisher Stoltzfus of Groffdale in Lancaster County, Pa. Using only three colors and nothing but squares, this work consists of a red diamond (or tilted square) on a blue square banded in red on a green field banded in blue, all pinned down at the corners with four large blue squares. The resulting spread-eagle composition -- worthy in its boldness of the young Frank Stella -- is a marvel to dissect and reassemble with the eye.
Part of the power of quilts stems from the infinite ways they elucidate the nature of geometry, simply by constantly demonstrating how smaller shapes add up to larger, different ones. An especially simple example here from early 19th-century New England is a ''whole cloth'' quilt made from one large sheet of tan wool with a blocky eight-pointed blue star appliqued to its center. It is somehow wonderful to realize that the star is pieced together from a square with two spindly triangles affixed to each side for points. After piecing, the other marvel of quilting is the act itself, that is, the stitching by which the front and back are made one: usually in profuse and intricate patterns. For example, the quilting on ''Diamond in the Square'' includes an elaborate eight-point star in its central red diamond.
Many quilts in this show, though, leave plain geometry in the dust. They can be divided between, to borrow phrases from painting, those that strongly contrast figure and ground and those that merge everything into densely frontal all-over patterns. The great figure-ground examples include a blue-on-white quilt featuring feathered stars within stars made by one ECB, possibly in New York State in the decade before the Civil War; and an ''English Flower Garden Quilt,'' which presents starchy rows of potted plants using several solid colors and printed patterns, made in the 1930s by Jennie Pingrey Stotts of Yates Center, Kan., who was born just as the Civil War started.
In the all-over category, the show includes several species of crazy quilts, with their jigsawing irregular geometries, as well as a splendid ''Soldier's Quilt,'' fashioned from wool felt (red, black, yellow, cream and olive) in the late 19th century; it has abbreviated insignia designs and the tautness of a game board. The insignia is quite a bit more real in a striking Hawaiian flag quilt that frames the Hawaiian coat of arms with repeating flags that recall the state's history as a sovereign nation.
Quilts, like any art form, have a life of their own. Their open-ended language proliferates in the Folk Art Museum's soon-to-be former home on 53rd Street and also in an additional display of quilts -- all involving stars -- that can be seen at its Lincoln Square branch. They challenge anyone who loves them to help this museum thrive.
''Quilts: Masterworks From the American Folk Art Museum'' continues through Oct. 16 at the American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan; (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Quilts: At the American Folk Art Museum, a show of quilts from the collection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM) (C21)
Left, the Amish ''Diamond in the Square Quilt,'' made in 1903 by Rebecca Fisher Stoltzfus
center, the ''English Flower Garden Quilt''
and, right, a Hawaiian flag quilt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCHECTER LEE/COLLECTION AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM
GAVIN ASHWORTH, COLLECTION AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM)
 A view of the quilts exhibition showing the ''Soldier's Quilt,'' made from wool felt in the late 19th century, in the right foreground. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



389 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Leadership Void As Al Qaeda Pushes On

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Mark Mazzetti, Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Al Qaeda's online propaganda arm sought to rally supporters this week after the killing of Osama bin Laden, it did not hint that the network had a major terrorist plot in the works. Instead, it proposed do-it-yourself terrorism, urging militants around the world to come up with their own attacks, however modest.
''We say to every mujahid Muslim, if there is an opportunity, do not waste it,'' said the statement Monday from Al Fajr Media Center, the terror network's online voice. ''Do not consult anyone about killing Americans or destroying their economy.'' 
The message praised Bin Laden for his ''long-term planning and vision,'' but proposed exactly the opposite: ''We also incite you to carry out acts of individual terrorism with significant results, which only require basic preparation.''
The message implicitly acknowledged that the demise of Al Qaeda's founder leaves its core in a weakened position. Even before Bin Laden's death, the rise of affiliates, notably Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula in Yemen, had shifted attention and energy away from the parent organization in Pakistan.
Now, with a handful of flawed or little-known candidates ready to succeed Bin Laden, but no one with his status and charisma, the future of the network's old hub is uncertain. Some American intelligence analysts believe that the fact that more than 10 days have passed without the announcement of a successor could be a sign of a power struggle.
''The core is diminished by Bin Laden's death -- it's a big blow,'' said Daniel L. Byman, a former Central Intelligence Agency and 9/11 Commission staff member, now at Georgetown University.
Intelligence analysts from the C.I.A. and a half-dozen other agencies poring over the computer files and documents seized from Bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, have been impressed by the degree to which he stayed in touch with underlings in Pakistan and affiliates abroad, said officials briefed on the assessment. The material so far has not yielded leads on plots, said a senior law enforcement official, but it has given greater insight into Bin Laden's role.
He mused in a notebook containing a dozen handwritten pages about new ways to attack the United States, including targeting trains and trying to recruit among American ethnic minorities. On dozens of thumb drives and CDs and 10 hard drives, analysts are finding years of letters of instructions to subordinates and spinoffs, which were then e-mailed by couriers from Internet cafes. It is not always clear that the instructions were received or obeyed.
''Bin Laden was issuing directives in detail to his deputies and to the affiliates -- actions to take, thoughts on who should be leaders,'' said an official familiar with the intelligence. ''He was very much trying to exercise control.''
Whether a replacement can exercise the same influence is in question.
''Bin Laden was the only person with the stature that when he spoke, the affiliates would listen,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''It's unlikely that they will listen to the same degree to any of the others.''
Ayman al-Zawahri, the Egyptian doctor who had long been Bin Laden's deputy, is widely viewed as a divisive figure whose ascent to the top position could further weaken the hub of the network. ''There's an understanding inside Al Qaeda that Zawahri is not nearly as respected or admired as Bin Laden,'' said one official.
But under intense pressure both from the C.I.A.'s drones and the stepped-up hunt for Qaeda operatives after the assault on Bin Laden's compound, it will be difficult for any lesser-known leader to establish himself, Mr. Byman said.
''You have to press the flesh,'' he said. ''You have to hold meetings. That's not easy if you're busy trying to stay alive.''
Some military and counterterrorism officials believe the competition for leadership of the global jihadist movement is up for grabs, with possible candidates far from Pakistan's tribal area. Among the names mentioned are the leader of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, Nasser al-Wuhayshi, a Saudi who served as Bin Laden's personal secretary in the 1990s and who has overseen attacks against both Yemen and the United States.
Mr. Wuhayshi posted his own eulogy for Bin Laden on the Web Tuesday, one of numerous bids for the spotlight in recent days. ''Let the Americans know that the ember of jihad is glowing stronger and brighter than it was during the life of the Sheikh,'' he wrote.
Some American officials also believe that Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born cleric now hiding with the Qaeda branch in Yemen, could fill some of the void left by Bin Laden's death. Mr. Awlaki's fluent English, knowledge of the United States and Web prominence are in his favor, though some experts on Yemen question his stature within the organization.
In Pakistan, American officials believe a younger generation of operatives is emerging to challenge the authority of the group's old guard, including Mr. Zawahri.
The officials said that a charismatic pair of Libyan men, Atiya Abd al-Rahman and Abu Yahya al-Libi, who escaped from the prison at Bagram in Afghanistan in 2005, are now believed to be Qaeda's senior operational planners. Their ascendance came after a drone strike in 2010 killed Sheikh Saeed al-Masri, who has been the group's third-ranking operative, a slot associated with a notoriously short lifespan.
Another prominent figure is Ilyas Kashmiri, a Pakistani veteran of the Soviet-Afghan war who was accused in 2009 of conspiring with two Chicago men to attack a Danish newspaper that had published a cartoon of the Prophet Muhammad. And there is Adnan el-Shukrijumah, a Saudi-born Qaeda operative who lived for years in the United States and has been indicted on charges involving the foiled 2009 plot to blow up part of the New York City subway with backpack bombs.
All of those names and many more are now being run through the Bin Laden archive, officials said, including at the Defense Intelligence Agency's National Media Exploitation Center, which specializes in rapid searches of electronic data. The goal is to find hints about the Qaeda figures' roles in the organization -- or their whereabouts, with the hope of capturing or killing the network's next generation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anwar al-Awlaki, left, the American-born cleric, and Abu Yahya al-Libi are among those seen as Qaeda leaders. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUHAMMAD UD-DEEN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
INTELCENTER) MAP: Countries Where Al Qaeda and Its Affiliates Operate: There are at least 21 Qaeda branches and affiliated groups, which have operations in almost 30 countries, according to research by IntelCenter, a Virginia-based organization that tracks terrorist groups. Key groups are listed below. (Sources: IntelCenter
 National Counterterrorism Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); FLASH DRIVES (66%); ETHNICITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



390 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: New Ways to Exploit Raw Data May Bring Surge of Innovation, a Study Says

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Math majors, rejoice. Businesses are going to need tens of thousands of you in the coming years as companies grapple with a growing mountain of data.
Data is a vital raw material of the information economy, much as coal and iron ore were in the Industrial Revolution. But the business world is just beginning to learn how to process it all.
The current data surge is coming from sophisticated computer tracking of shipments, sales, suppliers and customers, as well as e-mail, Web traffic and social network comments. The quantity of business data doubles every 1.2 years, by one estimate. 
Mining and analyzing these big new data sets can open the door to a new wave of innovation, accelerating productivity and economic growth. Some economists, academics and business executives see an opportunity to move beyond the payoff of the first stage of the Internet, which combined computing and low-cost communications to automate all kinds of commercial transactions.
The next stage, they say, will exploit Internet-scale data sets to discover new businesses and predict consumer behavior and market shifts.
Others are skeptical of the ''big data'' thesis. They see limited potential beyond a few marquee examples, like Google in Internet search and online advertising.
The McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the consulting firm, is coming down on the side of the optimists in a lengthy study to be published on Friday. The report, based on nine months of work is ''Big Data: The Next Frontier for Innovation, Competition and Productivity.'' It makes estimates of the potential benefits from deploying data-harvesting technologies and skills.
The McKinsey research unit, for example, says the value to the health care system in the United States could be $300 billion a year, and that American retailers could increase their operating profit margins by 60 percent.
But the study also identifies challenges. One hurdle is a talent and skills gap. The United States alone, McKinsey projects, will need 140,000 to 190,000 more people with ''deep analytical'' skills, typically experts in statistical methods and data-analysis technologies.
McKinsey says the nation will also need 1.5 million more data-literate managers, whether retrained or hired. The report points to the need for a sweeping change in business to adapt a new way of managing and making decisions that relies more on data analysis. Managers, according to the McKinsey researchers, must grasp the principles of data analytics and be able to ask the right questions.
''Every manager will really have to understand something about statistics and experimental design going forward,'' said Michael Chui, a senior fellow at the McKinsey Global Institute.
The study estimates that the use of personal location data could save consumers worldwide more than $600 billion annually by 2020. Computers determine users' whereabouts by tracking their mobile devices, like cellphones. The study cites smartphone location services including Foursquare and Loopt, for locating friends, and ones for finding nearby stores and restaurants.
But the biggest single consumer benefit, the study says, is going to come from time and fuel savings from location-based services -- tapping into real-time traffic and weather data -- that help drivers avoid congestion and suggest alternative routes. The location tracking, McKinsey says, will work either from drivers' mobile phones or GPS systems in cars.
Personal location data raises privacy concerns. Both Google and Apple, for example, have faced protests recently for collecting location data without most users' knowledge. The McKinsey report says such services should require that users have a choice and opt-in to use them, but the report does not deal with privacy issues in detail.
The sizable projected payoff for consumers, some experts say, is not surprising. ''Much of the benefit of innovation always flows to consumers,'' said Martin Baily, an economist at the Brookings Institution, who was an adviser on the study. ''So the large consumer surplus makes sense.''
In health care, the biggest slice of the $300 billion gain is expected to come from more effectively using data to inform treatment decisions. The tools include clinical decision support to assist doctors, and comparative effectiveness research to make more informed decisions on drug therapy.
For example, the Department of Veterans Affairs and Kaiser Permanente save millions of dollars a year in treating many patients with high cholesterol with generic statins instead of branded statins, like Lipitor. But such tailored treatments require electronic health records for tracking results, and most of the nation's hospitals and physicians still use paper records.
Skeptics say the economic payoff from harnessing big data sets is mostly wishful thinking so far. The nation's technology-assisted increase in productivity began in 1995 and continued through 2004, having trailed off since, despite investments in data analytics.
''The big dividend mostly hasn't arrived yet,'' said Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University.
The McKinsey authors say that the big-data trend is just getting under way. It will take years, they say, before the gains show up in the economic statistics, just as it did for computers to prove they were engines of productivity.
''But it's clear that data is an important factor of production now,'' said James Manyika, a director of the McKinsey Global Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BIG DATA (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); HEALTH CARE (63%); SMARTPHONES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



391 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Push for Higher Education Plan Comes to Shove for a University Chancellor

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
At the end of a turbulent week in Texas higher education, the circumstances of the chancellors of the state's two largest university systems stand in stark contrast.
On Tuesday, Mike McKinney, chancellor of the Texas A&M University system, abruptly announced his retirement, effective July 1. According to multiple higher education sources, it was a move quietly encouraged by members of the board of regents.
Two days later, the University of Texas System Board of Regents expressed unanimous support for Chancellor Francisco G. Cigarroa after a highly anticipated speech outlining his vision for advancing excellence throughout the system.
Interest in the actions of the university system regents has reached an unusual level, among the public and in the halls of the Texas Capitol, as distrust and acrimony have spread through the higher education community in recent months. And it seems that neither board's action this week is likely to lessen that scrutiny. 
The actions of both governing boards are tied, at least in part, to a debate over seven so-called breakthrough solutions for higher education. Since 2008, Gov. Rick Perry and the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative study group, have encouraged regents to put into effect the changes, which were developed by Jeff Sandefer, a businessman and foundation board member.
Supporters of the measures, which include separating research and teaching budgets and providing professors large cash rewards based solely on student evaluations, maintain that they will deliver better educational results more efficiently. But the measures have generated a significant backlash among the academic communities at the state's flagship public universities, Texas A&M and the University of Texas at Austin.
In e-mails to regents of the A&M system, where the most progress was made in putting the measures into effect, Mr. Sandefer and his father, the oilman J. D. Sandefer, who is known as Jakie, repeatedly expressed frustration with the chancellor's methods of implementation. The e-mails were obtained through open records requests. The younger Mr. Sandefer noted at one point that Mr. McKinney's approach was ''WAY overcomplicated'' and, later, that he had made ''a serious error.''
The University of Texas System has been more reluctant to implement the proposed measures, and the pressure to do so was, until recently, largely under the radar. In February, Mr. Perry appointed new regents and a new chairman, Gene Powell, who were perceived as sympathetic to the measures.
The flashpoint that inspired a barrage of angry letters and e-mails from Texas students, faculty members and alumni was Mr. Powell's hiring of a special adviser with ties to Mr. Sandefer and the conservative policy group, and the creation of two task forces to focus on university excellence and blended and online learning. Despite Mr. Powell's insistence to the contrary, some perceived the moves as an effort to cut out Mr. Cigarroa and other high-level administrators.
On Thursday, Mr. Powell told the room at an uncharacteristically crowded regents meeting that it was decided nearly a month ago that there was a need for the chancellor to lay out a framework for how he planned to guide the system. The vision Mr. Cigarroa then offered -- based on the four principles of opportunity, economic prosperity, quality of life and stewardship -- directly conflicted with some of the ''breakthrough solutions,'' though it embraced the goals if not the specifics of others.
The University of Texas System has a legacy of not settling for mediocrity, he said, and the people of Texas look to it for excellence. He told the room that, before the people's trust can be maintained, ''We must first trust each other.''
Mr. Cigarroa also cautioned regents not to become overly involved in the day-to-day operations of individual institutions. ''Our universities cannot be micromanaged,'' he said. ''I trust our presidents, and I will hold them and I will hold myself accountable.''
The remarks received a standing ovation from the room and a vote of support from the regents. Alex Cranberg, a recently appointed regent, said he approved of the chancellor's message, but warned against confusing prestige with achievements like advances in knowledge and student outcomes. Afterward, Mr. Cranberg wrote in an e-mail, ''The chancellor's message reinforced the important reforms that this Board must push forward to advance excellence at the University of Texas.''
William Powers Jr., president of the University of Texas at Austin, who delivered his own speech on Monday laying out a vision for his institution, said in an interview that the vote ''was a very positive development.'' He said, ''It included a commitment to excellence on our campus and emphasized a commitment to efficiency, accountability and accessibility, with which I strongly agree.''
Steve Hicks, who has served as a regent for two years, said the board's vote was the most important of his tenure. ''Now is the time to get fully behind the chancellor and not micromanage his affairs,'' Mr. Hicks said. The unanimous outcome was not predetermined, he said, although he was pleased with it. ''It's a start to the healing,'' he said.
Others agreed with the sentiment.
The University of Texas student body president, Natalie Butler, said the chancellor's remarks could be interpreted in different ways. As for whether the board and administrators have regained her confidence and that of her fellow students, she said, ''The question is still open.''
One question that Mr. Powell -- who said he believes the debate has been productive and hopes discussion continues -- hopes has been laid to rest is that the jobs of Mr. Cigarroa or Mr. Powers might be at risk.
''There's rumors out there that somebody's getting ready to be fired,'' Mr. Powell said in an interview. ''That has not been discussed at all about either gentleman.''
''I thought it was important for us to show that we care about them, we care about the job they're doing, and we fully support them,'' he said.
Meanwhile, at A&M, Ray Bowen, an alumnus who has actively pushed back against the proposals by the Texas Public Policy Foundation, said it was too early to determine what Mr. McKinney's departure would mean for the system's future.
He said, however, ''Our regents at this point seem pretty much impervious from alumni pressure.''
Mr. McKinney and Richard Box, chairman of the A&M Board of Regents, declined to comment for this article.
Mr. Bowen said he was interested in seeing what the effect of legislative pressure might be. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and the Texas House speaker, Joe Straus, Republican of San Antonio, issued a proclamation creating a joint oversight committee on higher education governance, excellence and transparency that will extend beyond the fast-approaching close of the regular legislative session.
State Representative Eric Johnson, Democrat of Dallas, the lone freshman legislator on the 12-person committee, said in a statement, ''In order for quality higher education to be accessible and affordable for Texas families, it's critical that the governing boards of our colleges and universities be held accountable for the policies they implement.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



392 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG, MAC WILLIAM BISHOP, PETER J. HENNING, STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
PRESSURE Shares of Goldman Sachs are under pressure following a scathing report from an outspoken industry analyst.
Richard X. Bove of Rochdale Securities slashed his price target on the investment bank's shares on Thursday and changed his rating to sell, saying that pressure was building for the Justice Department to take action against Goldman Sachs. 
Senator Carl Levin, above, who headed the Congressional inquiry that concluded Goldman had misled clients about mortgage-linked securities, has sent his findings to the Justice Department to determine whether executives broke the law. SUSANNE CRAIG
VIDEO Expectations for the burden of proof in insider trading cases may be heightened by the prosecution of Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group's co-founder. The White Collar Watch columnist takes a look at how wiretaps may become the new norm for evidence in white-collar investigations. MAC WILLIAM BISHOP
and PETER J. HENNING
A DEEPER LOOK LinkedIn's dual-class share structure has the potential to turn into a corporate governance nightmare.
In addition to dual-class stock, LinkedIn is also adopting a staggered board. The staggered board acts as a powerful antitakeover device because it takes two years to replace a majority of the board.
The Deal Professor wonders whether these provisions are necessary. STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF
DIRE ASSESSMENT The panel's name said it all: ''Investing for the End of the World: How to Profit From Economic Armageddon.''
The morose subject matter at the Salt Conference, as the SkyBridge Alternatives Conference is known, offered a stark contrast to the event location -- the Bellagio Hotel, replete with world-class art and ceilings of rare designer glass set amid the general excess of Las Vegas. AZAM AHMED
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BURDENS OF PROOF (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); WIRETAPPING (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (57%); CARL LEVIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (65%) NEVADA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



393 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: What Good Is Sitting Alone in Your Room? Cabaret Is a Steal

BYLINE: By ERIK PIEPENBURG

 BODY:
Fans of the American Songbook can get their fix of torch songs and 11 o'clock numbers on almost any night in New York. This weekend alone brings the husband-and-wife duo of Jason Danieley and Marin Mazzie to the Cafe Carlyle; K T Sullivan saluting Dorothy Fields at the Oak Room of the Algonquin Hotel; and Nnenna Freelon covering songs made popular by Lena Horne at Feinstein's at Loews Regency.
But in tough economic times a night at one of those venerable Manhattan rooms can cost a small fortune. Seats at the Carlyle, for example, are $40 to $135; add cocktails and dinner, and a night out for two requires a few hundred dollars. Luckily, for thrifty lovers of standards there are several night spots in New York where the repertory is being sung for a song. 
At the 70-seat cabaret theater at the Duplex in the West Village, the cover charge is never more than $20 and a moderately priced two-drink minimum. On a recent night the singer Colleen McHugh and a jazz trio -- the pianist Chuck Larkin, the guitarist Sean Harkness and the bassist Steve Doyle -- performed an intimate show that included Irving Berlin's ''Blue Skies,'' Cole Porter's ''I'm in Love Again'' and Dorothy Fields and Jerome Kern's ''April Fooled Me.''
At the Laurie Beechman Theater, a 100-seat space in Clinton, the actress Emily Bergl began a recent evening by asking the audience, ''Do you ever feel you were born in the wrong era?''
''Yes!'' shouted the crowd. And with that Ms. Bergl and her pianist, G. Scott Lacy, jump-kicked into a 90-minute set that included Noel Coward's ''Mad About the Boy'' and the Fats Waller classic ''Ain't Misbehavin'.''
Bob Bokor, who was in the front row, said afterward: ''I'm a dance music and '70s rock guy. This isn't normally my style. But I wanted a change. I enjoyed it.''
Sidney Myer, the booking manager at Don't Tell Mama, a cabaret space on West 46th Street in the theater district, described the Duplex and the Beechman -- as well as the Metropolitan Room, Le Poisson Rouge, Joe's Pub and Cast Party at Birdland -- as proving grounds for performers who come to New York with nothing more than a voice and a dream.
''Traditionally, cabaret in New York is the first and only door that's open to people when they come here,'' Mr. Myer said. ''Before anyone knows anyone to put them in a show, they put themselves in their own show.''
That's a bonus for audiences with limited funds. A show at Don't Tell Mama, Mr. Myer said, ''costs less than parking your car.'' Ms. McHugh said that her show was ''less than a soda and movie tickets.'' And both the Duplex and Don't Tell Mama offer separate piano bars with no cover.
For Ms. McHugh, 43, cabaret lets her indulge in music she's come to feel passionate about. ''I'd always been a Top 40 girl growing up as a child of the '80s,'' she said. ''But this is always the soundtrack that was on in the background.''
The American Songbook is an umbrella term for popular music from the '20s through the '60s, whether from Broadway, Tin Pan Alley or Hollywood. Its songwriters include the likes of Richard Rodgers, Jerome Kern, Cole Porter, George Gershwin and Irving Berlin, with Fields being one of the few women in the overwhelmingly male bunch.
'' 'The American Songbook' sounds like this thing that your mom liked or you were supposed to study in college,'' said Ms. McHugh, who works by day as a writer and producer at WNET-TV. ''But then people say, oh, 'Stormy Weather'? I love that. That's Harold Arlen? I don't think I've ever heard of Harold Arlen.' Then I do a Harold Arlen show, and my friends that I force to come love every song.''
During Ms. Bergl's show, perhaps as a nod to the younger people there who knew her from appearances on ''Desperate Housewives,'' she stripped from a full-length gown into a leg-baring beaded unitard and delivered a torch-song version of Madonna's ''Material Girl.'' The performance cost $20, with a $15 food-and-drink minimum.
''At one point in time it was cheaper to see a Broadway show than it was to see a movie,'' Ms. Bergl, 36, said before her performance. ''I want to do a show where you can spend $20 or $25 to get in, maybe you have to buy a couple of drinks, but you have an evening of live entertainment.''
For many singers the downtown cabaret scene is a good fit, though performing in a more gilded room remains an aspiration. ''I have my dreams-slash-delusions of grandeur of moving my way uptown, like the Jeffersons,'' Ms. McHugh said. ''But being downtown and having this opportunity to be at an accessible and affordable place that lets me try out new material every month is exactly where I'm supposed to be.''
Not that cheap comes at the expense of quality.
''There are so many people working in these clubs that have Broadway credits,'' Mr. Myer said. ''When you walk into a piano bar you're hearing talent that you'd hear in another setting for more money. But the economy has prevented people from having their own showcase.''
He continued: ''Remember, you don't start out as an oak at the Oak Room. You were an acorn somewhere first.''
Come Hear the Music Play: CAST PARTY AT BIRDLAND: 315 West 44th Street, Clinton; (212) 581-3080, castpartynyc.com. DON'T TELL MAMA: 343 West 46th Street, Clinton; (212) 757-0788, donttellmamanyc.com. THE DUPLEX: 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village; (212) 255-5438, theduplex.com. JOE'S PUB: 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 967-7555, joespub.com. LAURIE BEECHMAN THEATER: 407 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 695-6909, westbankcafe.com. LE POISSON ROUGE: 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village; (212) 505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com. METROPOLITAN ROOM: 34 West 22nd Street, Manhattan; (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emily Bergl singing at the Laurie Beechman Theater, one of several performance spaces that offer low-cost alternatives to Manhattan's more upscale traditional cabaret nightclubs.
 Colleen McHugh at the Duplex, with, from left, Chuck Larkins, Steve Doyle and Sean Harkness. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (87%); POP & ROCK (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); THEATER (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



394 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Let's Go Caps!

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I'm fiscally bipolar. Most of the time I think there's no way the two parties will do anything to address the nation's ruinous debt problem.
But some weeks there are rays of hope. This is one of those weeks. There is a lot going on behind the scenes of the debate over how to raise the federal debt-ceiling limit. Something good might happen.
Events are being driven by the Republican leaders. The playing field on the debt-ceiling fight is tilted in their direction, so they want to make this fight as consequential as possible. They want to use this occasion to reshape fiscal policy for decades. 
They have the advantage, first, because raising the limit is extremely unpopular. According to a poll commissioned by The Hill newspaper in Washington, only 27 percent of Americans want to raise the debt ceiling while 62 percent oppose it. The only time you can get voters, especially independent voters, to tolerate a debt-ceiling increase is if you tie it to a broad array of spending cuts.
Moreover, the debt limit absolutely has to pass. The Republican Party leaders are convinced that if the debt limit isn't raised and there's an economic catastrophe, all politicians will suffer, but, as president, Barack Obama will suffer most. He has a powerful incentive to do a deal.
Because they have leverage, John Boehner and Mitch McConnell are aggressively pushing their case. Boehner, the House speaker, gave a speech this week laying out a maximalist position, pulling the whole frame of the debate in his direction. But the real import of the speech was this: He's going to organize the debt-ceiling debate just as he organized the debate over the 2011 budget a few weeks ago. He's tying the debt-ceiling limit to compensatory spending cuts. That puts the focus of attention on what kind of cuts everybody can come up with. This is natural Republican turf.
Congress won't be able to produce specific program cuts and policy reforms in the next few weeks, but it can come up with structural rules that will obligate future Congresses to make cuts and reforms for years ahead. The important argument now is over what kind of restrictions to impose on future Congresses. (This by itself is a sign of just how far rightward the debate has shifted).
Republicans and a few moderate Democrats are rallying behind a spending cap plan, co-sponsored in the Senate by the Republican Bob Corker and the Democrat Claire McCaskill. In its simplest form, the bill would cap federal spending at 20.6 percent of gross domestic product, the recent historic average. If spending rose above that, automatic cuts would ensue.
Democrats like Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, support a deficit cap plan. If deficits got bigger than, say, 3 percent of G.D.P., then a mixture of spending cuts and tax increases would ensue.
Liberal Democrats hate the spending cap. As the population ages, it would force future Congresses to transform Medicare. Conservative Republicans hate the deficit cap. It would force big tax increases in years ahead to go along with big spending cuts.
This battle of the caps would seem to take us back to the same old gridlock. But, remember, the debt-ceiling limit has to pass. If it doesn't, there will be ruination for all involved. Moreover, if the two parties do come up with a compromise, the rewards would be enormous. President Obama would have averted a national catastrophe, put the government on a sustainable path and transformed the atmosphere in Washington. He'd surely win re-election in a walk. Boehner and McConnell would go down in history as the men who tamed the federal leviathan. The forces of fear and hope push powerfully toward a deal.
So in the standoff between the spending cap and the deficit cap, how might the two parties come together? Well, for the past few months the Senate's ''Gang of Six'' has been working to put some version of the Simpson-Bowles report into legislative form. These senators -- liberal, moderate and conservative -- are expected to announce their results soon. Their plan will presumably include some serious spending restraint, reaching many of the goals envisioned by Corker's spending caps.
Once there is a serious spending reduction on the table, that changes the whole psychology. There are many Republicans who, in those circumstances, would support a tax reform package that didn't raise tax rates but that did, when scored dynamically, raise a lot of tax revenue. That would make Democrats happy.
The whole thing could be enforced by adopting a version of the Bipartisan Policy Center's save-as-you-go idea. This is like the pay-as-you-go rules that restrained spending and debt in the 1990s, only it is much tougher. If Corker's spending caps and Reid's deficit caps got together, the save-as-you-go plan would be their love child.
The circumstances of the debt-ceiling fight make compromise more likely than at any other time. I wouldn't say a grand bargain is likely, just more likely than it has been.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); HARRY REID (55%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (55%); BOB CORKER (55%); JOHN BOEHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



395 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Getting Jobless Men Back to Work

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Missing Fifth'' (column, May 10), David Brooks bemoans the fact that ''the United States has a smaller share of prime age men in the work force than any other G-7 nation.'' His proposed cure includes the usual conservative course of cutting back on Medicare and increasing self-reliance to ''reinvigorate'' the unemployed.
If the United States is doing worse than other G-7 nations in this regard, they must be doing something right that we do wrong. Each of those nations, of course, provides the safety net, including universal health care, that Mr. Brooks disparages. 
If other G-7 nations can both ''provide comfort'' to their citizens and have more success in putting prime age men to work, let's try what has worked for them instead of a mishmash of ideologically driven measures that remain unproved.
DIANE RUNYAN BECH Emerald Hills, Calif., May 10, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks points out that work force participation of ''prime working age'' men has declined since 1954. Unmentioned, however, is the corresponding increase in female participation in the American work force during the same time period.
I would caution Mr. Brooks not to assume that failure to participate in the formal economy means that these men are ''idle'' or ''missing.'' Perhaps they are doing some of the unsung work that women did for many years on their own: raising America's children and managing America's households.
HELEN P. O'REILLY New York, May 10, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks posits that the way to find money to invest in education programs to help unemployed men obtain 21st-century job skills is to cut spending on health care. There are many other places where money could be found: the defense budget, oil and agriculture subsidies, tax loopholes that allow companies like G.E. to pay little in taxes, to name a few.
Contrary to what the Republican Party is telling us, our country is not broke. There is enough money to do everything that is important -- if only we could agree on what that is. Economics is about values.
MARSHA BAILEY Santa Barbara, Calif., May 10, 2011
The writer is the founder and chief executive of Women's Economic Ventures.
To the Editor:
In asserting that the joblessness of 20 percent of America's working-age men and 35 percent of those without a high school degree is ''mostly structural, not cyclical,'' David Brooks points to two factors. One is the low skill level of most of these working-age men. The other is ''structural changes'' such as the trend to a service economy and the fact that many employers in some sectors ''are using machines or foreign workers'' instead of low-skill American workers.
The use of foreign workers in the American labor market is not a structural change, an inexorable condition of the economy or advancing technology. It is cyclical and political. It was enabled by, and can be reversed by, acts of Congress.
If we returned to the moderate immigration levels of the 1950s and 1960s, America would still be the most open society in the world by far. And millions of low-skill American workers would have access to jobs that now go to foreign workers, including millions of illegal immigrants.
America cannot develop and bring its jobless human capital into the work force while continuing to import foreign workers at high rates.
HILARY HINZMANN New York, May 10, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks writes that unemployment ''can't be addressed through the sort of short-term Keynesian stimulus some on the left are still fantasizing about.'' During the last terrible economic crisis, in the 1930s, direct employment programs provided jobs for millions of American men (and women). More recently, in the 1970s, the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act trained and employed millions of Americans in federally funded jobs.
A ''short-term'' jobs program would address the despair and hopelessness of some 14 million Americans now left jobless. The simple fact is that in our current recession, as in the Depression of the 1930s, our private capitalist economy cannot produce enough jobs for all, and this may last for many years unless government action is taken.
JOHN REEDER Arlington, Va., May 11, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROSS MacDONALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WOMEN (75%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



396 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: As Commodities Rebound, Major Indexes Close Higher

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stock markets in the United States rose while the dollar fell and commodities rebounded from an early slump led by China's efforts to curb lending.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.49 percent, or 6.57 points, to 1,348.65, reversing a decline from earlier in the day. The Dow Jones industrial average added 65.89 points, or 0.52 percent, to 12,695.92. The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against the currencies of six major trading partners, declined 0.2 percent, to 75.19. The Nasdaq rose 17.98 points, or 0.63 percent, to 2,863.04. 
''The more commodity-sensitive industries have been driving the market either up or down,'' said Wasif Latif, vice president for equity investments at USAA Investment Management in San Antonio. ''One sector's gain could be another sector's pain. The recent decline in oil may not be that good for energy companies. However, consumer staples will do better because of lower input costs.''
The S.& P. 500 has fallen 1.1 percent this month as gauges of energy and raw materials producers have slumped at least 4.2 percent. Still, the index is up 7.2 percent this year amid government stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated profits.
Earlier in the day, stocks fell after China raised reserve ratios for its largest lenders by 0.5 percentage point to a record 21 percent. The central bank's announcement followed reports on Wednesday showing inflation and lending exceeded economists' estimates in April, with consumer prices rising more than 5 percent for a second month.
Commodities rebounded from earlier losses as the dollar reversed a gain, bolstering the appeal of energy and raw-materials as alternative investments.
Cliffs Natural Resources, a large iron-ore producer, gained 1.7 percent to $87.19. Schlumberger, the oil-field services provider, added 1.5 percent to $83.52.
Symantec climbed 5.2 percent to $20.42. The company, a maker of security software, forecast higher revenue than analysts had predicted, bolstered by demand for data backup cloud-computing programs, and the effect of a weaker dollar on overseas sales.
Tyson added 4.6 percent, to $18.84, after it said it planned to buy back up to 22.5 million shares.
Cisco Systems tumbled 4.8 percent to $16.93. The company is revamping management and scaling back some businesses after losing share to rivals like Hewlett-Packard.
The yield on Treasury's 10-year note rose to 3.22 percent, from 3.16 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); CLOUD COMPUTING (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%)

COMPANY: USAA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (56%); CLIFFS NATURAL RESOURCES INC (53%); SYMANTEC CORP (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (51%)

TICKER: CLF (PAR) (53%); CLF (NYSE) (53%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (53%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



397 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BAGHDAD JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Bogged Down on Big Issues, Iraq Takes Aim at Smoking

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Yasir Ghazi and Omar al-Jawoshy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- In a country where the power blinks out several times a day, where filling up a gas tank can take hours and motorists stew in seemingly endless traffic jams, smoking is one thing that seems blissfully easy.
A pack of cigarettes costs as little as 25 cents. They are ubiquitous, sold from mud-brick huts along highways, from card tables set up on city sidewalks and at countless storefronts throughout Baghdad. And you can light up pretty much anywhere, from buses to elevators to hospitals. Even (or especially) inside the Iraqi Parliament. 
But following the lead of New York, London, Paris and scores of other Western cities, Iraqi lawmakers are now trying to push smoking to the margins of public life here, to the frustration of many of their constituents.
On Sunday, they are set to consider a law that would ban smoking from schools, universities, government offices and a wide range of private businesses, including restaurants and cafes. Billboards advertising cigarettes, which wallpaper commercial districts of Baghdad, would be outlawed. And cigarette companies would be forced to print harsher warning labels.
''This is an important issue,'' said Jawad al-Bazouni, a member of Parliament's Health Committee, which is pushing for the restrictions. ''The citizen can complain to the smoker. He will get the law on his side, and it will be reflected in the public health.''
But some Iraqis called Parliament's effort a quixotic waste of time by a legislature that has dithered on questions of greater import, like whether American troops should be allowed to stay past a withdrawal deadline of January 2012.
The prospects for passage of the tobacco ban are, well, cloudy, at best.
In the six months since competing factions quilted together a partnership government, Iraq's Parliament has passed about 10 laws, none of them highly controversial.
They have passed a budget, canceled some Saddam Hussein-era measures and moved to cut their own salaries and increase some public aid in response to calls for government reform.
Politicians in the Shiite-led government have also spent time on impassioned speeches defending fellow Shiite protesters in Bahrain, and took a day off in solidarity. After a tortured debate, they approved a procedure for selecting vice presidents, but have yet to name one.
Through this, Iraq's leaders have moved slowly on resolving the status of the disputed northern city of Kirkuk, an oil-rich prize that is one of Iraq's biggest trouble spots. They have not named ministers to lead the army and police forces, leaving a vacuum that some Iraqis blame for a recent spike in assassinations and other violence.
''There are more important issues they should be considering,'' said Aboud al-Dulaimi, who was sitting with two friends outside a tiki-themed hookah bar in downtown Baghdad. ''The government needs to pass laws to serve the people. They have more than three million unemployed, and they are busy with such laws.''
Sitting beside him, Abbas al-Janabi took a drag and declared, ''It's stupidity.''
Mr. Janabi, 46, said he had been a pack-a-day smoker in the 15 years before the 2003 American invasion. But in the chaos that followed, as he shut down his once prosperous factory, sold his house and moved abroad, Mr. Janabi said he began smoking more.
Now back in Baghdad after a brief exile in Dubai and Syria and living in a small apartment on Palestine Street, Mr. Janabi said he burned through four packs a day as he scavenged for work. He knows the habit may be his death, but he treats it with a fatalism commonly heard throughout Iraq.
''I know a cigarette will kill me one day, but I can't do anything about it,'' he said. ''I may get killed tomorrow. It's just fate.''
Parliament tried such a move once before, in 2009, but dropped the measure. It was reintroduced in April, and lawmakers have scheduled a second reading for Sunday, a necessary step toward passage.
Although smoking rates in Iraq lag far behind those in China, Russia and much of eastern Europe, few women or devout Muslims smoke, meaning that the rate among men is considerably higher. With Iraq's cigarette consumption among the highest in the Middle East, smoking is easily Baghdad's most widespread vice.
Bars and public alcohol consumption have rebounded as Iraq's streets have become safer to traverse at night, but Islamic prohibitions against drinking and raids of Baghdad's nightclubs have limited the spread of alcohol. At most cafes and restaurants, Iraqis sip fruit juice or tea instead of liquor, and content themselves with cigarettes and shisha -- flavored tobacco from ornate water pipes.
Ali Assan Ali said his shisha cafe would be devastated by an outright ban on smoking in public places. He said he had spent $400,000 to open the business and renovate a second-floor space, and said the proposed smoking restrictions were too broad.
''This is my life, this is my health,'' he said.
Nearby sat four friends, who expressed a similarly libertarian view.
''We are Iraqi,'' said Rami Sabah, 19. ''We like the shisha and the smoking. It's a good place for young people to just waste time.''
His friend Baraa Ghazi, 27, offered a broader pronouncement as he took a languid drag. ''This,'' he said, ''is freedom.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man smoking a hookah at a sidewalk cafe in the Sadr City neighborhood of Baghdad. Iraqi lawmakers are considering passing a law to ban smoking from a range of locations, including schools, universities, restaurants and cafes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING BANS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); ARMIES (72%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); RETAILERS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); BUDGETS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); BAHRAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



398 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Panel on Nuclear Waste Disposal to Propose Above-Ground Storage

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A commission created to help resolve the impasse over the disposal of the nation's nuclear waste will propose establishing one or more sites where used reactor fuel could be stored in steel and concrete structures on the earth's surface for decades, members of the commission said this week.
A draft recommendation for such sites is to be discussed on Friday at a meeting of the panel, which was set up last year by the Department of Energy after President Obama canceled a longstanding plan to bury waste at Yucca Mountain, a site in the Nevada desert. 
The commission will also recommend opening a new effort to find a burial site, members said, and suggest that it be led by an organization that is independent of the Department of Energy, which has been working on the waste disposal effort for decades.
Commission members say they will suggest securing the assent of local and state governments before a burial site is chosen. With a selection process that is based more on science than politics and the promise of local economic benefit, a host site could potentially be found, some of them said. Yucca Mountain was chosen by Congress in 1987 after a battle driven by not-in-my-backyard politics.
Friday's meeting will be the first public discussion of draft recommendations by the panel, which is scheduled to issue a draft report this summer and a final report next year.
The quest for a national repository for spent fuel has been a festering issue for decades but gained higher visibility after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami hit the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan. The disaster not only damaged reactors but led to the loss of cooling water in at least one pool of spent radioactive fuel, raising the risk of the release of radioactive materials.
At nuclear plants in the United States, pools of spent fuel are far more heavily loaded. The National Academy of Sciences warned in a study in 2005 that the presence of vast stores of radioactive fuel could make the plants an attractive target for terrorists.
For now, members of the waste commission say, the panel is unlikely to make a recommendation for starting work on two controversial disposal methods: reprocessing the spent fuel to recover plutonium for reuse, as France and Japan do, or building a new class of reactors that would break up the most troublesome wastes into materials that are easier to handle. Instead, it will recommend more research, the members said. ''Neither the technology nor the economics are ready to compel us to make a decision on that at this point,'' said Phillip A. Sharp, an Indiana Democrat on the commission.
The 2005 study by the National Academy of Sciences, ordered by Congress after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, made a variety of recommendations for nuclear waste disposal, some of which were kept secret. One obvious approach has been moving the fuel into dry casks, or steel and concrete structures in which the fuel is cooled by the natural circulation of air rather than any moving parts. Such casks are already in use at a variety of reactor sites.
The commission will recommended that storage of such casks be centralized at a handful of sites, starting with ''orphan'' sites where the reactors have been retired and torn down. The number of orphaned nuclear sites will grow significantly before the United States can establish a permanent burial place, commission members predict.
Some nuclear industry experts have been hoping for a stronger commitment to recycling, in which the fuel is chopped up and the plutonium that was created during reactor operations is scavenged and purified for use in new fuel. Leftover uranium is purified and could also be reused, but most of it is stockpiled. But recent studies argue that there is plenty of virgin uranium and thus no reason to recycle. And American utilities have been reluctant to use the plutonium fuel, even when asked by the Energy Department in an effort to help dispose of surplus plutonium from the weapons program.
Areva, the French nuclear company, has been arguing that recycling cuts the cost of disposal and eliminates the need to mine uranium, which itself is environmentally damaging. If the fuel is moved to above-ground casks, said David C. Jones, a senior vice president of the company, ''We're essentially back to where we were 30 years ago,'' when Congress first told the Energy Department to look for a burial site.
The draft recommendations to also include a plan to provide steady financing for the site selection and development process from money collected by utility companies that generate nuclear waste. Congress has been intermittently stingy in appropriating money, prodded partly by one of the opponents of the Yucca project, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader. Citing Senator Reid's stance, Republicans in Congress have in recent months stepped up their criticism of President Obama's decision to cancel the Yucca project, saying that it was driven purely by politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (69%); TERRORISM (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); TSUNAMIS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



399 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Scientists' Report Stresses Urgency of Limiting Greenhouse Gas Emissions

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
The nation's scientific establishment issued a stark warning to the American public on Thursday: Not only is global warming real, but the effects are already becoming serious and the need has become ''pressing'' for a strong national policy to limit emissions of heat-trapping gases.
The report, by the National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, did not endorse any specific legislative approach, but it did say that attaching some kind of price to emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, would ideally be an essential component of any plan. 
''The risks associated with doing business as usual are a much greater concern than the risks associated with engaging in ambitious but measured response efforts,'' the report concludes. ''This is because many aspects of an 'overly ambitious' policy response could be reversed or otherwise addressed, if needed, through subsequent policy change, whereas adverse changes in the climate system are much more difficult (indeed, on the time scale of our lifetimes, may be impossible) to 'undo.' ''
The report, ''America's Climate Choices,'' was ordered by Congress several years ago to offer ''action-oriented advice'' on how the nation should be reacting to the potential consequences of climate change.
But the answer comes at a time when efforts to adopt a climate-change policy have stalled in Washington, with many of the Republicans who control the House expressing open skepticism about the science of climate change. Other legislators, including some Democrats, worry that any new law would translate into higher energy prices and hurt the economy.
Not only is the science behind the climate-change forecast solid, the report found, but the risks to future generations from further inaction are profound. Already, the report noted, sea level is rising in many American towns and the average United States air temperature has increased by two degrees in the last 50 years.
The report's authors -- an unusual combination of climate scientists, businessmen and politicians -- said they were very aware that the political mood on climate change had changed significantly from when the committee was formed in 2009. Because the report was also about policy advice, the council named nonscientists, including Jim Geringer, a conservative Republican and a former governor of Wyoming.
Albert Carnesale, the chairman of the panel and a chancellor emeritus of the University of California, Los Angeles, said that he hoped the panel's diversity and that many came to the job without ''prior bias'' would help sell it even to skeptical policy makers.
''It is an urgent problem to turn to, and what we've done differently is to look at this as a risk management problem,'' Dr. Carnesale said.
While no one knows the exact shape of the risks, Dr. Carnesale said, we know that they are real enough to act on. And that they will be harder to act on as time passes. ''We don't know exactly when the tsunami will hit or how high it will be, but we know it is coming, and we should prepare,'' Dr. Carnesale said.
But Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, who has been leading the charge against further regulating carbon emissions, swiftly dismissed the council's findings in an interview Thursday. ''I see nothing substantive in this report that adds to the knowledge base necessary to make an informed decision about what steps -- if any -- should be taken to address climate change,'' Mr. Barton said.
Although the report characterizes climate change as a problem that urgently needs attention, it stops short of making highly specific policy prescriptions, leaving that to lawmakers.
To many worried about climate change, that is a common flaw of such reports.
''This is the classic problem -- the divide between scientific reality and political courage,'' said Paul W. Bledsoe, a senior adviser with the Bipartisan Policy Center who has worked in Congress and with the White House on these issues. ''The scientific organizations are reluctant to advocate detailed policy prescriptions, while political actors are tentative about the scientific realities.''
The report outlined four areas that demanded immediate action by the federal government.
For starters, it emphasized that reducing carbon emissions was critical to keeping the United States from having to make dire choices in the future. While stopping just short of recommending a carbon tax, the committee did praise its efficacy.
''Analyses suggest that the best way to amplify and accelerate such efforts, and to minimize overall costs (for any given national emissions reduction target), is with a comprehensive, nationally uniform, increasing price on'' carbon emissions enough to ''drive major investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies,'' the report said.
It also called on the federal government to play a much more active role in researching new technologies and in helping the nation adapt to the changes in the natural world that are already inevitable. Even with a reduction in carbon output, the report said, some climate change will continue to occur.
It noted that while many of the nations' cities and states are taking steps toward mitigating carbon output and preparing for hotter, wetter conditions, it suggested that the federal government could help coordinate these activities while also encouraging more research and development.
''The federal government,'' the report said, ''should immediately undertake the development of a national adaptation strategy and build durable institutions to implement that strategy and improve it over time.'' Finally, while this report was designed, in contrast to the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to be by Americans for Americans, the authors noted that climate change was a global problem and the nation had an obligation to remain engaged with the international community on possible solutions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Joe Barton rejected the recommendations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); POLITICS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%)

PERSON: JOE BARTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%) WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



400 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: NBC's 'Smash' Brings Stage to TV

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
3:26 p.m. Updated
Good news for New York theater actors (and Playbill collectors worldwide): NBC has picked up the musical comedy ''Smash,'' about the making of a Broadway show, for the 2011-12 television season, according to an executive involved with the new series.
With Steven Spielberg attached as a creator and executive producer, ''Smash'' also has several theater heavyweights already on board, including the playwright Theresa Rebeck (Broadway's ''Mauritius,'' Off Broadway's ''Understudy''); the songwriting team of Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman (Broadway's ''Catch Me if You Can,'' ''Hairspray''); and the Tony-winning director Michael Mayer (''Spring Awakening''), who oversaw the pilot and is expected to direct other episodes. The show is likely to be filmed in New York, meaning a good deal of cameo and guest appearances and extra work for actors in the city. 
''Most excited are the unemployed,'' Mr. Shaiman said in a joint telephone interview with Mr. Wittman on Thursday afternoon. Mr. Wittman added: ''It's going to be 'Law and Order' for Broadway.''
Mr. Shaiman countered: ''I got an email this morning from literally everyone in the theatrical community. Including two or three that I thought were dead.''
NBC was still deciding if ''Smash'' would have its debut in the fall (when dozens of shows have premieres) or in early 2012. A later start would presumably give the creators more time to write songs and stage Broadway-style production numbers, as well as provide a wintertime spotlight that would not be as crowded with new shows.
Mr. Shaiman and Mr. Wittman said the fictional musical being produced on ''Smash'' would be about Marilyn Monroe, and the series itself will focus on the musical's creation - from the original idea to opening night - while also chronicling the interior lives of its characters.
The composers said the songs on the show may emerge from the Marilyn Monroe musical or directly from the characters in their day-to-day experiences. ''You'll have to tune in to see,'' Mr. Wittman said. ''We're certainly playing with the form.''
The ''Smash'' pilot, which was produced this spring, stars Debra Messing (a theater-trained actress and an Emmy winner for NBC's ''Will & Grace'') as a lyricist. Christian Borle, most recently seen off Broadway in ''Peter and the Starcatcher,'' plays a gay composer who is Ms. Messing's songwriting partner; Jack Davenport (''Pirates of the Caribbean'') is the musical's director; the film actress Anjelica Huston plays its producer; Brian d'Arcy James (Broadway's ''Time Stands Still,'' ''Shrek the Musical'') plays Ms. Messing's husband; and Megan Hilty (Broadway's ''Wicked'') and Katharine McPhee (''American Idol'') are actresses competing for the Marilyn role.
Though he is not prone to getting excited about career opportunities (or anything else, really), Mr. Shaiman said: ''Even my depressed Jewish self -''
''His Eeyore self,'' Mr. Wittman interrupted.
''-I had one moment, it was around 10 seconds-'' Mr. Shaiman continued.
''He went, 'Wheee!'' Mr. Wittman interrupted again.
Mr. Shaiman concluded: ''And then quickly threw myself back into the underground bungalow.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); SONG WRITING (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); WRITERS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

 
