

401 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CIUDAD JUaREZ JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: A Bridge Spans the Gap Between Crime and Calm

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico -- The short trek from danger to calm starts before dawn. First, there is the grind of a turnstile -- total cost: 3 pesos, or 25 cents -- then thousands of legs push forward, broomlike, onto the Paso del Norte bridge and away from Ciudad Juarez.
It takes about 250 long strides to reach the middle, where the United States begins and the view changes slightly: a large billboard advertising Bud Light, in Spanish, practically blots out the sun. 
Most of the 14,000 people here who cross over the Rio Grande daily seem to barely notice. This mound of a bridge, which American officials estimate to be the busiest of all cross-border footpaths between Mexico and the United States, used to be just a simple connector between the shopping districts of Ciudad Juarez and El Paso. But these days, it has deeper meaning.
At no time in recent history has the reality gap between the two cities been wider. By some estimates, El Paso is now the safest big city in the United States; Ciudad Juarez is among the most dangerous in the world. Murders dominate the headlines on one side, economic growth and car accidents make news on the other.
The result is a morning walk north that can sound and feel like the line for an amusement park. The chatter among women waiting to shop is peppered with laughter. Children bounce. Vendors hawk food while a woman in a white dress with a guitar belts out humorous songs about why some are allowed to cross faster than others.
''It's just so much calmer and better over there,'' said Janet Burcia, 18, on her way from her home in Ciudad Juarez to visit her grandmother in El Paso. ''I go whenever I can.''
Access and speed, however, vary. On the right side of the bridge, in a line with waits of up to two hours, are Mexican citizens, including those with border crossing cards granted by the American Consulate to those not considered at risk of illegally remaining in the United States because of work or family. On the left, with far shorter waits -- and fancier clothes -- are people like Ms. Burcia, an American citizen born in Texas, and students who go to schools in El Paso.
Spending time in the United States is, of course, no guarantee of safety; last week, three Ciudad Juarez teenagers, including two American citizens who had attended schools in El Paso, were gunned down at a car dealership on the Mexican side of the border.
Still, the number of students crossing appears to be growing. Last April, after noticing an increase in morning foot traffic, United States Customs and Border Protection assigned a special lane to students who cross between 7 and 9, a result of a push by Mexican parents to place their children in American schools.
On one recent morning, Damaris Giron, 18, shy, in a blue pleated skirt and wearing heavy makeup, was one of many carrying book bags on the bridge. She said that all 25 of her classmates at a Methodist school in El Paso lived in Ciudad Juarez.
''There are more parents who are afraid,'' she said. Not that she was especially pleased with the commute. ''I get tired,'' she added, ''with all the back and forth.''
But she appeared to be one of the few unhappy crossers. Alejandra Cabral, 19, beamed when asked about the heavy engineering textbook she carried. Ms. Cabral said that she was in her second year at the University of Texas at El Paso, and that she planned to stay in Ciudad Juarez when she graduated.
''I want to do something like what they do at NASA,'' she said.
Most people in line had simpler plans.
Leticia Valenzuela, 53, was on her way to buy special milk and medicine for a child with a severe stomach illness.
Jose Hernandez, 21, was waiting with his skateboard, which he uses to get to work at a hospital in El Paso. Although he is a United States citizen, with an American father and a Mexican mother, he said he was in the slow line because thieves in Ciudad Juarez had stolen his car and his American passport.
Elizabeth Torres, 40, and her mother, Virginia Chavez, 59, were simply on their way to have a little fun. ''The first thing we're going to do is have some breakfast,'' said Ms. Torres, an office administrator. ''Then we're going to shop.''
Like many others in the line, Ms. Torres struggled to articulate what it now means to cross from one place to the other. One on hand, it is still routine -- from the mountains on either side of the border, Ciudad Juarez and El Paso look like one city. On the other hand -- Ms. Torres exhaled and loosened her arms to show how much more relaxed people feel on the El Paso side.
''We don't even have to hold tightly to our bags,'' Ms. Torres's mother said.
That is, until the day ends. By sundown, when the desert sky burns the orange-pink of a Georgia O'Keeffe painting, the foot traffic picks up again, heading in the opposite direction. Once empty arms are now full, with bags from Wal-Mart and American Eagle Outfitters.
A guitarist still sings, but this time it is a man, and the Mexicans walking by are no longer in a rush. There is no special line to hurry into Ciudad Juarez. No one on the Mexican side is checking to make sure people's documents are in order.
At dusk, the laughter has turned to silence. Each step across the bridge seems to be just a little bit slower, each smile a little harder to see.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The wait can be up to two hours to cross the Paso del Norte bridge over the Rio Grande from Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, to El Paso.
 Fourteen thousand people cross the Paso del Norte daily. Heading to Texas, the atmosphere can feel like an amusement park's. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Ciudad Juarez and El Paso can appear to be one city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); CHILDREN (87%); MUSIC (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); SHOOTINGS (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (61%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (96%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



402 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Aid Dropping, Texas Schools Must Scramble To Save Money

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY

 BODY:
HUTTO, Tex. -- The school superintendent in this rural town outside the state capital has taken steps to trademark the district's oddly un-Texan school mascot -- the Hutto Hippo -- in a frantic effort to raise cash. He is also planning to put advertisements on school buses and to let retailers have space on the school Web site.
''I'm doing some weird stuff in the district because we are low on money,'' said the superintendent, Douglas Killian, sitting in an office full of Hippo figurines.
He added, ''We hope to make our hippo as recognizable as Mickey Mouse.'' (The mascot was adopted shortly after a hippopotamus escaped from a circus train in 1915 and took up temporary residence in a local creek.) 
But the money expected from the sale of ''Hustling Hippos'' merchandise would be peanuts compared with the hole expected to open up in the district's budget, as the Legislature moves to slash about $4.8 billion in state aid to schools over two years to close a budget gap.
So Mr. Killian and the beleaguered school board have agreed to shut down a recently built grade school and to cut a 10th of the staff, among them a principal, 2 assistant principals, 4 librarians and 38 teachers. That round of staff cuts is a just first step, he says, and layoffs will follow if the budget bills proposed in the Legislature are enacted without changes.
All across Texas, school superintendents are bracing for the largest cuts to public education since World War II, and the state is not alone. Schools across the country are in trouble as billions in emergency stimulus grants from the federal government have run out, and state and federal lawmakers have interpreted the victory of fiscal hawks in November's midterm elections to mean that tax increases are out of the question.
Nowhere has that political trend been more potent than in Texas, where Republicans who ran on a promise to never raise taxes not only retained every statewide office, but also added to their majorities in both houses of the Legislature.
Gov. Rick Perry, easily re-elected in November, made it clear in his annual speech to lawmakers last week that he regarded raising revenue for schools as out of the question, saying Texas families ''sent a pretty clear message with their November votes.'' He has also refused to consider using $9.4 billion in a reserve fund to bail out the schools.
''They want government to be even leaner and more efficient,'' Mr. Perry said, ''and they want us to balance the budget without raising taxes on families and employers.''
To balance the budget with cuts alone, the governor and Republican leaders in the Legislature have put forth bills that would reduce the state's public school budget by at least 13 percent -- nearly $3.5 billion a year -- and would provide no new money to schools for about 85,000 new students that arrive in Texas every year. School administrators predict that as many as 100,000 school employees would have to be laid off to absorb the cuts.
Not only are the proposed cuts to school aid draconian, but in addition the Legislature in 2006 put strict limits on how much districts can raise local property taxes. That means local school boards find themselves trapped amid rising enrollment, double-digit drops in state aid and frozen local taxes.
Many school administrators attribute the current budget crisis to an overhaul of the school finance system five years ago, which Mr. Perry and Republican leaders pushed through in response to popular anger over high property taxes. The Legislature put a cap on property taxes for schools and promised to make up the difference with a new business tax. But that tax has never produced enough revenue to make the districts' budgets whole.
The chronic shortfall in money for schools was papered over in the last two-year budget passed in 2009. Mr. Perry and Republican leaders in the Legislature used about $3.3 billion in federal aid under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to plug the hole. That aid has disappeared this year.
''We had a problem before the shortfall ever occurred,'' said John M. Folks, the superintendent of Northside Independent School District in San Antonio. ''Now we have put this shortfall on top of an already horrible funding situation.''
Mr. Folks said the proposed budget bills would require him to cut about a sixth of his budget, and he sees see no way to avoid laying off teachers and letting classes become larger.
That view was echoed by administrators in districts large and small, from tiny rural districts with one high school and a six-man football team to the giant urban districts in Houston and Dallas.
In Austin, school administrators on Friday recommended in a letter to the school board that 1,000 jobs -- roughly 8 percent of the work force -- be cut to balance the budget, while in Dallas officials on Thursday proposed cutting about 4,000 positions.
Terry Grier, the superintendent in Houston, said the city stood to lose 15 percent to 20 percent of its total budget. The district could still raise the local property tax rate a few cents and stay under the state-imposed cap, but it would produce nowhere near enough to cover the loss of state money, Mr. Grier said. One way to cushion the blow, he said, would be to lift state rules on class size and to let administrators single out unproductive teachers for layoffs, regardless of their seniority. ''Let us get out from under some of these state mandates,'' he said.
Even relatively wealthy suburban districts are in trouble. Officials in the Clear Creek Independent School District south of Houston, which serves the communities around NASA, estimate they would have to cut about 975 jobs -- about a fifth of the work force. Like most other administrators, Superintendent Greg Smith is urging the Legislature to tap into the Rainy Day Fund instead of making the cuts. ''It's not raining,'' he said. ''It's pouring.''
On Thursday night in Hutto, two school board members wept as they read the motion to close Veterans' Hill Elementary School, a sleek building that opened in 2008 amid wheat fields and horse paddocks.
''In the 10 years I've been on this board, this is the hardest decision I've ever had to make,'' said Sheila Knapp, the board's vice president. ''I'm very angry with the Legislature for putting us in this position and affecting our kids this way.''
Michele Bischoffberger, the principal at Veterans' Hill, said the school was built just before the economic downturn, when Hutto was growing rapidly as developers built suburbs for workers at high-tech companies around Austin.
''All this land out here was supposed to be houses, but when the crash came, that didn't happen,'' Ms. Bischoffberger said, gesturing at nearby fields.
She recounted wistfully how she helped design the school, insisting on elements like a large gymnasium and a computer lab. ''It's your baby,'' she said. ''Being a new principal, this is where you get to make your dreams come true. It's going to be hard to walk away.''
The 475 children at the school will be divided among the district's other four elementary schools, and the entire fifth grade will be moved to the two middle schools to make room. The shuttered school -- with its library, computer lab and state-of-the-art classrooms -- will be mothballed or rented out to a community college, Ms. Bischoffberger said.
Plans to start a garden to be used as an outdoor classroom this spring have been scotched, killing a long-held dream for Vanessa Henson, a kindergarten teacher who had raised money from local businesses for the project.
''I don't know about the politics,'' Ms. Henson said, breaking into tears. ''I just know something went awry.''
Some young teachers and support staff members said they were uneasy, since it was unclear if they would have jobs in September. Sharon Case, the school librarian, is among those whose job is on the line. She has two children in college and works nights as a cashier at Wal-Mart.
''I'm just doing a lot of praying and depending on God to know where I'm supposed to be,'' Ms. Case said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Veterans' Hill Elementary in Hutto, Tex., is being closed to save money. Officials are also trying to market the district's hippo mascot, a statue of which is in front of the school. (A16)
 Case Sherva, a fifth grader at Veterans' Hill, helping Paul Suddeth lower the Texas flag last week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (67%); TAX INCREASES (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); WORLD WAR II (63%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



403 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: City Opera's New Chairman Is Singing an Uplifting Aria

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
It could not have sounded like the most enticing offer: become the chairman of New York City Opera, which had a $20 million deficit in 2009, raided its endowment to pay off debts and cut its season to just five productions. But Charles R. Wall, who took over as the opera's chairman on Jan. 1, nonetheless signed on.
As a member of the opera's board from 2001 to 2008, Mr. Wall was familiar with the company's troubles: the much-heralded Gerard Mortier quit as general manager in 2008 before he even officially started; the opera went dark for a season as its home -- the David H. Koch Theater, which it shares with New York City Ballet -- underwent renovation; revenue had plunged to $6 million for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, down from $33 million the year before, according to the company's tax return.
Many in the opera world speculated about whether City Opera could -- or should -- survive. But now, Mr. Wall says, a comeback is already under way. 
''I think we've made a huge turnaround with George Steel from a real low point,'' he said, referring to the company's general manager and artistic director, who started in 2009. ''I didn't approach it for a moment thinking it couldn't be done.''
In his first interview since taking over, Mr. Wall said that fund-raising is on track to be the highest ever -- though he declined to disclose how much had been pledged -- and that City Opera expected to post a balanced budget by the end of its fiscal year, this June.
The company got strong reviews for its two productions in the fall, Christopher Alden's staging of Leonard Bernstein's neglected opera ''A Quiet Place,'' and Strauss's ''Intermezzo.'' The season will resume at the Koch Theater on March 22 with Donizetti's ''Elixir of Love.'' It will be followed on March 25 by ''Monodramas,'' a new work mingling several operas; and a new piece, ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon'' by Stephen Schwartz (best-known for his musical-theater works like ''Wicked''), which will have its debut on April 19.
''City Opera has been through a prolonged transition,'' said Marc A. Scorca, the president and chief executive of Opera America, the major service organization in the field. ''Interrupted subscriber and donor loyalty has to be carefully reconstructed.''
Mr. Wall said he was determined to grow the company financially and artistically, despite City Opera's recent history and the tough economy.
''Maybe I'm a fool -- I hope not,'' he said. ''If you don't set your sights high, you're not going to make it.''
Mr. Wall spent the last two years as the vice chairman of Philip Morris International in Switzerland. After he decided to retire and move back to New York, the outgoing chairwoman, Susan L. Baker, suggested he succeed her.
''I thought it would be interesting,'' he said. ''I thought I could help them.''
He noted the progress that has already been made under Mr. Steel, chiefly positive critical response to his first productions. In The New York Times in December, Anthony Tommasini said, ''Mr. Steel would seem to be doing everything right to present opera as a living, breathing form of theater and offer works that you are not likely to see next door at the Metropolitan Opera.''
As to whether New York can support two major opera companies, Mr. Wall said that question had been answered by City Opera's endurance since its founding in 1943.
''The organization has a long history in New York City -- it is truly an important icon,'' he said. ''So it certainly is worth every effort to keep it going, improve it, keep it around.''
The biggest challenge before him? Raising money.
''I knew it was going to take fund-raising, fund-raising, fund-raising,'' he said. ''We call it 'The Turnaround Campaign.' I call it 'The Keep It Going Campaign.' ''
He has an ambitious agenda. Mr. Wall said he wanted to increase the endowment to $200 million from about $10 million in five years. ''It sends a message to the community that you've got a substantial financial underpinning,'' he said.
In the next two years he wants to increase the number of board members to 60, the maximum permitted by the bylaws, from 37. He wants to double each trustee's annual donation to $100,000 from $50,000. And, Mr. Wall said, board members should be stepping up year-round to give.
He also wants to extend City Opera's season beyond three months.
''We seem like the Brigadoon of the entertainment world,'' he said. ''We appear and we're gone. In order to make an impression, you've got to be around a little longer.''
''I'd like to see us do six months of performances,'' he added. ''It just seems to me that we ought to be doing more than three months if we're going to be taken seriously, if we're going to come back all the way. That seems to me to be a more serious opera company. Can we get there? We'll try.''
Mr. Steel, who has in the past described the ''right size'' of a City Opera season to be 8 to 10 operas, said he shared Mr. Wall's interests, though both face the hurdle of having to work around the ballet, to which the opera recently ceded part of its fall schedule in exchange for some relief from its payments for the building.
''I think he and I agree we want to have a bigger footprint,'' Mr. Steel said. ''More productions and more performances.''
Mr. Wall said part of his strategy could lie in marketing, getting the message out to people that City Opera was doing the kinds of productions audiences should want to see -- to say, ''We've come back and so should you.''
Mr. Wall was originally brought onto the City Opera board by Murray H. Bring, whom he succeeded as Philip Morris's general counsel. Opera was not Mr. Wall's first love. Though he counts himself ''a fan,'' he said that he was more familiar with symphonic music and that he was a die-hard fan of the American musical. And while '' 'Parsifal' is not something I would rush to see,'' Mr. Wall said, referring to the complex Wagner opera, he added that City Opera must continue to fulfill its mission of doing productions that may not immediately draw crowds.
''If I put on 'La Boheme,' people will come -- or 'La Traviata' or Lauren Flanigan in 'Elizabeth,' '' he said. ''But part of it is educating them to want to come to something they don't know about.''
At the same time, ''we've got to sell tickets,'' Mr. Wall said. ''If there are four people in the audience, something's not working.''
Nor can the opera ''just raise ticket prices,'' he added. ''We're supposed to be putting on operas for the people of New York City at reasonable costs.''
While fund-raising has not been a large part of his portfolio, Mr. Wall said he nevertheless felt ready to make the pitch.
''It takes a little perseverance sometimes,'' he said. ''You wear people down. The ship is not foundering. The ship is rising. This is the chance to keep it rising.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Wall (C1)
 New York City Opera's fall presentations included Richard Strauss's ''Intermezzo.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); OPERA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BALLET (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



404 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain After Decline In China's Trade Surplus

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks were mostly higher on Monday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to an almost 32-month high, helped by optimism about Egypt's democratic transition plan and a decline in China's trade surplus. 
Schlumberger and Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold rallied on optimism about Chinese demand for commodities. Netflix rose 7.1 percent after Caris & Company raised its forecast for the share price of the DVD rental company. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's biggest retailer, dropped 1.6 percent as JPMorgan Chase cut its recommendation on the shares. GameStop slumped 2 percent after the video game retailer was downgraded at Piper Jaffray.
The S.&. P. 500 advanced 3.17 points, or 0.24 percent to 1,332.32, the highest level since June 2008. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 5.07 points, or 0.04 percent, to 12,268.19. The Nasdaq rose 7.74 points, or 0.28 percent, to 2,817.18.
''This is a profit-driven recovery on top of good economic figures,'' said Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James in St. Petersburg, Fla. ''Does the overbought condition change the fundamental backdrop? I'd say not at all. China has been giving indications that growth will not slow. In Egypt, we see some relief, but a lot depends on whether they do what they're planning to do.''
Producers of energy and raw materials had the two biggest gains in the S.& P. 500 among 10 industries, rising at least 1 percent. Copper rallied after a report of higher imports in China, the world's largest user of industrial metals. Copper imports rose 5.7 percent in January from the previous month, after a 2 percent decline in December.
Schlumberger, the world's largest oilfield services provider, gained 2.4 percent, to $92.24. Freeport, the biggest publicly traded copper producer, rallied 4.9 percent, to $56.14.
Kellogg advanced 0.7 percent, to $53.48, after regulatory filings showed that billionaire Nelson Peltz's hedge funds bought a $150 million stake last quarter.
The funds, including Trian Partners General Partner, based in New York, held 2.78 million Kellogg shares on Dec. 31, according to three documents filed on Monday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Shares of Netflix rose to $247.55. The DVD rental company had its share-price estimate increased to $316, from $224, by Caris & Company.
Wal-Mart closed at $54.80. The retailer was cut to ''neutral'' from ''overweight'' at JPMorgan, which cited a lack of positive catalysts to move the stock higher and loss of market share in a number of consumer goods categories at the retailer, which reports earnings next week.
Clorox slipped 6.2 percent, to $66.85, after it was cut to ''neutral'' by UBS and ''underperform'' by Bank of America.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 2/32, to 100 1/32, and the yield slipped to 3.62 percent, from 3.63 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CHEMICALS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); MARKET SHARE (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (72%); WAL-MART STORES INC (72%); NETFLIX INC (57%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); FCX (NYSE) (72%); WMT (NYSE) (72%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); PJC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (72%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (72%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (72%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (72%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (72%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (72%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (72%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (72%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (72%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (72%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (72%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (72%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); EGYPT (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



405 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Partying Amid Poverty Makes Stark Contrast in South Africa

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
SANDTON, South Africa -- Kenny Kunene, a former gangster turned businessman, gave what he called ''the mother of all parties'' for his 40th birthday. With his small paunch protruding from a white tuxedo and his eyes hidden behind Roberto Cavalli sunglasses, he ate sushi from the belly of a woman who was wearing nothing but black lingerie and high heels while hundreds of guests looked on.
As the revelers got tipsy on his liquor, he says he treated the most important among them -- including Zizi Kodwa, President Jacob Zuma's stylish spokesman, and Julius Malema, the rabble-rousing leader of the governing party's youth wing -- to $1,300 bottles of Dom Perignon. Like the American rappers he emulates, Mr. Kunene himself swigged a bottle of Armand de Brignac Champagne that goes for more than $1,500 at his posh nightclub, ZAR, perched on the roof of a five-star hotel. 
His October bash here in Sandton, a Johannesburg suburb often described as the wealthiest square mile in Africa, and another sushi-eating party that Mr. Kunene hosted recently in Cape Town, have turned him into a peculiarly South African sensation. His antics set off raucous bickering in the governing alliance about the conspicuous consumption of a politically networked black elite in a country where the majority of young blacks do not even have jobs.
Zwelinzima Vavi, leader of Cosatu, the powerful trade union federation allied with the governing African National Congress, accused Mr. Kunene of ''spitting on the face of the poor'' and declared that parties where people who have gotten rich in dubious ways flaunt their wealth ''turn my stomach.''
Mr. Kunene, who says he supports the A.N.C.'s Youth League with his time and money, promptly retorted that his was ''honest money spent on honest fun.'' He describes his success as proof of the nation's democracy, and he told Mr. Vavi, who is also black: ''You remind me of what it felt like to live under apartheid. You are telling me, a black man, what I can and cannot do with my life.''
The Kunene story has crystallized a recurring question about life in post-apartheid South Africa: Is the accumulation and exhibition of such wealth a sign that blacks have finally arrived after an era when whites hogged the high life, or is it evidence of a moral decay undermining Nelson Mandela's once great liberation movement?
''It raises in such wonderfully stark terms what freedom is and what one does with it,'' said Jonny Steinberg, an author and one of the many newspaper columnists who commented on the events. ''The idea that one uses it to get rich, and ostentatiously so, and that this is the most important dividend of freedom, is very powerful.''
In recent months, the spectacle of eating sushi from a woman's body -- perhaps familiar to Americans from Samantha's escapades on ''Sex and the City'' -- has been a source of both lurid fascination and ridicule here. A cartoon by the Mail & Guardian's Zapiro, titled ''The Last Sushi,'' depicts a naked woman lying on a long table with well-known businessmen and politicians feasting on the fishy bits that decorate her curves.
That Mr. Kunene, a small-time player in South African politics, has vaulted onto the front pages underscores how salient the issue of economic inequality has become in South Africa, a country that by some estimates has the worst disparities of wealth in the world.
But the focus on Mr. Kunene, nicknamed the Sushi King by headline writers, is also a tribute to his obvious gifts for self-promotion and self-reinvention.
He was raised by his unemployed mother (an evangelical faith healer), his grandfather (a retired English teacher), and his grandmother (a midwife and the family's only earner) in a black township outside of Odendaalsrus in what is now the Free State. The family could never afford to give him a birthday party, he said, and he always craved luxuries.
When he was a teenager during apartheid, he said he and his friends picked out the houses and cars in wealthy white areas they fantasized would one day be theirs. He dreamed of Porsches. ''The objective was to overthrow the government and take everything that the white man had,'' he said.
Like his grandfather, he became a high school English teacher. To earn extra money, he opened a small saloon, eavesdropped on gangsters and joined them, hijacking cars, robbing businesses and dreaming up ways to trick people out of their money, he said.
''My heart was not into armed robberies,'' he said. ''My heart was more into fraud because I'm a thinker.''
But he was caught and convicted in 1997 of helping run a Ponzi scheme. His case alone listed more than 1,900 victims, he said. He served six years in prison. After his release, he went into business with Gayton McKenzie, a bank robber he had befriended behind bars. They sold a book that Mr. McKenzie wrote about quitting a life of crime, and marketed Mr. McKenzie's motivational speeches to schools and corporate groups.
They invested their earnings in a fish distribution business, Mr. Kunene said, and then started working as consultants to diamond and gold mining companies, helping manage testy relations with restive local communities and navigate the shoals of government regulation in a country governed by a black majority.
Last year, Mr. Kunene and Mr. McKenzie helped Gold Fields, a major gold producer, retain its mining rights to the South Deep mine southwest of Johannesburg, which the company describes as ''one of the greatest undeveloped ore bodies in the world.''
''It's a lot of political lobbying work,'' explained Sven Lunsche, a Gold Fields spokesman.
At Mr. Kunene's swanky apartment in Sandton, a snapshot of him with President Zuma is displayed in the living room. On his iPad, he flicked through photographs taken at his birthday party, showing pictures of him with the men he called ''Zizi and Julius'' -- Mr. Zuma's spokesman and the Youth League leader, Mr. Malema.
At the Cape Town party on Jan. 29, Mr. Malema was quoted as saying that Mr. Kunene's club belonged to the A.N.C., but he later issued a statement insisting that he had said only that black people have a right to own a club in ''predominantly white territory.''
Mr. Malema's comments prompted Gwede Mantashe, the party's secretary general, to starchily insist that the A.N.C. ''is not into nightclubs or partying, but it is a revolutionary movement. We furthermore reiterate our condemnation to the act of serving sushi on a woman's body.''
Mr. Kunene this month bowed to his party's wishes and foreswore sushi parties, but he could not resist noting that in South Africa, the rainbow nation, ''I ate sushi off a black girl in Johannesburg. In Cape Town, I ate it off a white girl. I was intending to eat it off an Indian girl in Durban.''
Mr. Kunene has leapt into a life of fame and money, but often on Mondays he gets into one of his Porsches and makes the short drive to the poor and working-class township of Alexandra. ''I don't forget where I come from,'' he said.
There he drinks with the regulars at a small bar, the Stoop, and eats a plate of tripe like his mother used to make. House music pumps from speakers, echoing over the township hillside, sparkling with tiny lights.
Last Monday, he left his nightclub, with its purple velvet couches, mirrored wall and sensational views of the Sandton skyline, dressed to impress in $2,000 jeans (''Billionaire brand,'' he said, ''the most expensive in the world''), pointy-toed purple Italian shoes and a matching belt.
As the evening wore on at the bar in Alex, as the township is sometimes called, men in shirtsleeves who had just finished work gave way to young women with glossy lips who were in a party mood. Mr. Kunene, sitting in a molded plastic chair, nursed his Belvedere vodka and soda and updated his Facebook page.
''Chilling at the Stoop,'' he wrote. ''The township is the bomb.''
Instantly, he had a rush of responses from some of the thousands of people who have added him as a friend since his birthday party made news.
''Can I join u?'' posted one.
''Lucky you,'' wrote another.
''Why was I not invited?'' asked a third. ''Is there sushi?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenny Kunene, center, a convicted swindler whose business dealings have gained him access to South Africa's elite, has raised eyebrows with his lifestyle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG MARINOVICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''I ate sushi off a black girl in Johannesburg,'' Mr. Kunene said. ''In Cape Town, I ate it off a white girl.'' He says there will be no more sushi parties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESA ALEXANDER/THE SUNDAY TIMES, VIA GALLO IMAGES) (A4)
 Zwelinzima Vavi, a labor leader, has criticized Kenny Kunene, accusing him of ''spitting on the face of the poor.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADINE HUTTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (84%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); YOUTH SPORTS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS OF SOUTH AFRICAN TRADE UNIONS (54%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (73%) SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



406 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Cuts Forecast, Citing Fuel and Weather

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
FedEx on Monday sharply cut its quarterly profit forecast, citing higher fuel costs and severe winter weather that disrupted delivery operations in the United States and Europe.
The delivery company now expects an adjusted profit of 70 to 90 cents a share for its fiscal third quarter, which ends Feb. 28. That is down from its earlier forecast for a profit of 95 cents to $1.15 a share. 
Analysts surveyed by FactSet expect FedEx to post a profit of $1.06 a share, on average.
The company's updated forecast assumes no further weather disruptions and stable fuel prices for the rest of the quarter. FedEx, based in Memphis, said those factors would also affect its full-year forecast, to be updated when the company reports third-quarter numbers on March 17.
FedEx has faced unusually high costs from winter storms, said Alan B. Graf Jr., its chief financial officer. Parts of the Northeast and Midwest have been hit by unusually heavy snow this winter, disrupting airport operations and ground travel. Ice and snow have hit areas as far south as Georgia and Texas.
Mr. Graf also said that fuel costs continued to rise since the company provided a financial forecast in mid-December. Jet fuel prices are up about 13 percent since then.
However, Mr. Graf said FedEx continued to experience strength in its business across all transportation segments and geographic regions. The company and its larger rival, United Parcel Service, are bellwethers of global economic health because they ship a variety of goods.
In its previous quarter, which ended in November, FedEx reported net income of $283 million, or 89 cents a share, down 18 percent from the same quarter a year earlier. The company said higher fuel costs were among the factors that hurt results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WEATHER (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); JET FUEL (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); AIRPORT OPERATION (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (54%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); UPS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



407 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: In Northwest, a Clash Over a Coal Operation

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- A plan to build the United States' first West Coast facility for exporting coal to Asia has come under increased scrutiny after the disclosure of documents suggesting that the company proposing the project did not convey the full scope of its plans to state regulators here in Washington.
The project, which would be built on the Columbia River in Longview, Wash., received preliminary approval from Cowlitz County commissioners late last year but has been delayed by a legal challenge by environmentalists. 
They claim that supporters of the facility -- which would transfer coal brought by train from Montana and elsewhere to barges bound for China and other parts of Asia -- have not adequately measured the pollution that could be caused by shipping the coal and then burning it overseas.
The project has been has controversial because it pits the economic ambitions of Western states like Montana, which has vast coal reserves, and Washington, which depends heavily on trade with Asia, against the Northwest's well-established environmental principles and clean energy goals. The Port of Vancouver in British Columbia already exports American coal, but political opposition has played a role in keeping coal out of United States ports so far. Another facility is being proposed near Bellingham, Wash.
A hearing in the Longview case is not set until April, but documents released as part of the discovery process suggest that the fight will only escalate in the interim.
Court records show that leaders of the company planning to build the facility, now called Millennium Bulk Terminals, tried to limit what state officials knew about its long-term goals during the early permitting process last year. The company's initial application described a facility that could export up to five million tons of coal per year. But court records show that the company hoped to greatly expand that amount in a second phase to 20 million tons or even 60 million tons annually.
Constrained by a narrow window for construction -- called the ''fish window'' because it is based on when salmon in the river would be least affected -- Millennium wanted to work fast but without jeopardizing relationships it had developed with state agency officials, records show.
''It is fair to say that all agencies have worked positively and constructively with Millennium but cautiously as they are out of their comfort zones in progressing the permits in such a tight timeframe,'' Jeff Torkington, Millennium's chief executive until October, wrote to the company's board and other executives that month.
Even as he urged the company, a spinoff of Ambre Energy of Australia, to use ''ongoing transparency'' with the state, Mr. Torkington wrote that Millennium should deliberately wait at least two months before proposing an expansion. Otherwise, he wrote, ''Millennium will be perceived as having deceived the agencies'' and the company's ''good reputation would be lost overnight.''
Earthjustice, a nonprofit environmental law firm representing opponents of the project in court, filed a motion in court last week asking to add the new documents to its appeal of the project permit. Opponents say state law requires that the project be evaluated for the environmental impact it could have in its complete form.
''I love the part that says Millennium 'will be perceived as having deceived,' '' said Gayle Kiser, a resident of Cowlitz County and a volunteer for Columbia Riverkeeper, an environmental group opposing the project. ''They knew darn well what they were about in keeping this quiet.''
Millennium referred questions to Joe Cannon, the company's new chief executive. Mr. Torkington now runs North American operations for Ambre. Mr. Cannon said that while Millennium hoped to eventually expand the facility, it had no plans to do so within the next year. He said the court documents simply showed the company exploring various ideas it had so far decided not to pursue.
''I can't put a really nice face on what he said,'' Mr. Cannon said of Mr. Torkington's memorandum. ''This is like an engineer talking to other engineers about this strange new process in the state of Washington.''
Janice Adair, the special assistant for climate and energy issues to Ted Sturdevant, the director of the Washington Department of Ecology, said the state was just beginning to review the new documents.
''It certainly raises concerns for us,'' Ms. Adair said of Mr. Torkington's memo. '' 'Raising eyebrows' is a good way to describe it. But we really have to assess the full documents and what they mean and have our own internal conversations as well about how it affects the full project.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (91%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COAL MINING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COUNTIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); TRAINS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (70%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (70%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



408 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; SMARTER THAN YOU THINK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: A Fight to Win the Future: Computers vs. Humans

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
STANFORD, Calif. -- At the dawn of the modern computer era, two Pentagon-financed laboratories bracketed Stanford University. At one laboratory, a small group of scientists and engineers worked to replace the human mind, while at the other, a similar group worked to augment it.
In 1963 the mathematician-turned-computer scientist John McCarthy started the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. The researchers believed that it would take only a decade to create a thinking machine.
Also that year the computer scientist Douglas Engelbart formed what would become the Augmentation Research Center to pursue a radically different goal -- designing a computing system that would instead ''bootstrap'' the human intelligence of small groups of scientists and engineers.
For the past four decades that basic tension between artificial intelligence and intelligence augmentation -- A.I. versus I.A. -- has been at the heart of progress in computing science as the field has produced a series of ever more powerful technologies that are transforming the world. 
Now, as the pace of technological change continues to accelerate, it has become increasingly possible to design computing systems that enhance the human experience, or now -- in a growing number of cases -- completely dispense with it.
The implications of progress in A.I. are being brought into sharp relief now by the broadcasting of a recorded competition pitting the I.B.M. computing system named Watson against the two best human Jeopardy players, Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter.
Watson is an effort by I.B.M. researchers to advance a set of techniques used to process human language. It provides striking evidence that computing systems will no longer be limited to responding to simple commands. Machines will increasingly be able to pick apart jargon, nuance and even riddles. In attacking the problem of the ambiguity of human language, computer science is now closing in on what researchers refer to as the ''Paris Hilton problem'' -- the ability, for example, to determine whether a query is being made by someone who is trying to reserve a hotel in France, or simply to pass time surfing the Internet.
If, as many predict, Watson defeats its human opponents on Wednesday, much will be made of the philosophical consequences of the machine's achievement. Moreover, the I.B.M. demonstration also foretells profound sociological and economic changes.
Traditionally, economists have argued that while new forms of automation may displace jobs in the short run, over longer periods of time economic growth and job creation have continued to outpace any job-killing technologies. For example, over the past century and a half the shift from being a largely agrarian society to one in which less than 1 percent of the United States labor force is in agriculture is frequently cited as evidence of the economy's ability to reinvent itself.
That, however, was before machines began to ''understand'' human language. Rapid progress in natural language processing is beginning to lead to a new wave of automation that promises to transform areas of the economy that have until now been untouched by technological change.
''As designers of tools and products and technologies we should think more about these issues,'' said Pattie Maes, a computer scientist at the M.I.T. Media Lab. Not only do designers face ethical issues, she argues, but increasingly as skills that were once exclusively human are simulated by machines, their designers are faced with the challenge of rethinking what it means to be human.
I.B.M.'s executives have said they intend to commercialize Watson to provide a new class of question-answering systems in business, education and medicine. The repercussions of such technology are unknown, but it is possible, for example, to envision systems that replace not only human experts, but hundreds of thousands of well-paying jobs throughout the economy and around the globe. Virtually any job that now involves answering questions and conducting commercial transactions by telephone will soon be at risk. It is only necessary to consider how quickly A.T.M.'s displaced human bank tellers to have an idea of what could happen.
To be sure, anyone who has spent time waiting on hold for technical support, or trying to change an airline reservation, may welcome that day. However, there is also a growing unease about the advances in natural language understanding that are being heralded in systems like Watson. As rapidly as A.I.-based systems are proliferating, there are equally compelling examples of the power of I.A. -- systems that extend the capability of the human mind.
Google itself is perhaps the most significant example of using software to mine the collective intelligence of humans and then making it freely available in the form of a digital library. The search engine was originally based on a software algorithm called PageRank that mined human choices in picking Web pages that contained answers to a particular typed query and then quickly ranked the matches by relevance.
The Internet is widely used for applications that employ a range of human capabilities. For example, experiments in Web-based games designed to harness the human ability to recognize patterns -- which still greatly exceeds what is possible by computer -- are generating a new set of scientific tools. Games like FoldIt, EteRNA and Galaxy Zoo make it possible for individuals to compete and collaborate in fields like astronomy to biology, medicine and possibly even material science.
Personal computing was the first step toward intelligence augmentation that reached a broad audience. It created a generation of ''information workers,'' and equipped them with a set of tools for gathering, producing and sharing information. Now there is a cyborg quality to the changes that are taking place as personal computing has evolved from desktop to laptop and now to the smartphones that have quickly become ubiquitous.
The smartphone is not just a navigation and communication tool. It has rapidly become an almost seamless extension of almost all of our senses. It is not only a reference tool but is quickly evolving to be an ''information concierge'' that can respond to typed or spoken queries or simply volunteer advice.
Further advances in both A.I. and I.A. will increasingly confront the engineers and computer scientists with clear choices about how technology is used. ''There needs to be an explicit social contract between the engineers and society to create not just jobs but better jobs,'' said Jaron Lanier, a computer scientist and author of ''You are not a Gadget: A Manifesto.''
The consequences of human design decisions can be clearly seen in the competing online news systems developed here in Silicon Valley.
Each day Katherine Ho sits at a computer and observes which news articles millions of Yahoo users are reading.
Her computer monitor displays the results of a cluster of software programs giving her almost instant updates on precisely how popular each of the news articles on the company's home page is, based on her readers' tastes and interests.
Ms. Ho is a 21st-century version of a traditional newspaper wire editor. Instead of gut and instinct, her decisions on which articles to put on the Yahoo home page are based on the cues generated by the software algorithms.
Throughout the day she constantly reorders the news articles that are displayed for dozens of demographic subgroups that make up the Yahoo readership. An article that isn't drawing much interest may last only minutes before she ''spikes'' it electronically. Popular articles stay online for days and sometimes draw tens of millions of readers.
Just five miles north at Yahoo's rival Google, however, the news is produced in an entirely different manner. Spotlight, a popular feature on Google's news site, is run entirely by a software algorithm which performs essentially the same duties as Ms. Ho does.
Google's software prowls the Web looking for articles deemed interesting, employing a process that is similar to the company's PageRank search engine ranking system to make decisions on which articles to present to readers.
In one case, software-based technologies are being used to extend the skills of a human worker, in another case technology replaces her entirely.
Similar design decisions about how machines are used and whether they will enhance or replace human qualities are now being played out in a multitude of ways, and the real value of Watson may ultimately be in forcing society to consider where the line between human and machine should be drawn.
Indeed, for the computer scientist John Seely Brown, machines that are facile at answering questions only serve to obscure what remains fundamentally human.
''The essence of being human involves asking questions, not answering them,'' he said.
Smarter Than You Think: Articles in this series are examining recent advances in artificial intelligence and robotics and their potential impact on society.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STANFORD: Douglas Engelbart, above, is a proponent of intelligence augmentation, while John McCarthy, left, started an artificial intelligence lab. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SRI INTERNATIONAL) (D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); JOB CREATION (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



409 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: In Iraq, Protesters Seek Not New Leaders, but Jobs

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Duraid Adnan contributed reporting from Baghdad, and an employee of The New York Times from Mosul, Iraq.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Iraq would seem to have virtually every ingredient for upheaval: crippling poverty, few good jobs, creaky public services, anger at an entrenched political elite and thousands of young people who meet online to vent their grievances and organize protests.
But the revolution has not come to Iraq. Not yet, at least. 
Sporadic demonstrations have rippled through the country over the last few weeks, as oil workers and nightclub owners, communications workers and communists try to yoke the energy and outrage that toppled President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and galvanized much of the Middle East.
On Saturday, a 31-year-old father in northern Iraq, despondent after failing to find steady work, doused himself with heating oil and set himself ablaze, his family said. His actions carried an echo of the self-immolation that incited an upheaval in Tunisia and then rippled across North Africa.
So far, the demonstrations in Iraq have attracted modest interest and had little visible impact.
''We are still in evolution,'' said Fouad Qasim, 25, who said he had not worked since losing his job with an American military contractor three years ago. ''Maybe tomorrow, maybe next week.''
Mr. Qasim was among about 200 people who joined a Valentine's Day protest on Monday in Baghdad's Tahrir Square, a small plaza on the edge of a traffic circle. Waving red balloons and silk roses, they chanted, ''We love Iraq!'' and ''We need a change!'' as Iraqi soldiers and police officers looked on.
Organizers are trying to attract followers by setting up Facebook groups with names like Blue Revolution, Streets of Baghdad for Change and Baghdad Will Not Be Kandahar. They have called for protests later this week and a larger demonstration at the end of the month.
Although the Iraqi protesters said they took some inspiration from the huge uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia, they also said they were not interested in toppling Iraq's leadership. Iraq, after all, is run by democratically elected lawmakers who forged a coalition government in November after eight months of political paralysis.
Protesters said they could live with the current government, but simply wanted better jobs, reliable electricity, clean streets and security.
''We don't want to change the regime,'' said Hassan Ghazi, 35. ''We just want to change the services.''
But given the depths of Iraq's troubles, toppling a government might be an easier task.
About one in five Iraqis is unemployed, though the overall rate of underemployment is thought to be much higher, and much of the joblessness is concentrated among Iraq's youth. Infrastructure is crumbling. People get by on a few hours of electricity every day and are bracing for another sweltering summer with insufficient power.
Despite an overall decline in violence, militants have continued to carry out bombings, assassinations and other attacks that left more than 100 civilians dead last month, according to the Interior Ministry. In a public opinion poll conducted in October by the International Republican Institute, more than half the Iraqis surveyed said they thought the country was heading in the wrong direction, with security cited as the largest concern.
Demonstrators and protest organizers say they want to build a movement from that anger.
''Each one has a different demand,'' Mohammed Ghazni, 23, said as he surveyed the crowd that filled half of the modest plaza in Baghdad on Monday.
There were liquor store owners upset that their shops had been shut down, wives pleading for their husbands to be released from jail, women demanding an equal voice in society and students calling for job opportunities.
''We need unity, a demand for the same thing,'' said Mr. Ghazni, a third-year law student who is pessimistic about finding a job after he graduates next year. ''We are trying to bring people together.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); COUPS (77%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); HEATING OIL (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (95%); EGYPT (93%); TUNISIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



410 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Monetary Issues Top Agenda at G-20 Meeting

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- Developed economies still recovering from the financial crisis are looking for ways to regain momentum as the global economy shifts in favor of China and other emerging markets.
That task will be high on the agenda when finance ministers of the Group of 20 leading economies meet here this week, three months after President Obama and other G-20 leaders sparred at a tension-filled gathering in Seoul over how to resolve the trade, currency and monetary imbalances that are widening a divide in the world economy.
Signs of trouble that had worried officials before the global financial crisis -- volatile capital flows, exchange rate pressures and rapidly growing foreign-exchange reserves -- have been gathering new momentum in emerging markets. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned in a recent speech that these issues could cause the next crisis if left unresolved. 
France, which took over the rotating chairmanship of the G-20 in January, is leading a drive to forge guidelines that would warn of differences and prompt dialogue.
Officials meeting in Paris on Friday and Saturday will debate which aspects of a country's economic performance should be used to help their peers identify potential problems, like current-account balances or trade balances, Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, said at a briefing Monday.
''China saves and exports,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''Europe consumes. The U.S. borrows and consumes.'' She asked, ''Is this a balanced model? Probably not.''
While decisions about which measurements to use may be technical, they are also politically tricky. China, in particular, has resisted suggestions by the advanced economies of the G-20 to include measures for exchange rates; Beijing has been criticized by other countries, notably the United States, for deliberately keeping its currency, the renminbi, weak to gain a trade advantage.
Exchange rates have become a particular sore point recently now that trade deficits and surpluses have started to rise in many countries, after falling during the financial crisis. On Monday, China reported a smaller-than-expected trade surplus for January as an increase in imports exceeded growth in exports for a fourth consecutive month.
But economists expect the surplus will climb after the Lunar New Year holidays, raising pressure on Beijing to speed up the appreciation of its currency.
Huge trade surpluses occur when a country exports more than it buys from abroad. That dynamic drew complaints from a number of countries at the Seoul meeting in November that others were artificially lifting trade by cheapening their currencies. The heated discussion, coming just after the Federal Reserve's decision to pump $600 billion into the American economy, led Washington into a war of words with Beijing over whether each country was engaging in its own form of currency manipulation to stoke growth.
''This is not about pointing fingers,'' Christian Noyer, the governor of France's central bank, said of the efforts under way to measure imbalances. ''It's about identifying structural weaknesses.''
He called on countries to cooperate or risk seeing ''brutal reversals.'' Countries with high trade surpluses, for example, ''may eventually hit a point where consumers won't be able to keep buying at the same pace,'' he said. ''And those cutting into savings could eventually face higher interest rates.''
In a bid to defuse the currency issue, Ms. Lagarde said, the G-20 will also discuss making a transition toward a global monetary system that is ''founded on several international currencies.''
Some officials of the G-20 and I.M.F., as well as in China, have been pushing for an alternate reserve currency based on a basket of virtual currencies overseen by the I.M.F. The renminbi could be included, Ms. Lagarde said.
''What we don't want to do is to come back to fixed exchange rates or call into question the role of the U.S. dollar,'' Ms. Lagarde said. The United States has responded coolly to the proposal in the past, but Ms. Lagarde said, ''I'm sure the U.S. is interested in elements of the reform with a view to having a better balance between the dollar and other currencies.''
G-20 officials will also discuss ways to correct other imbalances, including the sharp surge in food prices, and a surge in prices for a wide range of commodities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (72%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



411 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: In Former C.E.O.'s Words, the Last Days of Lehman Brothers

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
The few public statements by Richard S. Fuld Jr. about the demise of Lehman Brothers have often been in front of the glare of a Congressional panel. In 2008, Mr. Fuld, the investment bank's chief executive, known for his temper, appeared defensive and angry during televised testimony in which he faced a barrage of pointed and politically charged questions. As one congressman noted at the time, Mr. Fuld was the designated villain.
But audio recordings released last week by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission show a different side to the embattled chief. In a two-hour telephone interview in 2010, nearly two years after Lehman's demise, Mr. Fuld was more thoughtful and calm, occasionally pausing to ask for time to answer questions.
The call - one of many interviews the commission conducted in its quest to find the causes of the financial crisis - offers the most complete account of Lehman's excruciating final days from the former chief executive's perspective. During the interview, Mr. Fuld talked at length about the failed efforts to save the investment bank and his final discussion with the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., on Sept. 16, the day after Lehman filed for bankruptcy. 
''I see what you are doing for'' the American International Group, Mr. Fuld told Mr. Paulson on Sept. 16, according to his testimony. ''If you would give us a bridge, let's put Lehman back together. We can wind down these positions, and we can make a lot of this ugliness go away.''
Mr. Paulson seemed skeptical: ''Dick, I know you have done everything humanly possible. I will say one thing for you, you never give up. But I don't think that is possible at all. I will go back and talk to my people, but I don't think that is possible at all.''
''Did he ever get back to you?'' an examiner asked Mr. Fuld. The executive paused and then laughed: ''No. No, he did not. That is the last conversation I ever had with him.''
Many Wall Street executives and pundits have called Mr. Fuld delusional, saying he waited too long to try to sell Lehman, despite strong evidence it was necessary. JPMorgan Chase executives even joked in an e-mail exchange in September 2008, released by the commission, that Lehman's top brass was on ''drugs'' in thinking their various plans would save the firm.
Mr. Fuld, who remains a fixture on Wall Street and is often seen dining with friends and former colleagues, is struggling to move forward, according to people who have recently spoken to him. He often asks what he could have done differently, expressing remorse for ''letting everyone down,'' said these people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they did not want to speak publicly on the matter.
Mr. Fuld did not respond to an e-mail request for comment.
By early September 2008, Lehman's situation was deteriorating quickly. The stock was falling, clients were clamoring to get money out, and the bank was forced to turn over billions of dollars in additional collateral to its prime broker, depleting its cash on hand.
But in his testimony to the commission, Mr. Fuld said that even in Lehman's final days he believed that the 158-year-old Wall Street firm, which started as an Alabama cotton brokerage firm, would survive.
''I didn't go into that weekend with anything that resembled failure on my brain,'' Mr. Fuld said. ''I must tell you that.''
There were even fleeting moments in the last weekend that made him believe Lehman would be all right. On Saturday, Sept. 13, for instance, the Federal Reserve allowed the big banks to pledge new types of collateral in return for overnight capital. The move, which came as part of the expansion of the Primary Dealer Credit Facility window, would have eased Lehman's money issues.
''That euphoria lasted about half an hour, 45 minutes,'' Mr. Fuld said.
The chief executive quickly learned this exemption was being extended to everyone but Lehman. Stunned, Mr. Fuld said he tried unsuccessfully to call the New York Federal Reserve chairman, Timothy F. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary.
''From that weekend to this day I have not had a conversation with Chairman Geithner,'' Mr. Fuld told examiners.
After Mr. Fuld got the news, two bank executives, Bart McDade and Alex Kirk, headed to the New York Federal Reserve on Saturday to come up with a Plan B for Lehman. Mr. Kirk, in his testimony to commission examiners, said that he initially sat down at a round table with three Wall Street chiefs - Vikram S. Pandit of Citigroup, John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley and John A. Thain of Merrill Lynch - to hash out a proposal that would allow for an orderly unwinding of Lehman's assets.
As Mr. McDade and Mr. Kirk left the table to work out the details of such a plan, Mr. Kirk said Steve Shafran, a senior adviser to Mr. Paulson, stopped them. Mr. Shafran asked them to focus their ''efforts on trying to move forward with Barclays as a potential acquirer of the firm,'' Mr. Kirk said in his testimony.
But hopes of a life-saving deal with Barclays were soon dashed. On Sunday, Mr. Kirk, Mr. Fuld and others learned that the Financial Services Authority, a British regulator, would not waive a requirement that Barclays' shareholders approve an acquisition of Lehman. The regulator's stance effectively killed any potential deal, since Barclays would be unable to get the votes so quickly.
Commission examiners pressed Mr. Kirk on this issue, asking why no one had anticipated that this requirement would prove problematic. One examiner asked Mr. Kirk whether ''this was nuts'' that no one had foreseen this issue.
''I can certainly say that was my reaction for sure,'' said Mr. Kirk, who wondered too why this rule wasn't anticipated. However, he reminded examiners that the negotiations with Barclays had begun just days before and things were moving quickly.
Mr. Fuld, working out of Lehman's Midtown Manhattan headquarters, learned midday Sunday that the deal with Barclays was dead. He quickly reached out to Mr. Paulson, according to his testimony.
''This is a big issue,'' Mr. Paulson said of the floundering talks with Barclays.
''Who can you get to weigh in?'' Mr. Fuld asked him.
''Let me work on it,'' Mr. Paulson said.
''Great,'' Mr. Fuld said.
''I have a couple of things in mind,'' Mr. Paulson responded.
''Great, call me,'' Mr. Fuld said.
The next day Lehman filed for bankruptcy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Fuld, the former Lehman Brothers chief executive, after testifying before the House Financial Services Committee last April about the collapse of the investment bank in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (93%); HENRY PAULSON (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



412 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says G.O.P. Cuts Would Hurt U.S. Interests

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton warned Monday that Republican-proposed cuts in foreign aid to be considered by the House this week would harm the nation's security interests and standing across the globe.
In a letter to the House Appropriations Committee and in a visit to Capitol Hill for a private meeting with the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Mrs. Clinton sounded the alarm about reductions that she said amounted to a 16 percent decrease for the State Department from current spending and a 41 percent cut in money available for humanitarian programs. 
''Cuts of this magnitude will be devastating to our national security, will render us unable to respond to unanticipated disasters and will damage our leadership around the world,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a letter to Representative Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky and chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
Heading into three days of debate over their proposed cuts, Republicans acknowledged that some of them would be unpopular. But they said that they were prepared to defend them as necessary because of the mounting national debt and that they would pursue even deeper cuts on the House floor.
''We will begin for the first time in a long time to actually reduce spending instead of just to talk about how much it's going to grow,'' said Representative John Campbell, Republican of California. ''We have to act and we have to reduce spending, and there is plenty of spending to reduce.''
The cuts would come from federal agencies this fiscal year and are separate from the new budget requests that the Obama administration submitted Monday for the 2012 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
The House Republican plan will meet strong opposition in the Senate, which Democrats control, and from the White House. But with Democrats calling for spending cuts as well, some programs would lose funding if the two parties were able to reach a compromise.
Under their plan, the Republicans would reduce spending in virtually every federal agency, taking particular aim at environmental regulations, energy programs, labor initiatives, education aid, health care and transportation programs.
While the cuts would total $100 billion from the president's budget for this fiscal year, they actually amount to about $61 billion in real dollars since President Obama's plan was never enacted and many of his proposed increases did not take effect.
Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and the majority leader, did not try to play down the scope of the Republican proposal.
''It is big, and it is real, and it can impact people's lives,'' Mr. Cantor said Monday.
However, he said attempts to characterize the cuts as catastrophic were overblown, declaring that House Republicans were just trying to roll back spending to 2008 levels -- before the enactment of the federal stimulus law and other economic recovery plans.
''The sun rose and set in 2008,'' Mr. Cantor said.
Foreign aid programs are a traditional target when Congress looks for cuts, and Republicans noted that State Department operations received a very significant increase in 2010. But Mrs. Clinton called the cuts particularly ill timed, saying that developments in Egypt and elsewhere demonstrated the need for a global diplomatic presence.
''To be successful at these vital tasks, we need the resources to do the job, otherwise we will pay a higher price later in crises that are allowed to simmer and boil over into conflicts,'' she said after her meeting with Mr. Boehner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan, right, and Senator Jeff Sessions gave a Republican take on the president's new budget Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN CAMPBELL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); HAROLD ROGERS (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



413 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Budget Increase for Commodities Regulator

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:28 p.m. Updated
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission would receive a long-awaited influx of cash under President Obama's 2012 federal budget proposal, although much of the money would come from the financial and commodities industries rather than taxpayers.
The budget plan, unveiled Monday, would allow the commission to collect fees from companies that it oversees, generating $117 million for the agency. 
The plan would give the commission an overall budget of $308 million for 2012, up from $168 million in 2010. The industry fee proposal and the agency's higher overall budget are subject to approval by Congress, which is fiercely divided on spending increases.
The bigger budget would come at a critical time for the agency and its chairman, Gary Gensler. The commission is drafting dozens of new rules to police the $600 trillion derivatives industry, which played a leading role in the financial crisis. The Dodd-Frank Act, the financial overhaul law enacted last year, requires Mr. Gensler's agency to complete the regulations by July.
''The challenge before the agency is significant, but manageable, provided we are sufficiently resourced,'' Mr. Gensler said in the budget plan submitted to Congress.
His efforts are a rapid change for the once-sleepy agency, where financing was gutted in the Bush administration.
Mr. Gensler called his budget request ''far less than what is required to properly fulfill our significantly expanded role.'' He now wants to add more than 300 people to an agency of 680.
Mr. Gensler has long warned of dire consequences for markets and consumers if his agency does not receive more money.
''Even though our great nation has a very large deficit, this is the best investment for taxpayer money,'' he said in a recent interview. He is expected to make a similar case when he testifies Tuesday before the House Financial Services Committee.
But Mr. Gensler's pleas may not be received warmly on Capitol Hill, jeopardizing the commission's proposed budget increase. Some Republicans, concerned that the commission's new rules might damp the financial industry's profits, have threatened to withhold additional money from the agency.
Republicans also have taken aim at the Securities and Exchange Commission's budget. The S.E.C., like other financial regulators, uses industry fees to offset its budget. The Obama administration on Monday requested a $300 million increase for the S.E.C., much to the delight of Mary L. Schapiro, the agency's chairwoman. The increase would bring the S.E.C.'s budget to $1.4 billion for 2012.
''These funds will provide the S.E.C. with the resources needed to carry out both our longstanding core mission as well as our new responsibilities for derivatives, hedge fund advisers and credit rating agencies,'' Ms. Schapiro said in a statement.
Reaction to the Obama administration's plan for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission budget has been mixed within the agency.
Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner, expressed support for the budget plan. ''President Obama's request presents an admirable equilibrium,'' Mr. Chilton said in a statement. ''It proposes both fiscal restraint and needed resources for market oversight and enforcement.''
Scott D. O'Malia, a Republican commissioner, issued a statement that called the plan a ''disingenuous effort that only puts us further behind the requested funding level and will continue to add to the federal deficit.''
C.F.T.C.'s 2012 Budget Proposal
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FUTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



414 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Few Significant Changes In Energy-Area Spending

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's budget, released Monday, essentially treads water on energy and the environment, trying to maintain momentum for alternative energy research even as it cuts deeply into some environmental protection programs.
The president once again asks Congress to do away with billions in tax breaks for fossil fuel interests, over the outcries of the oil and gas industry.
The request deals with policies that involve some of the sharpest disagreements between the administration and Congress, which will debate it line by line. 
Spending at the Department of Interior would remain at roughly the same level as past years, but with a major increase, to $358 million, for environmental and safety enforcement for offshore oil and gas drilling, to be offset largely with royalties and fees from oil companies.
The budget request represents an increase of $119 million, or 50 percent, from 2010 and is intended to address weaknesses revealed after last year's BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The additional money would be used to hire new oil and gas inspectors, to more vigorously oversee drilling activities and to process drilling permit applications more efficiently.
The Energy Department budget includes more than $8 billion for research and development of alternative energy sources and provides hefty loan guarantees for the construction of nuclear power plants. The plan also includes $453 million for fossil fuel programs, with a heavy emphasis on developing ways to capture and store carbon dioxide emissions from power plants and refineries.
The plan provides money to establish three Department of Energy innovation centers in addition to the three already opened. It also devotes $550 million to cutting-edge energy programs supported by the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, a new agency at the department.
Cuts at the department include major reductions in the programs for fossil fuels and fuel cells, as well as cutting spending on hydrogen power technology nearly in half. The agency would also eliminate two research programs at national laboratories, saving more than $45 million in 2012.
The department's nuclear weapons program would get an increase of nearly $2 billion, to $11.8 billion, to replace aging facilities, extend the life of existing weapons and assure the safe storage of decommissioned warheads and materials.
The agency's proposed budget would also eliminate $3.6 billion in tax breaks and other subsidies for oil, natural gas and coal to help finance the president's other priorities. Mr. Obama has asked to eliminate these subsidies in his previous two budgets; Congress has refused to go along.
The Environmental Protection Agency, under heavy fire from Republicans in Congress for its plans to regulate greenhouse gases and other air pollutants, would suffer a $1.3 billion reduction in overall spending from 2010 levels, to $9 billion. Among the programs hardest hit would be the Great Lakes restoration initiative, grants for clean diesel engine development and money sent directly to states for drinking water and environmental cleanup projects.
The budget document repeats the president's pledge to try to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases by 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, but does not provide a detailed accounting of how to achieve it.
The environmental agency budget provides continued financing for the agency's vehicle emissions and fuel economy programs, both in the near term and for the years 2017 and beyond.
Online Correction: February 14, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version misstated the amount of a proposed increase in the Department of the Interior's spinding on environmental enforcement for offshore oil and gas drilling; it is $358 million, not $500 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); BUDGETS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); ROYALTIES (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (65%); AIR POLLUTANTS (64%); AIR POLLUTION (64%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (64%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011



415 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With Edward L. Glaeser

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The author of "Triumph of the City" talks about how to fix Detroit, how to help middle-class New Yorkers and how to overcome the Senate's anti-city bias.

 BODY:
 Edward L. Glaeser is a professor of economics at Harvard and a weekly contributor to this blog. I mention his new book, "Triumph of the City," in my column this week about Egypt. The current issue of The Atlantic includes a version of his chapter on skyscrapers, and The Economist and The New York Times have reviewed the book. The Times Magazine profiled Mr. Glaeser in 2006. Our conversation follows.
Mr. Glaeser: Education levels can change far more quickly at the city level than at the nation level because of migration. A city can attract skilled, entrepreneurial people in much less time than it can produce them and, unfortunately, a city can also lose important parts of its human capital base with astonishing rapidity. 
I believe that the best local economic development strategy, at whatever time frame, is to work on attracting smart, entrepreneurial people and then, more or less, get out of their way. But attracting smart people is never easy, especially for a troubled city like Detroit. Here are a few strategies.
 In the 19th-century, cities thrived because they had access to productive natural resources like a coal mine or a river. But today, production is pretty perfectly mobile, and cities thrive by attracting workers with quality of life and excitement. This leads to a focus both on bread-and-butter urban issues -- like safe streets and short commutes -- and on eliminating any barriers to innovation in the entertainment sector, like overregulation of restaurants, bars and my personal pet cause: the food truck. 
 Regulations are a direct deterrent to new business, and as cities age, they acquire layer after layer of regulation like the grime that can rest on older structures. Like those structures, local restrictions, on everything from construction to taxicabs, need a good cleaning every few years, and I would urge every older city to set up a task force charged with making sure that their town is about the easiest place in the world to open a new start-up. Better rules don't just empower Detroit's existing entrepreneurs; they also attract other entrepreneurial people. Detroit's physical footprints -- its buildings and roads -- were designed for a different age. The city has plenty of inexpensive real estate, but much of it is poorly structured for the 21st century. Declining cities shouldn't be building new structures with public funds, but they should make sure that private developers who want to remake urban spaces have a relatively easy time of it. They should also work to ensure that unoccupied structures are turned into more attractive and usable urban space. Youngstown was an early mover in the shrink-to-greatness trend. 
 Almost every city in the U.S. has some form of long-run fiscal problem associated with public-sector pensions and health care that looms like a guillotine over urban revival. The best way toward local fiscal sanity is to follow the private sector and replace defined benefit retirement plans with defined contribution plans, which will increase transparency and make it far less attractive to increase compensation with underfunded pensions. 
And finally, don't forget that better schools can reward a city more quickly than they can graduate students, by attracting skilled parents. They are America's most important investment in the 21st century, and the linchpin of urban success. 
Mr. Glaeser: New York is a great place to be a billionaire and a good place to be a striving, but poor, immigrant. But it's a pretty tough place to be middle class, and that's why New York is one of the most unequal places in the country. Two of the biggest reasons that middle-income parents flee the city are high housing prices and the problems in public schooling. I'm going to dodge the question of improving urban schools in this response and focus on reducing the high cost of housing. 
There are lots of things about housing prices that we don't understand all that well - like the great boom-bust cycle of the past decade -- but supply and demand do pretty well at explaining longer-term price patterns. Places like New York City are expensive because they have plenty of demand and relatively limited new supply. 
Demand for housing in New York is high because of the city's economic and social successes, like reduced crime rates. As long as plenty of people want to work and play in New York, demand will remain strong, and that's a good thing. 
Yet demand can be satisfied if there is enough supply. New York built over 100,000 units a year during the early 1920s, and prices stayed reasonably affordable. Chicago's cranes are pretty active on Lake Michigan, and that city remains far friendlier to middle-income residents. 
New York has limited supply, in part, because of the lack of land. Building up is just never as cheap as building out. Still, New York City could do a better job of being a more affordable, inclusive place. If New York rethought its regulatory barriers to construction, new construction could make the city more inclusive.
The great urbanist Jane Jacobs was correct about so much in cities, but she got housing prices wrong. She noted that old housing was cheaper than new housing, and so she thought that restricting new development could keep prices down. That's not how supply and demand works. Abundant supply is the only way to reduce prices in really high-demand areas. Manhattan will get more affordable only if it permits a lot of really high structures. 
What are the big barriers to building? New York City has an extremely tough zoning code that micromanages any new construction in the city. Preservation districts dot the city. The beautiful reminders of our past need to be preserved, not undistinguished postwar glazed brick buildings. 
Where would I put the new skyscrapers? I would focus on easing restrictions where demand is highest. Downtown Manhattan is the most valuable area, where less regulation is likely to generate the largest supply response. The Gehry tower rising on Spruce Street seems like a great example of really vibrant new architecture in the heart of the city. 
Rent control creates a particularly thorny problem. Artificial price ceilings deter building, and that's bad for supply and widespread affordability. Yet I'm not crazy about making housing all that much more expensive for existing renters who have less income. My own preferred rent-control exit strategy is to create a better buyout process, where landlords can get existing units out of the stabilization system with cash transfers to current residents. And I think that new renters should be outside the system. New York needs more rental housing, and that means less regulation and free market rents. 
Mr. Glaeser: There are three big anti-urban policy biases: pro-homeownership policies that push people from urban apartments into suburban homes, the subsidization of transportation infrastructure in low-density areas and our system of local schooling that pushes so many parents away from big-city school districts. The first two problems could easily be solved if the politics were right. The third problem is the great challenge of our era. 
The easy, technical answer for homeownership is to start reducing the home mortgage interest deduction by lowering the upper limit on deductible mortgages. Raising the fees required by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae for insuring mortgages also makes sense. Both ideas were proposed this week by the Obama administration, but the politics is tricky. As long as a majority of Americans are homeowners, there is going to be plenty of support for pro-homeownership policies. 
My own quixotic hope is that a progressive-libertarian alliance comes together to support these changes. Certainly, progressives should dislike both the regressive nature of the home mortgage interest deduction and its anti-urban bias. But libertarians should also oppose federal attempts to socially engineer America. People should be free to choose whatever housing works for them without the federal government trying to shoehorn a particular policy, and I'm hoping that libertarians will support that. 
The easy, technical answer on transportation is that investments should be made following rigorous cost-benefit analysis and paid for as much as possible by user fees. As you say, politics pushes against that, and in this case, I have no hope for a federal solution. I can't even muster the unjustifiable optimism that that I have about homeownership. 
I'm led to a state-level approach to infrastructure, especially local infrastructure. After all, the Erie Canal - which may well be the country's most successful infrastructure investment ever - was done at the state level. For bigger problems, states will clearly need to coordinate, but I just don't see why we've come to see the federal government as the solution for local transportation problems. 
In the case of schooling, the politics isn't so hard, but we don't really know how to fix everything. We've seen brave people fight for urban schools for years with only moderate success, and there is no obvious easy solution. On one level, the establishment of a public monopoly for schools eliminates the urban advantages of competition and innovation. For that reason, I'm hopeful about charter schools, especially in urban areas. Fixing America's schools is the country's most important job, but we don't yet know how to get it done. Both our cities and our nation depend on making wise investments in human capital. 
Mr. Glaeser: It's Chicago -- superstretched. 

        
How Seattle Transformed Itself 
        
E-Ties That Bind
        
The Health of the Cities
        
Reservations About Landmark Preservation
        
Taller Buildings, Cheaper Homes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%) Book Chat; cities; Edward L. Glaeser; Glaeser, Edward L; Urban Areas; Economix

PERSON: Glaeser, Edward L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



416 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Russia Embraces Arctic Drilling

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Andrew E. Kramer reported from Moscow and Clifford Krauss from Houston.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The Arctic Ocean is a forbidding place for oil drillers. But that is not stopping Russia from jumping in -- or Western oil companies from eagerly following.
Russia, where onshore oil reserves are slowly dwindling, last month signed an Arctic exploration deal with the British petroleum giant BP, whose offshore drilling prospects in the United States were dimmed by the Gulf of Mexico disaster last year. Other Western oil companies, recognizing Moscow's openness to new ocean drilling, are now having similar discussions with Russia.
New oil from Russia could prove vital to world supplies in coming decades, now that it has surpassed Saudi Arabia as the world's biggest oil producer, and as long as global demand for oil continues to rise.
But as the offshore Russian efforts proceed, the oil companies will be venturing where other big countries ringing the Arctic Ocean -- most notably the United States and Canada -- have been wary of letting oil field development proceed, for both safety and environmental reasons. 
After the BP accident in the gulf last year highlighted the consequences of a catastrophic ocean spill, American and Canadian regulators focused on the special challenges in the Arctic.
The ice pack and icebergs pose various threats to drilling rigs and crews. And if oil were spilled in the winter, cleanup would take place in the total darkness that engulfs the region during those months.
Earlier this month, Royal Dutch Shell postponed plans for drilling off Alaska's Arctic coast, as the company continued to face hurdles from wary Washington regulators.
The Russians, who control far more prospective drilling area in the Arctic Ocean than the United States and Canada combined, take a far different view.
As its Siberian oil fields mature, daily output in Russia, without new development, could be reduced by nearly a million barrels by the year 2035, according to the International Energy Agency. With its economy dependent on oil and gas, which make up about 60 percent of all exports, Russia sees little choice but to go offshore -- using foreign partners to provide expertise and share the billions of dollars in development costs.
And if anything, the gulf disaster encouraged Russia to push ahead with BP as its first partner. In the view of Russia's prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, BP is the safest company to hire for offshore work today, having learned its lesson in the gulf.
''One beaten man is worth two unbeaten men,'' Mr. Putin said, citing a Russian proverb, after BP signed its Arctic deal with Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company. The joint venture calls for the companies to explore three sections in the Kara Sea, an icebound coastal backwater north of central Russia.
The BP agreement touched off little public reaction in Russia, in part because the environmental movement is weak but also because opposition politicians have no way to block or hinder the process.
The Arctic holds one-fifth of the world's undiscovered, recoverable oil and natural gas, the United States Geological Survey estimates. According to a 2009 report by the Energy Department, 43 of the 61 significant Arctic oil and gas fields are in Russia. The Russian side of the Arctic is particularly rich in natural gas, while the North American side is richer in oil.
While the United States and Canada balk, other countries are clearing Arctic space for the industry. Norway, which last year settled a territorial dispute with Russia, is preparing to open new Arctic areas for drilling.
Last year Greenland, which became semi-autonomous from Denmark in 2009, allowed Cairn Energy to do some preliminary drilling. Cairn, a Scottish company, is planning four more wells this year, while Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Shell are also expected to drill in the area over the next few years.
But of the five countries with Arctic Ocean coastline, Russia has the most at stake in exploring and developing the region.
''Russia is one of the fundamental building blocks in world oil supply,'' said Daniel Yergin, the oil historian and chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''It has a critical role in the global energy balance. The Arctic will be one of the critical factors in determining how much oil Russia is producing in 15 years and exporting to the rest of the world.''
Following the template of the BP deal, Rosneft is negotiating joint venture agreements with other major oil companies shut out of North America and intent on exploring the Arctic continental shelf off Russia's northern coast. That includes Shell, its chief executive said last month. Rosneft's chief executive, Eduard Y. Khudainatov, said other foreign oil company representatives were lining up outside his office these days.
Artur N. Chilingarov, a polar explorer, has embodied Moscow's sweeping Arctic ambitions ever since he rode in a minisubmarine and placed a Russian flag on the bottom of the ocean under the North Pole, claiming it for Russia, in a 2007 expedition.
''The future is on the shelf,'' Mr. Chilingarov, a member of Russia's Parliament, the Duma, said in an interview. ''We already pumped the land dry.''
Russia has been a dominant Arctic oil power since the Soviet Union began making important discoveries in the land-based Tazovskoye field on the shore of the Ob Bay in Siberia in 1962. The United States was not far behind with the discovery of the shallow-water Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska five years later.
What is new is the move offshore.
The waters of the Arctic are particularly perilous for drilling because of the extreme cold, long periods of darkness, dense fogs and hurricane-strength winds. Pervasive ice cover for eight to nine months out of the year can block relief ships in case of a blowout. And, as environmentalists note, whales, polar bears and other species depend on the region's fragile habitats.
Such concerns have blocked new drilling in Alaska's Arctic waters since 2003, despite a steep decline in oil production in the state and intensive lobbying by oil companies.
In Canada, Arctic offshore drilling is delayed as the National Energy Board is reviewing its regulations after the gulf spill.
But Russia is pressing ahead. The central decision opening the Russian Arctic easily passed Parliament in 2008, as an amendment to a law on subsoil resources. It allowed the ministry of natural resources to transfer offshore blocks to state-controlled oil companies in a no-bid process that does not involve detailed environmental reviews.
Until recently Russia regarded the Kara Sea, where BP and Rosneft intend to drill, as primarily an icy dump. For years, the Soviet navy released nuclear waste into the sea, including several spent submarine reactors that were dropped overboard at undisclosed locations.
Rosneft executives say their exploration drilling will not stir up radiation.
But in any case, Mr. Chilingarov, the advocate for Russian polar claims, said a little radiation was nothing to worry about. He said that his son was born on Novaya Zemlya, an Arctic testing site for nuclear weapons during the cold war, and is now ''a bit taller than me.''
''In small doses,'' Mr. Chilingarov said, ''radiation is good for growth.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Wednesday with an article about Russia's eagerness to drill for oil in the Arctic Ocean gave an incorrect unit of measurement for estimates of natural gas reserves in the region. The shaded areas in the chart are believed to hold more than 100 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, not cubic tons. The unit of measurement was correct in an online version of the chart, available at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An oil platform being towed to Murmansk, an Arctic seaport in Russia, which controls immense offshore drilling areas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREI PRONIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Artur N. Chilingarov, above in his office in the Russian Parliament, placed a Russian flag on the bottom of the ocean under the North Pole, right, claiming the area for Russia, in a 2007 polar expedition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ASSOCIATION OF RUSSIAN POLAR EXPLORERS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) MAP (Source: U.S. Geological Survey) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); OIL EXTRACTION (91%); OCEANS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (85%); OIL SPILLS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); POLITICS (64%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); BP PLC (73%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); BP (NYSE) (73%); BP (LSE) (73%); ROSN (RTS) (51%); ROSN (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) ARCTIC (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



417 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Legal Fees At Fannie Are Called Avoidable

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the government took over Fannie Mae, it could have voided the contracts that have since left taxpayers liable for more than $100 million in legal bills defending the mortgage company and its former executives, according to statements at a Congressional hearing on Tuesday.
The legal opinion, cited by Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas, runs counter to the assertions by officials of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, created to oversee Fannie. Overturning the contracts, the agency's officials said, would have been inappropriate and possibly unconstitutional. 
Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the federal housing agency, and Alfred M. Pollard, its general counsel, reiterated that view before the oversight and investigations subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee. Mr. DeMarco added that canceling the executives' employment contracts would make it difficult to attract skilled professionals to work at the company.
The amount advanced by the government to pay legal bills for Fannie Mae and its former executives accused of accounting improprieties was a well-kept secret for more than two years. But the bills add up quickly. In the main lawsuit, 35 to 40 lawyers representing Fannie defendants attend monthly conferences by the judge.
Mr. Neugebauer, chairman of the oversight subcommittee, ferreted out the total expense after requesting an accounting from the federal housing agency, charged with conserving Fannie Mae's assets on behalf of taxpayers.
The contracts for Fannie Mae and its former executives are typical of those across corporate America. Under these deals, executives are indemnified against having to pay ''reasonable'' legal bills arising from lawsuits associated with their work for the company. If the executives are found liable for wrongdoing, however, they are required to return the amounts advanced for their defense.
But in sometimes heated testimony at Tuesday's hearing, lawmakers questioned whether the legal fees charged to taxpayers by Fannie and its former executives were reasonable.
''For me, $160 million of legal fees certainly sounds unreasonable,'' said Michael E. Capuano, Democrat of Massachusetts and the ranking member of the subcommittee. ''Let's be serious; we're never going to get this money back, and that's the problem.''
Most of the fees are from a shareholder lawsuit brought against Fannie and three of its former officers by shareholders who lost money when the company's accounting scandal erupted in 2004, well before the government takeover in September 2008. After six years of fact-finding and the production of millions of documents, a trial is at least two years away.
Mike DeWine, attorney general of Ohio, is overseeing this litigation on behalf of two state pension funds that owned Fannie shares. Testifying before the subcommittee, he characterized the legal defense of the company and its executives as ''a feeding frenzy.'' At depositions in the case, he said, Fannie officials have brought 13 lawyers, many of whom said nothing during the interviews.
Franklin D. Raines, who was Fannie Mae's chief executive when the accounting irregularities took place, brought five lawyers to the depositions he has attended, Mr. DeWine said. Timothy Howard, Fannie's former chief financial officer, and Leanne Spencer, its former controller, each had two lawyers representing them at depositions.
Mr. DeWine described the monthly conferences convened by the judge as drawing 35 to 40 lawyers representing the Fannie defendants. ''It is time for someone to stand up and just say stop,'' he said.
According to Mr. Neugebauer, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which created the new federal overseer of Fannie and Freddie Mac, allowed for the indemnification contracts to be voided. But by keeping the arrangements intact, the regulator has created a perverse incentive for Fannie Mae's former executives and their lawyers to run up enormous legal bills, Mr. Neugebauer said.
''The history of Fannie Mae, under the management of Franklin Raines, Timothy Howard and Leanne Spencer, is a story of abusing their positions to use the assets of the enterprise to further their own interest and careers,'' Mr. Neugebauer said. ''Years after they were forced out of the company for their misdeeds, Franklin Raines and his management team have continued their abuse. This time however, it is against the U.S. taxpayers.''
Mr. DeMarco and Mr. Pollard replied that refusing to honor the indemnification contracts would have resulted in additional legal bills because the executives would have sued. But the costs for such a suit would be nominal, legal experts said, because the regulator would be represented by its own counsel, not legions of high-cost lawyers.
Given the size of the advances over the years, it is unclear whether the money might be recovered. Since he left the company in 2004, Mr. Raines has received advances of $38 million. Mr. Howard has received $18 million, while Ms. Spencer has had $31 million covered since she left the company in early 2005.
Before the company collapsed and taxpayers took over, Fannie Mae had been covering the costs.
The agreements struck between Fannie Mae and its former executives state that indemnification will be canceled when an employee breaches the duty of loyalty to the corporation or engages in intentional misconduct.
In 2006, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, then the company's regulator, published an in-depth report on the company's accounting practices, accusing Mr. Raines, Mr. Howard and Ms. Spencer of taking actions to manipulate profits and generate $115 million in improper bonuses. The regulator settled with the three former executives, who neither admitted nor denied the allegations. Together, they returned around $31 million to the government.
According to a timeline provided by the subcommittee, new indemnification agreements were struck for the top Fannie executives in May 2004, well after the company's regulator had begun an extensive investigation into the company's accounting practices. Timothy J. Mayopolous, general counsel for Fannie Mae, testified that the board had undertaken a review of the indemnification policies at that time.
''It seems a little fishy that we had to renew the contracts in 2004,'' Mr. Neugebauer said.
Since Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were taken over by the government, their losses stemming from bad loans have mounted, totaling about $150 billion in a recent reckoning. Last week the Treasury issued a report recommending that Fannie and its fellow mortgage company Freddie Mac be wound down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randy Neugebauer of Texas asked for an accounting of costs from Fannie's regulator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); DEPOSITIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); SCANDALS (74%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); PENSION FUNDS (64%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%)

PERSON: RANDY NEUGEBAUER (88%); MICHAEL E CAPUANO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



418 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, a Historic Retail Strip Is Revived

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In recent years Barracks Row, a shopping strip on Eighth Street southeast of the Capitol that had languished since the 1960s, has been transformed building by building and block by block into a popular destination for residents and Congressional employees seeking an ethnic meal or an offbeat gift.
The movement to revive Barracks Row, one of the oldest retail corridors in Washington, goes back more than a decade. But the neighborhood really took off once a group of distinctive restaurants began to arrive in 2004.
Now local business and community leaders would like to extend the shopping strip southward and provide a more inviting link to the nearby Nationals ballpark and the residential area that is rapidly growing around it. 
Part of Barracks Row is across from the barracks that house Marines, whose duties are purely ceremonial . The pedestrian-friendly stretch of small-scale buildings starts at D Street, a short walk from the venerable Capitol Hill fixture Eastern Market, and runs south to M Street. The northern part of the row has more than 30 restaurants as well as dozens of professional offices and independent stores that would be priced out of more established shopping districts. Its vacancy rate hovers around 5 percent, said Martin Smith, the executive of Barracks Row Main Street, the public-private group that has guided the makeover.
But like many cities around the country, Washington is stuck with the consequences of allowing a highway to slash through an urban neighborhood. In 1962, the Southeast Freeway bisected Barracks Row. ''That became the moat,'' said Michael Stevens, the executive director of the Capitol Riverfront Business Improvement District, which has helped to promote development around the new ballpark. ''It created a large physical barrier.''
An overpass at I Street cuts off the now-flourishing part of Barracks Row from a sort of no man's land on the southern end of Eighth Street and the surrounding area, from Seventh Street to 11th Street. The area lacks ''destination qualities or sense of place,'' according to a recent report commissioned by city planning officials.
In 2007 Madison Marquette, a Washington company that specializes in redeveloping old buildings, paid $25 million for the Navy Yard Car Barn, an imposing blue 1891 building south of the freeway at Eighth and M Streets, across from the Washington Navy Yard. Initially used to store trolley cars and later electric streetcars, the Blue Castle, as the 100,000-square-foot Romanesque structure is known, has been occupied more recently by a social service provider and charter schools.
Madison Marquette liked the location at the crossroads of Barracks Row and the riverfront area as well as the Car Barn's scale, said David Brainerd, a managing director. ''What we thought was most intriguing was that the building occupied the entire block,'' Mr. Brainerd said. ''You don't find that very often in Washington.'' Madison Marquette hopes eventually to redevelop the Car Barn as a retail anchor that would have the heft to lure customers and other businesses to cross under the freeway.
In the meantime, new lighting has been added to make the underpass less forbidding to pedestrians, and a series of murals has been commissioned. ''The objective will be to catch your eye so that you will want to walk down there,'' Mr. Smith said.
Working with other property owners south of the freeway, Madison Marquette is also seeking to allow more flexibility than is permitted under current zoning for the area, which limits building heights to 45 feet.
The construction of the freeway was not the only misfortune to befall Barracks Row, which traces its roots to the early 1800s, when the Navy Yard was built on the Anacostia River and the Marine Barracks were located nearby, at Eighth and I Streets. Serving these military installations, and later a gun factory located at the Naval Yard, were the markets and restaurants of Barracks Row, which became known for its oyster houses.
But when the factory closed in the 1960s, the shopping strip began to fade, and the migration to the suburbs also took their toll. ''We wouldn't venture there unless we were in a car, and one of us would wait in the car,'' said E. Linwood Tipton, a lobbyist who lives a few blocks from Barracks Row.
The impetus for change began in the 1990s when a local resident, Linda Parke Gallagher, began badgering public officials about the condition of the shopping strip, said Bill McLeod, a former executive director of Barracks Row Main Street. ''She couldn't figure out why this old commercial corridor was so downtrodden,'' he recalled. ''She would call the Department of Transportation every week and ask, 'When are we getting new trees and new sidewalks?' '' Ms. Gallagher died in 2008.
In 2002 the city planted American elm trees on Barracks Row and installed iron streetlights known as Washington globes. Then came programs to revitalize the dilapidated building facades and install brick and slate pavers. Outdoor cafes began sprouting and business owners were given glass panes to replace the plexiglass in their windows. ''It became a matter of keeping up with the Joneses,'' Mr. McLeod said.
The neighborhood group came under the wing of the National Main Streets Center, a program of the National Trust for Historic Preservation that has been involved in the revitalization of 200 urban corridors across the nation, said Douglas A. Loescher, the executive director. ''We think the hundreds of small incremental improvements and long-time management are the key to the success of those programs,'' Mr. Loescher said.
As a result of these efforts, restaurants with a following elsewhere in the Washington area, like Matchbox and Cava Mezze, now have a presence in Barracks Row. Since September 2008 Xavier Cervera, a former Miami Beach restaurateur, has opened three restaurants on Barracks Row and is about to open a fourth, Senart's Oyster and Chop House. It is located in a building that housed a pre-World War II oyster house of the same name.
Sprinkled among service retailers like hair and pet grooming salons are a few offbeat shops like Backstage Inc., which sells musical scores and vampire wigs, and a knitting-supply store called Stitch DC. A second bicycle shop, City Bikes, is opening soon, as is a bakery called Hello Cupcake, Mr. Smith said.
Randy Boehm, an agent at Washington D.C. Retail, a local brokerage, said rents averaged about $40 a square foot, easily half the rate of Georgetown.
In 2007 Barracks Row attracted unwanted attention when questions were raised in the news media and in Congress about $2.75 million in earmarks for the project that were added to the federal budget by Representative Jerry Lewis, Republican of California, who owns a home nearby. ''There was an effort to indicate that he had some kind of gain,'' said Mr. Tipton, the lobbyist, who is a friend of the congressman and who also is the president of Barracks Row Main Street. ''That's absolutely false and asinine.''
Mr. Smith of the Barracks Row Main Street program said the appropriation represented a small fraction of the public and private money being spent on Barracks Row and the adjacent Eastern Market Metro Plaza. Though development plans for the extension of Barracks Row were slowed by the economic downturn, Mr. Smith said he was encouraged that the National Community Church, which operates Ebenezers Coffee House near Union Station, is getting ready to build a church and performance space south of the freeway on Eighth Street and Virginia Avenue.
''It will definitely be a catalyst for development,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We have a number of investors who just didn't want to be first.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2011; February 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the name of Xavier Cervera's fourth restaurant on Barracks Row as Senart's Oyster and Chowder House.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the revitalization of Barracks Row, a shopping district in Washington, D.C., described incorrectly the responsibility of the Marines who are housed in nearby barracks. The unit's duties are purely ceremonial; the Marines do not protect federal buildings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Brainerd, left, and Jonathan Sharter of Madison Marquette in front of the Navy Yard Car Barn. The company hopes that a retail center in the Blue Castle, as it is known, will expand Barracks Row to the south. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); NAVIES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (70%); CITY LIFE (65%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



419 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Exemptions Are Sought From Derivatives Rules

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:56 p.m. Updated
Republican lawmakers implored financial regulators on Wednesday to exempt airlines, manufacturers and thousands of other nonfinancial companies from new rules governing derivatives trading, warning that jobs and corporate profits were at risk.
The response from regulators was mixed.
In testimony before the House Financial Services Committee, Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal Reserve Board governor, left open the possibility that some larger companies might have to post extra capital when trading derivatives. 
But Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, reassured the committee that his agency's rules would ''focus only on transactions between financial entities.'' Mr. Gensler said the rules should not apply to nonfinancial companies, or so-called end users, that buy derivatives to hedge costs.
The debate stems from the Dodd-Frank act, which mandated an overhaul of the unregulated $600 trillion derivatives markets, a leading cause of the financial crisis.
The Dodd-Frank act, the financial regulatory law that President Obama signed in July, requires big banks and other financial institutions to process most derivatives through regulated clearinghouses, which serve as a backstop in the event one party defaults. Financial companies are also required to post margin, or extra capital, in case the deal sours.
While the law exempted end users like United Airlines and Shell Energy from the clearing requirement, it failed to clarify whether the companies would have to come up with the capital.
Corporations have been running scared ever since. Companies big and small have flocked to Washington, complaining to lawmakers that the margin rule will tie up corporate money and damage their bottom line.
Requiring end users ''to post margin to its counterparties would have a serious impact on our ability to invest in and grow our businesses,'' Craig Reiners, the director of commodity risk management for the brewer MillerCoors, said in prepared testimony before the committee. ''The prudent use of derivatives by end-user companies, such as MillerCoors, does not generate risk or instability in the financial marketplace and played no role in the financial crisis.''
Mr. Gensler heeded Mr. Reiners's warning. ''We're aware and focused on the cost of a six-pack'' of beer, Mr. Gensler said at the hearing, adding that lawmakers need not write new legislation to clarify the end-user exemption. ''We'll get this margin thing right. We understand Congressional intent.''
Republicans offered rare praise for Mr. Gensler, who has been pushing aggressively to impose the Dodd-Frank rules. ''I want to applaud Chairman Gensler,'' said Representative Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama and the chairman of the financial services committee. ''Members on the majority think it's critically important that we don't impose margin or clearing requirements on end users.''
Mr. Tarullo said the Fed was weighing a plan that would impose margin requirements based on the risk that a company poses to the broader economy. That means many end users would face little or no margin requirements, though some larger companies intertwined in the financial system would have to produce additional capital. The Fed will tread lightly as it writes these rules, Mr. Tarullo said.
Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, offered even more cautious testimony, saying that her agency is ''progressing at a deliberate pace, taking the time necessary to thoughtfully consider the issues raised.''
Democratic members of the committee, meanwhile, called on the regulators to fully enforce the Dodd-Frank rules.
Representative Stephen Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts, warned: ''You think regulation is costly? How about the $7 trillion we just lost from not regulating the derivatives markets?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Schapiro, left, of the S.E.C.
Gary Gensler, of the C.F.T.C.
 and Daniel K. Tarullo, a Fed governor, right, at a hearing Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOLLY RILEY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BREWERIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



420 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Central Bank Raises Its Outlook for Japan's Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japan's central bank raised its assessment of the country's economy for the first time in nine months amid an upturn in exports and production. 
The Bank of Japan's nine-member policy board voted unanimously Tuesday to keep the overnight call-rate target at zero to 0.1 percent. The central bank has maintained the interest rate in that range since October.
Citing growth in exports and production, the central bank upgraded its assessment of Japan's economy, which slipped to the world's third-largest, behind the United States and China, in 2010.
''Japan's economy is gradually emerging from the current deceleration phase,'' the bank said in a statement. ''Japan's exports and production are showing signs of resuming an uptrend.''
Its previous assessment had said that the ''recovery seems to be pausing.''
Exports are crucial to Japan's economy. Major manufacturers like Toyota and Sony have relied on demand from the rest of the world to offset lackluster domestic conditions.
The pace of Japan's export growth started picking up in late last year, with exports in December rising 13 percent year-on-year following a 9 percent increase in the previous month.
In 2010 over all, Japan's exports jumped 24.4 percent -- the first year-on-year growth in three years -- to 67.4 trillion yen ($809 billion) on strong demand for Japanese cars and steel products.
Among regions, China was Japan's biggest export market, accounting for nearly 20 percent of all shipments last year. Around 15 percent of Japanese exports went to the United States.
Apart from exports, the central bank said Japanese business investment was recovering. But it noted Japan's private consumption and the employment situation have remained severe.
The bank vowed to continue supporting the economy through a three-pronged approach of ''powerful'' monetary easing, financial market stability and ''providing support to strengthen the foundations of economic growth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



421 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rose in January, but Less Than Expected

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Sales at retailers in the United States slowed in January as extreme weather in many regions of the country kept shoppers at home, but the underlying trend in spending continued to improve. 
Total retail sales rose 0.3 percent, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday, advancing for a seventh month. Sales rose 0.5 percent in December.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected an increase of 0.6 percent in January. Compared with January a year ago, sales were up 7.8 percent.
''Seventy percent of the country was covered by snow in January so, if anything, it's a miracle the consumer didn't just hibernate,'' said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo/Mitsubishi UFJ in New York.
Economists said they expected the trend to continue, spurring the economy. The United States economy grew at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, led by consumer spending.
Excluding autos, sales increased 0.3 percent last month, below economists' expectations for a 0.5 percent gain, after rising 0.3 percent in December.
Sales last month were held back by a 2.9 percent drop in receipts at building material and gardening outlets after a 1.8 percent increase in December. Sales at food services and drinking places fell 0.7 percent, while receipts at clothing and clothing accessories stores slipped 0.3 percent.
But so-called core retail sales, which exclude autos, gasoline and building materials, increased 0.5 percent after slipping 0.1 percent in December.
January sales at some major retail chains came in well ahead of expectations, showing that shoppers who braved snowstorms were buying, not just browsing.
Still, experts predict that people will largely remain frugal and focus on bargains this year.
Higher prices on food and cotton apparel are adding pressure to shoppers whose budgets were already being pinched at the gasoline pump.
In a second report, the Commerce Department said business inventories increased 0.8 percent, to $1.44 trillion, the highest since January 2009, after increasing 0.4 percent in November. Economists had expected a 0.7 percent gain.
Import prices also rose in January as energy costs increased, according to a Labor Department report. Prices rose 1.5 percent, or nearly double the consensus forecast of 0.8 percent in a Reuters poll of economists.
Petroleum prices rose 3.4 percent in January and have risen 18.5 percent in the last four months. Nonpetroleum costs rose 1.1 percent in January, the largest advance in that category since April 2008.
Export prices rose 1.2 percent in January, exceeding the consensus forecast of 0.7 percent. They were led by agricultural export prices, which rose 3.2 percent.
A separate report from the New York Federal Reserve showed a gauge of manufacturing in New York State climbed to 15.43 in February, the best since June and up from 11.92 in January.
But home builder sentiment was unchanged in February, stuck at a low level for the fourth month in a row as the housing market struggled to recover from its collapse, a survey released on Tuesday showed.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index held steady at 16 from last month, as expected.
A reading above 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as good than poor. The index has not been above 50 since April 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An H&M clothing store in Hollywood, Calif., unaffected by the nation's January snowstorms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (96%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WEATHER (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (79%); GASOLINE (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); INVENTORIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); EXPORT PRICES (68%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); IMPORT PRICES (63%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (56%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



422 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Sheriff Wants Big Jail in New Orleans, but, Surprise, City Balks

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- Even in the context of Louisiana, which has the highest incarceration rate in the United States, which in turn has the highest incarceration rate in the world, the numbers stand out. This city, by any measure, puts a lot of people in jail.
So when the sheriff proposed a large new jail complex, it came as no surprise. The surprise was that the city pushed back.
It has been said so often as to become hackneyed, but the destruction from Hurricane Katrina and the subsequent flooding has allowed New Orleans to reconsider nearly everything.
Not all the proposed changes have been universally welcomed, but by wide agreement, the targets of reform have been ripe. A struggling school system, an ineffective tax assessment structure and a profoundly troubled police force are either undergoing an overhaul or facing one. 
Then came the jail. Or, to be precise, then came Sheriff Marlin N. Gusman of Orleans Parish last April, with a proposal for badly needed new facilities to replace those damaged by flooding.
The proposal states that the sheriff's department's long-term goal is to have room for about 4,500 inmates, with extra capacity to account for fluctuations. This would make the jail substantially smaller than it was before the storm. It would still, however, be more than four times larger than the national average, based on the city's size.
In Louisiana, the sheriff generally gets what he wants. But nonprofit groups, civic activists and City Council members had already begun questioning the city's criminal justice practices, particularly the size of its jail.
The Orleans Parish Prison, as the system is called, grew to such a vast scale for a couple of reasons: a statewide practice of putting state prisoners in local jails and a local tendency to throw in jail just about everyone who appears before a judge.
The practice of paying local jails to hold state prisoners took off in Louisiana in the late 1980s and early 1990s, when the state faced a growing prison population but lacked the money to build new prisons. The state began paying sheriffs a per diem to hold its prisoners, an arrangement that was economical for the state and lucrative for the sheriff's departments.
But, said James LeBlanc, Louisiana's reform-minded secretary of public safety and corrections, ''it's gotten to the point over the last eight years that it's a little bit out of hand.''
Currently, more than half of Louisiana's state inmates are being held in parish jails, a proportion unheard of elsewhere.
Charles C. Foti Jr., sheriff of Orleans Parish for 30 years, was particularly adept at this arrangement. When he left office in 2004, he was overseeing 7,000 state and local prisoners and detainees -- nearly nine times as many as when he came into office -- bringing in tens of millions a year, justifying an ambitious jail-building program and giving the sheriff's office a considerable force of inmate labor.
But state prisoners are not the only people in jail here.
According to Jon Wool of the Vera Institute of Justice, which has been studying the city's criminal justice system for the past four years, virtually every person arrested in New Orleans is sent to jail and held on a money bond. As a result, he said, a significant portion of the jail population, perhaps 40 percent, is made up of people detained on nonviolent charges who cannot afford to post bond.
For this and other reasons, the Orleans Parish Prison became, in the words of James Austin, a consultant with the National Institute of Justice who prepared a report on the jail, ''spectacular in the annals of local correction.''
Even discounting state prisoners, the jail holds more people per 1,000 residents than any other urban jail in the country.
Efforts at change have already started taking root, including expedited sentencing and a shift from arrests to summonses for certain offenses. Sheriff Gusman says that these reforms are in their early stages, and that it would be unwise, possibly dangerous, to start reducing the jail's size at this point. New Orleans, he points out, is still a rough city.
''You can't sit back and say you're going to let chance be an option,'' the sheriff said in an interview.
''If you're wearing a size 12 and you try to put your foot into a 9, it just won't fit,'' he said. ''We might be cutting some toes off.''
Advocates of a smaller jail point out that with the new changes, the local jail population has already dropped by several hundred since last summer, to around 2,000. If the jail no longer holds so many state prisoners -- there are now about 950 -- and as ambitious new reforms like a pretrial services program get under way, the reformers say the jail population is certain to drop significantly more.
A big jail could jeopardize that, said Norris Henderson, a former inmate who is now a civic activist. If you build it, he said, they will fill it.
There are serious risks in taking on sheriffs in Louisiana, given their political heft. Mr. Gusman is a more complicated figure than the stereotypical Southern sheriff: a lawyer with an undergraduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania, he strongly criticized the jail's size when he was a city councilman.
In the fall, Mayor Mitch Landrieu created a working group to study the jail, a move, some members said, that provided political cover in that its decisions were collective. The group is composed of judges, City Council members, the district attorney, the police chief and others, and is headed by the mayor's chief administrative officer.
In November, the group voted 9 to 3, with the sheriff and the district attorney among those in the minority, to endorse construction of a 1,438-bed jail, and the demolition or decommissioning of other facilities, effectively capping the population. This month, at a meeting crowded with activists, the City Council unanimously passed an ordinance to do this.
Whether that cap will hold is debatable. The sheriff, still contending that the size is unrealistic, does not appear ready to accept only 1,438 beds. And even members of the working group acknowledge that this is not an impenetrable ceiling.
Another unknown variable is a continuing federal civil rights investigation into conditions at the jail. In September 2009, the United States Department of Justiceissued a letter detailing a litany of civil rights violations at the jail and threatening a lawsuit.
Little has been heard since, though at least nine inmates have died in custody since the letter was issued. A spokeswoman for the Justice Department said officials were in discussions with the sheriff and at some point would ''absolutely take some action.''
But for now, city officials, nonprofit groups and civic activists are digesting the fact that a debate that would have been unthinkable before the storm has gone, so far, relatively smoothly.
''The political climate has been this buddy-buddy thing for so long,'' Mr. Henderson said, a little surprised himself. ''This is the first time the cow has kicked over the milk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marlin N. Gusman, right, the Orleans Parish sheriff, with James Stark of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: How New Orleans Compares: Local jurisdictions with large jail populations, per 1,000 residents: (Source: The Pew Charitable Trusts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (79%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (72%); HURRICANES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JUDGES (50%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



423 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: No Dice, No Money, No Cheating. Are You Sure This Is Monopoly?

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
You can still collect $200 when you pass ''Go,'' but not in piles of play money.
In the new version of Monopoly, the game's classic pastel-colored bills and the designated Banker have been banished, along with other old-fashioned elements, in favor of a computer that runs the game.
Hasbro showed a preview of the new version, called Monopoly Live, at this week's Toy Fair in New York. It is the classic Monopoly board on the outside, with the familiar railroads like the B.& O. and the development of property. But in the center, instead of dice and Chance and Community Chest cards, an infrared tower with a speaker issues instructions, keeps track of money and makes sure players adhere to the rules. The all-knowing tower even watches over advancing the proper number of spaces.
Hasbro hopes the computerized Monopoly will appeal to a generation raised on video games amid a tough market for traditional board games, a category where sales declined 9 percent in 2010, according to the market-research firm NPD Group. ''How do we give them the video game and the board game with the social experience? That's where Monopoly Live came in,'' said Jane Ritson-Parsons, global brand leader for Monopoly. 
With free digital games everywhere, Hasbro is hoping to revive interest among young children and preteenagers in several of its games that cost money. (The new Monopoly, available in the fall, will be about $50). Battleship will undergo a similar digital upgrade this year, and other Hasbro games will be redesigned for 2012 and 2013, Ms. Ritson-Parsons said.
But for families used to arguing over Monopoly's rules, players who slip a $100 bill under the board for later use and friends who gleefully demand rent from one another, it may not be so easy to adapt to a computer's presence on the board.
''It seems that there's a computer that makes most of the decisions for you -- it changes a lot of the rules, it removes a lot of the skill,'' said Ken Koury, a competitive Monopoly player and coach who informally settles rule disputes for others. ''With this computer, I'm wondering what's left for the player to decide -- is it they just keep pushing buttons and wait for someone to win?''
Hasbro is aiming at luring 8- to 12-year-olds back to these board games. Its executives say this age group, accustomed to video games, wants a fast-paced game that requires using their hands. To move forward on the new Monopoly board, players cover their game piece with their hands, and the tower announces how many spaces the player can move. Players also hold their hands over decals to buy or sell properties, insert ''bank cards'' into slots to check their accounts, and send a plastic car moving around a track to win money or other advantages (only when the tower instructs them to, of course).
Hasbro executives also say that young players do not want to bother with reading instructions and toss rules aside.
''For games, but really for anything you buy today, you need to be able to take it out of the box and play it,'' said John Frascotti, Hasbro's chief marketing officer. ''You're not ensconced in the rulebook.''
To that end, Hasbro is shortening and simplifying many of its popular games, changing the formats of Scrabble and Cranium so they can be played in five-minute spurts. Rivals like Mattel are doing the same with games like Apples to Apples. Even video games often come in bite-size pieces, like the popular Angry Birds.
''There is a recognition that people's attention spans maybe aren't as big as they used to be, or they don't have the time to dedicate to this activity,'' said Sean McGowan, a toy analyst with Needham & Company.
Ms. Ritson-Parsons said that while some aspects of the game had changed, Monopoly Live still emphasized social interaction.
''Getting rid of the instruction book encourages a lot more face-to-face interaction,'' she said. ''If you're not having to read as much, you are all chatting more.''
Hasbro has kept key social elements, like allowing negotiation for property.
The adherence to rules also speeds up the game and makes it more interesting, she said. For example, if a player lands on Marvin Gardens but decides not to buy it, the rules mandate that it be auctioned off right away -- but a lot of players do not know or do not follow that rule.
''People were saying, 'It takes me a while to get to own properties,' '' Ms. Ritson-Parsons said. ''Well, it's going to if you don't auction it.''
The new version tries to combat board boredom in other ways. It sprinkles in random events, like a horse race where players must bet on winners.
The computer also tracks how fast or slow play is going, and may intervene to make it lively. If, say, very little property is getting bought, it will announce an auction in the middle of turns.
Hasbro executives said that the company would continue to sell classic Monopoly once the new edition came out.
''It's really just an extension of the brand, not a destruction of what was,'' Mr. Frascotti said.
Mary Flanagan, a game designer and distinguished professor of digital humanities at Dartmouth, said that games tended to reflect the societies that they were played in. For instance, the original Monopoly, issued in 1935 by Parker Brothers, now a subsidiary of Hasbro, reflected ''American ingenuity, the sense of needing to have hope, and reinforcing capitalism in the face of real economic despair,'' she said.
This version, she said, seemed to be ''less and less about financial awareness'' -- children do not need math skills in it-- and more about social interaction.
Yet ''when you say you can't cheat, it means that there's no sense of being able to socially negotiate the rules,'' she said.
Joey Lee, who studies games as an assistant professor of technology and education at Teachers College at Columbia University, said cheating could actually be instructional.
''I wouldn't necessarily even call it cheating,'' he said. ''In many cases a gamer's mind-set is coming up with new and novel approaches to winning, and to a certain problem at hand. That's exactly the kind of mind-set we need as far as 21st-century skills.''
''Being able to negotiate with others, make up your own rules, argue with other players, that, to me, is part of what makes it a successful social game,'' he said. The tower is ''more of that blind adherence to following orders, versus being able to figure out and learn the game for yourself.''
Though Hasbro is emphasizing social interaction with the game, some Monopoly players and academics said the new version sounded much less social -- no arguing over whether a player could buy his neighbor's ''Get Out of Jail Free'' card?
''It takes away from the aspect of interpersonal negotiations if you have an electronic voice in the middle of the board telling you everything to do,'' said Dale Crabtree, a finalist in the national Monopoly championships in 2009. ''The first thing I said was, 'The next thing they'll do away with is the players.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A tower for the new Monopoly oversees players' assets, the game's pace and its rules. (B1)
 Players of Monopoly Live insert cards like this into a computerized tower to check their accounts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (91%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); CHILDREN (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (96%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

TITLE: Monopoly (Video Game)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



424 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: A Handyman's Special With Hot and Cold Rumors

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- From Kirk Morgan's perch, in a mansion at the top of Los Angeles, he can see it all: The snow-covered mountains from the vast windows in one of the seven bathrooms. The Hollywood sign, eye level from the kitchen. And, from the master bedroom, a sweep of Los Angeles stretching from downtown to the Pacific Ocean.
But what he likes best, Mr. Morgan said, are the fevered tales he overhears from the Runyon Canyon Park hikers who pause at the house set amid its own 22 acres that he has guarded for nine months, as they try to unravel the mysteries suggested by this foreboding hillside mansion. For all its aspirations at grandeur, the 16-year-old house at 2450 Solar Drive remains unfinished and vacant, pocked by boarded-up windows and gang graffiti, a jumble of hanging wires and holes cut in the living room ceiling. A Winnebago is parked in the gated front yard. 
There is no shortage of abandoned houses across the country, especially in Los Angeles, the victim of a recession and a collapsing housing market. But few have attained such neighborhood notoriety in their decline as this pink wedding cake of a structure on a hill, all the more so after it went on the market, listed last week for a mere $15.2 million, acreage and all. The real estate agent calls it ''the last big parcel in the Hollywood Hills,'' potential catnip for either a deep-pocketed mogul or a developer who wants to carve it into smaller sites to lure more real estate status seekers up from the flats.
The mansion, which has never been legally occupied, is the subject of gossip and rumor-trading, some of it outlandish, but some, it turns out, quite true. It is feeding Los Angeles's fascination with real estate, sumptuous homes and a good plot -- and all the better that it is a real estate whodunit.
''It has great views, but it is cursed,'' David Tollefson, an airline attendant, said while hiking by the house as dusk fell, lighting up the hues of the scrub-covered hills and canyons of Hollywood that are its backyard. ''It's a haunted house. Or I've heard it's an alien landing site. I've been asking everyone what this is, and no one wants to talk.''
Jason Victor, a hotel worker hiking with Mr. Tollefson, added, ''Have you heard about this being an Indian burial ground?''
Kelly Ramel, an actress, said she had tried to get to the bottom of the tale of the house, but with little success. ''I've checked online,'' she said, ''and it says it was foreclosed and someone was going to turn it into a rehab location place for drug addicts and alcoholics. Or something like that.''
Well, not quite.
Many of the tales -- like the murder that supposedly took place on the pool table in the billiard room -- are urban legend, said Mr. Morgan, 53, the house guard, who was wearing camouflage shorts, a cap and no shirt as he opened the padlocked gate to allow a visitor inside.
''It just blows you away what you hear from these people,'' he said. ''Like it is owned by the Devil. I am a man of the Lord. There ain't no Devil here. I salted this house and also had my Indian friends come over and burn sage.''
But many of the tales are accurate.
Gangs, among them the notorious Armenian Power, really did turn the place into a clubhouse, the police said. Gang tags are still visible on the walls. Teenagers commandeered the carpeted first floor for weekend raves.
Yes, over the years, 2450 Solar Drive has served as a blue-chip crack house, according to the police: its floors were scattered with remnants of crack cocaine, crystal methamphetamine and marijuana.
''And this is where the satanic stuff happened,'' Mr. Morgan said as he led a visitor into a windowless room, pointing to a faded sketch on the wall. ''You can see the image of a devil. And they had chicken feathers hanging on a wire.''
Ralph Sanchez, the senior lead officer for the Hollywood Hills division of the Los Angeles Police Department, said the house was an anomaly for this part of Los Angeles. ''You would not believe it: from gang members to Satanic worshipers,'' he said. ''You name it. The doors were pried open, no matter how many times we nailed them shut.''
The house has had a troubled history almost from the start. The couple who commissioned it divorced and sold it unfinished. It has been embroiled in real estate disputes, most recently a failed partnership in which one of the partners declared bankruptcy amid accusations of fraud. It is, after years of on-and-off construction, legally uninhabitable, exceeding the city's zoning limits on height and lot coverage.
Its current owner is Timothy Devine, a former executive with Columbia Records, who bought out the bankrupt partner. After buying it with partners in 2004 for $3.7 million, Mr. Devine initially put it on the market for $12.5 million in late January. (The price jumped to $15.2 million last week because, as the real estate agent, Richard Klug, cryptically put it, ''We were asked to raise the price to the amount of a previous appraisal.'')
Mr. Devine hired Mr. Morgan to run off the gangs, squatters, crack smokers, interlopers and curiosity seekers. ''I've kicked out 250 people since the time I came here,'' said Mr. Morgan, a surfer and a building contractor. ''They jump the fence. Gangs rushed me right here.''
What did he do about the gangs? ''Well, I'm armed,'' Mr. Morgan said.
For all its views, it is, in the opinion of many of its neighbors, not so wonderful to look at. ''It's a big monstrosity,'' said Steve Curtis, 63, a photographer who said he thought he spotted renegade Christmas parties behind its windows a few years back.
The house is about 9,800 square feet, with seven bathrooms, five bedrooms, a 200-bottle wine cellar, six-car garage, stone floors, a pool, a Jacuzzi with a view of the sunset and all that undeveloped acreage smack in the heart of urban Los Angeles. Cursed or not, it might be an opportunity for someone with a thick wallet to place his stamp on the city in a loud way.
Mr. Klug said he had inquiries from one person who ''was very substantial,'' though he declined to give details.
He also suggested that this was the ultimate fixer-upper. ''It's a mess,'' Mr. Klug said. ''They had to open all the ceilings because the city said you have to put sprinklers in. So it just looks ridiculous.''
The property listing suggests other possible fates. ''All sorts of subdivision possibilities exist,'' it says. ''So bring your developers/contractors and clients who want something rare and unique.''
All this talk has sent quivers of concern through city officials and preservationists anxious to protect an undeveloped spot in this city, though the homeowners association in a neighborhood that likes its privacy sniffed at the idea that there was anything to worry about.
''I can't imagine why you want to write an article about this particular house,'' said Susan Mullins, the president of the Upper Nichols Canyon Neighborhood Association. ''There is really nothing that we have to talk about in an article.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This unfinished mansion on 22 acres near Runyon Canyon in the Hollywood Hills above Los Angeles is for sale. The asking price is $15.2 million. (A14)
 Kirk Morgan working this month as the security guard for the long-unfinished mansion perched in the Hollywood Hills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAPS (MAP PHOTOGRAPH BY GOOGLE) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HIKING (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); VANDALISM (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); CEMETERIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



425 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Seeking To Expand Grip To Fight Fraud

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- When Andrew M. Cuomo was sworn in as New York's chief executive six weeks ago, he took control of a multibillion-dollar budget, tens of thousands of state workers and hundreds of agencies.
But Mr. Cuomo appears to want to hang on to his old job, too.
Buried in the governor's new budget are provisions that would grant the executive branch sweeping new powers to investigate Wall Street banks, hedge funds and insurance companies, alarming some industry officials and raising the prospect of a major clash with his successor as attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, and local prosecutors over high-profile securities and investment cases.
The provisions accompany Mr. Cuomo's proposed merger of the state's Insurance and Banking Departments, along with the Consumer Protection Board, into a new Department of Financial Regulation. Mr. Cuomo has argued that those changes are necessary to create a more efficient and modern regulatory framework for businesses and better protection for consumers. 
But the budget language would also empower the new agency to issue subpoenas, compel testimony and seek damages and penalties from anyone committing ''financial fraud,'' a term defined broadly to encompass investments, securities and derivatives marketed and sold by Wall Street investment houses, as well as financial services, life insurance and more.
Mr. Cuomo's proposal would also grant the agency authority to investigate any violation of the Martin Act, the 90-year-old statute that gives the New York attorney general the broadest legal powers of any regulator in the nation and which was employed aggressively by Mr. Cuomo and his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, to prosecute Wall Street firms.
The plan startled some in the financial community, and the administration appears to be quickly revising the language to head off potential opposition.
Mr. Cuomo's communications director, Richard Bamberger, said the governor agreed to remove the Martin Act provisions after business groups raised concerns earlier this month, and alerted Mr. Schneiderman that they would do so. Mr. Bamberger said the provisions had been inserted by mistake and would be struck from the amended proposal Mr. Cuomo will submit in early March.
Yet even absent those provisions, Mr. Cuomo's proposal is fairly sweeping -- intentionally so, his aides said. In an era of global finance, they said, a single regulator with broad jurisdiction would be more effective than the patchwork of agencies charged with protecting New Yorkers from financial fraud. The new agency would also be empowered to oversee types of firms that are now relatively lightly regulated, including hedge funds.
''It is indisputable that New York has an ineffective and outdated regulatory structure that failed to protect millions of innocent consumers and contributed to a worldwide financial collapse,'' Mr. Bamberger said in a statement. ''It is amazing that some can still argue that Wall Street doesn't need better regulation after greed and corruption almost caused another Great Depression.''
Some experts said the new agency's powers would in many ways exceed those of the attorney general. The new agency could impose fines and even seek restitution for an almost unlimited array of financial frauds -- all through administrative hearings, without going to court.
''The bill provides the governor with significantly expanded administrative authority, including restitution and higher fines, that would make the new agency powerful even beyond the ability to take companies to court,'' Mark Peters, a former state insurance official who now represents clients in private practice at Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge, said in an e-mail. Legislative leaders have yet to weigh in on the language, which requires approval from lawmakers.
Critics call it an unwarranted expansion of executive branch authority.
''Even Eliot Spitzer didn't have the audacity to make the sort of power grab that Governor Cuomo is proposing here,'' said Darren McKinney, a spokesman for the American Tort Reform Association, a business-backed group that advocates for limits on lawsuits and liability for business.
An executive at a large hedge fund, who demanded anonymity because he feared retribution should the merger occur, said: ''This is a real shock. It raises very serious issues about the appropriate governance structure of financial regulation in New York.''
Under Mr. Cuomo's proposal, jurisdiction in criminal cases would remain with the attorney general and local district attorneys. But the proposal appears to allow the new agency to investigate more than a dozen types of criminal violations, like larceny, forgery, bribery and even racketeering, if those crimes involve a financial product or service or people who sell them.
The new department could also compel witnesses to testify in exchange for immunity. While Cuomo aides argued that such powers were not new to New York banking and insurance regulators, some experts said the bill raised the risk of administrative investigations interfering with criminal cases.
''The concern would be that a state agency could confer immunity on someone that a district attorney is investigating without the district attorney's knowledge,'' said Paul Shechtman, a former federal and state prosecutor who is now a defense lawyer.
Experts said Mr. Cuomo's proposal would transform the existing Insurance and Banking Departments from traditional regulatory agencies focused largely on compliance and rule-making into an unprecedented amalgam of regulator, prosecutor and judge. It could have the effect of transforming the superintendent of the new agency into a second ''sheriff of Wall Street,'' forcing Mr. Schneiderman, a fellow Democrat with whom Mr. Cuomo has clashed in the past, to compete for high-profile cases.
Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Mr. Schneiderman, declined to comment on the powers envisioned in the legislation. But in a statement, Mr. Kanner said, ''The attorney general supports the concept of merging these departments for the purpose of consolidation, and looks forward to continued discussions with the governor's office on other details of the proposal, as well as other reforms to state government.''
The legislation does not formally strip any powers from the attorney general. But while Mr. Cuomo has described the merger in part as a way to save money, his executive budget anticipates that the operations of the new agency would cost about $6 million more than its three predecessors in its first year of operation. (Aides said that merger had since been ''rescored,'' in budget parlance, and was now expected to result in year-to-year savings.) At the same time, Mr. Cuomo's budget reduces the budget of the office of the attorney general by roughly 10 percent.
Historically, the attorney general and the Banking and Insurance Departments have shared a creative tension. The agencies focused on day-to-day compliance, while the attorney general's prosecutors, under Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Cuomo, opened up large-scale cases -- often against powerful firms and interests -- with an eye toward tackling systemic problems, whether those were corruption among research analysts or conflicts of interest in the student loan industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A proposal by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo could compel witnesses to testify in exchange for immunity from prosecutions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANS PENNINK/REUTERS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); MERGERS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); DAMAGES (66%); GOVERNORS (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



426 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: ING to Sell Real Estate Units for $1 Billion to Repay State Aid

BYLINE: By ADRIENNE CARTER

 BODY:
7:24 p.m. Updated
The ING Group said Tuesday that it would sell most of its real estate investment management business for more than $1 billion in two separate deals and use the proceeds to repay state aid it received during the financial crisis. 
The CB Richard Ellis Group, the property broker, will acquire ING's real estate securities business in Europe and Asia as well as its global listed securities unit for $940 million. With the deal, CB Richard Ellis will add nearly $60 billion in assets to its portfolio.
''Our firms fit together well and our investment program offerings are highly complementary,'' Brett White, chief executive of CB Richard Ellis, said in a statement.
ING also agreed to sell Clarion Partners, the United States real estate investment manager, to the firm's management and the private equity group Lightyear Capital for around $100 million.
With the financial system on the brink in 2008, the Dutch government bailed out ING, providing 10 billion euros ($13.5 billion) in rescue funds. As part of the terms of the deal, ING agreed to separate its banking and insurance businesses.
Currently, the company is moving forward with plans to spin off its insurance operations, possibly through an offering in the United States and one in Europe. The bank, which is set to report fourth-quarter earnings on Wednesday, still owes about 5 billion euros, plus a 2.5 billion-euro penalty.
''With these transactions we continue to deliver on our strategic objectives of reducing exposure to real estate, simplifying our company and further strengthening our capital base,'' said Jan Hommen, chief executive of ING, in a statement.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); EURO (72%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (93%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: BRETT WHITE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (88%); NETHERLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



427 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Said to Have Harsh Assessment of Troubled Kabul Bank

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- An International Monetary Fund review of the Afghan government's progress in determining what went wrong at the nation's largest bank and the steps necessary to fix it has concluded that so little has been done so far that there is no possibility of renewing the fund's program here, diplomats in Kabul said.
What is needed is an array of measures to deal with the Kabul Bank's problems, as well as those of the banking system, and putting the Kabul Bank into receivership, the I.M.F. said in a statement issued after its experts left the country. 
''This will be followed by a process where the bank will be rapidly sold or wound down and the Central Bank is recapitalized with government resources as needed,'' the fund said.
Although that assessment, given to diplomats in Kabul at a briefing on Monday, in the short term jeopardizes at least $1 billion in foreign donations to Afghanistan, and possibly far more, the I.M.F. statement issued late Tuesday suggested that the organization's team was encouraged by its visit and thought that the Afghan government was trying to find a way to resolve the Kabul Bank's problems and move towards selling the bank.
''The mission held productive discussions with the authorities on their policy framework and reform plans, including monetary and fiscal policies as well as measures to address the situation of Kabul Bank and strengthen the financial system,'' the I.M.F. said in the statement
The assessment was provided to diplomats in Kabul on Monday as the I.M.F. team completed a 10-day visit to the country, the third since last September, when large losses were disclosed at Kabul Bank. Those losses led to a run on deposits and forced the Central Bank to step in to stabilize it.
The I.M.F. is looking for a comprehensive plan to resolve the problems at Kabul Bank -- which include corruption, fraud and mismanagement -- as well as seeking an overhaul of the financial system to ensure that the problems never recur, diplomats said. So far, the Afghan government has not satisfied the I.M.F., although the organization said it was satisfied that steps had been taken to reassure depositors and to put the Kabul Bank under the control of the Central Bank.
The I.M.F.'s program in Afghanistan involves little in direct payments, but its scrutiny of the monetary and banking systems here acts as a bill of health for other donors, including the United States, Britain and the European Union, assuring them that the country is safe enough that they can invest in it. Without an I.M.F. program, most donors are leery of making any major donations to another country. Afghanistan pays for only a small portion of its operating budget and receives billions of dollars in reconstruction aid and other support.
''The situation at Kabul Bank shows the complete lack of banking regulation in this country,'' said a Western diplomat here who attended the briefing. ''This has been going on for five months, and I am astonished the Afghan government has not dealt with this,'' the diplomat said, referring to the Kabul Bank crisis.
The troubles not only jeopardize the money from donors, but will almost certainly delay the Afghan government's request, ratified at the Kabul Conference last summer, to have 50 percent of all foreign aid given to Afghan government ministries rather than spent directly by the foreign donors on projects in the country.
''The idea that people would entrust 50 percent of their money to the Afghan government is a nonstarter in this environment,'' said a Western official in Kabul.
However, it appears unlikely that Western countries, which have such a large stake in Afghanistan's stability, would halt donations entirely, several diplomats said. More probable is that there will be delays and gaps in the flow of money and aid while donors wait to see what the I.M.F. does, diplomats and financial experts in Kabul said.
Efforts to get a comment from Afghanistan's Central Bank were not successful because the country is at the beginning of a four-day holiday.
In the I.M.F.'s statement on its team's visit, the organization outlined the steps it hoped the government would take to resolve the problem. They said a transparent financing plan would be needed to pay to resolve any losses, that fraud should be prosecuted and that the Kabul Bank should be put into receivership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUDGETS (67%); CORRUPTION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



428 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Hits 4%, Double The Target, In Britain

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Inflation in Britain rose to 4 percent in January, the highest level in two years, after the government increased a sales tax and the price of oil rose.
The annual rate, up from 3.7 percent in December, was twice the Bank of England's inflation target of 2 percent, the Office for National Statistics said on Tuesday.
Mervyn King, as the governor of the Bank of England, is required to write to the Treasury every three months whenever inflation moves away from the bank's 2 percent target by more than one percentage point in either direction. Mr. King wrote his fifth such letter in a year. 
In the letter, he blamed higher commodity and energy prices and an increase in the sales tax for the price increases. He also said inflation could rise to almost 5 percent in the next few months, higher than the Bank of England had predicted.
But Mr. King repeated his view that the inflation rate probably would recede in 2012.
''There is a great deal of uncertainty about the medium-term outlook for inflation,'' he wrote. ''As the temporary effects of the factors listed above wane, inflation will fall back so that it is about as likely to be above the target as below it two to three years ahead.''
The pace of consumer price increases exceeded the central bank's target for a 14th consecutive month, heightening pressure on its Monetary Policy Committee to consider raising interest rates, although Britain's economy shrank in the fourth quarter of last year.
Inflation in Britain is higher than in the United States and in the euro region. At the same time, some economists warned that raising rates too soon could jeopardize Britain's fragile economy.
''This is another kick in the teeth on the inflation front for the Bank of England, albeit slightly less hard than some had feared,'' Howard Archer, chief economist at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a note to clients. ''It maintains pressure on the bank to retaliate by raising interest rates sooner rather than later.''
The largest price increases were in fuel, restaurants, alcoholic drinks and cars, the statistics office said. Costs for DVDs, clothing and banking services declined. The office said the price increases were caused mainly by an increase in the value-added tax, to 20 percent from 17.5 percent, in January.
Britain's Treasury expects to raise about $:13 billion, or $21 billion, a year from the tax increase, which is part of an austerity package aimed at cutting the country's record budget deficit, $:160 billion, or 11.4 percent of gross domestic product.
The Bank of England kept its interest rates at 0.5 percent this month, but some committee members have already voted for an interest rate increase in light of rising inflation. One other member continued to push for more quantitative easing, however, warning that the economy was still too weak to withstand the far-reaching austerity measures the government planned.
In his letter, Mr. King said he did ''not wish to conceal that there are real differences of view within the committee, reflecting different judgments about the risks.''
Some economists had adjusted their views based on the rising inflation rate and now predict a rate increase sooner than before.
The Bank of England is expected to revise its inflation forecast when it publishes its inflation report Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



429 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Switzerland Vows to Help In Pursuit Of Tax Cheats

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Switzerland said on Tuesday that it would make it easier for other countries to chase tax evaders hiding assets within its borders.
The finance minister, Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, said at a news conference in Bern that the government would now provide administrative assistance in cases where foreign governments sought information on account holders, even when they had incomplete data about the suspected tax evaders. 
The Swiss have refused to help with requests for account information in cases where foreign investigators could not provide both a name and address, a requirement that cannot be met in a small number of cases. But a peer review, sponsored by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, that criticized the policy led to a reversal.
''The peer review found that we are too restrictive in some double-taxation agreements with regards to the name and the holder of the information,'' Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf said, according to Reuters. She said Switzerland would allow other means of identifying accounts once Parliament approved the change.
Such methods could include Social Security numbers, credit card details or the International Bank Account Numbers tracking system.
One sticking point has been a fear that governments might use scattershot requests for banking data without real grounds for suspecting wrongdoing. Switzerland will continue to refuse cooperation in ''fishing expeditions,'' the finance ministry said in a statement.
After the revision, Switzerland would be ''in line with the globally applicable standard, without going beyond it,'' the ministry said.
Jeffrey Owens, director of the Center for Tax Policy and Administration at the O.E.C.D., described the move as a ''useful technical clarification'' of the way Switzerland interpreted its tax treaty obligations, and ''a very useful step forward.''
''At the end of the day, I'm certain the Swiss banks can compete on the basis of the services they provide, rather than on secrecy,'' Mr. Owens said. ''I think we are coming to the end of the days of offshore noncompliance.''
Since 2009, the Swiss have been moving toward adopting the O.E.C.D.'s principles on transparency and information exchange for tax cooperation. As the world's most important center for offshore private banking, Switzerland came under harsh scrutiny as the financial crisis led governments to turn more attention to tracking down earnings stashed abroad.
The country has already stopped differentiating between tax fraud and tax evasion for international purposes, a distinction that had caused considerable friction with other governments.
The move was given a push by a Justice Department investigation into suspected tax evasion by thousands of clients of UBS, the biggest Swiss bank. UBS has paid $780 million in fines and agreed to turn over the names of about 4,500 American clients to end the inquiry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); PRIVATE BANKING (64%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (85%); UBS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (90%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



430 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Markets Retreat as Exxon Leads Energy Shares Down

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks retreated, pulling the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down from a 32-month high, after a report showed retail sales increased less than forecast, and Exxon Mobil led a decline in energy producers. 
Exxon Mobil slid 2.3 percent for its biggest drop since August as investors analyzed data on its proven reserves. Monsanto sank 4.8 percent as George Soros's hedge fund cut its stake.
The S.& P. 500 retreated 4.31 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,328.01, ending a three-day rally. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 41.55 points, or 0.34 percent, to 12,226.64. The Nasdaq composite index fell 12.83 points, or 0.46 percent, to 2,804.35.
Commerce Department figures showed that January retail sales increased less than economists had estimated and might have been affected by harsh weather.
''It's quite simple -- people are trying to discern between weather conditions and economic momentum,'' said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond, Va. ''There's been some confusion about the impact of the weather on the overall figures, as we saw with retail sales today. That adds up to some nervousness following a strong advance for stocks.''
Interest rates were slightly lower. The Treasury's 10-year note rose 4/32, to 100 5/32, and the yield slipped to 3.60 percent from 3.62 percent late Monday.
Energy and raw materials producers had the biggest declines among 10 S.& P. 500 groups, down 1.1 percent collectively.
Exxon Mobil fell the most in the Dow average, down 2.3 percent to $82.97. Exxon said engineers found more oil and natural gas than expected in fields that came with its acquisition of XTO Energy. Revised estimates and discoveries at the end of 2010 added the equivalent of 3.5 billion barrels of crude to its proved reserves, enough to replace 209 percent of last year's production.
Excluding the acquisition, the reserve replacement ratio ''would have only been 45 percent,'' Paul Cheng, an analyst at Barclays Capital, wrote in a note. The ''poor organic replacement ratio'' could reignite concern over whether Exxon acquired XTO only for reserves and production growth, Mr. Cheng wrote.
Monsanto, the agricultural company, sank 4.8 percent, to $71.54. The $27 billion Soros Fund Management cut its stake to 3.29 million shares, from 6.52 million in the previous quarter, according to a regulatory filing.
Netflix declined 2.7 percent, to $240.79. The company was cut to equal weight from overweight at Morgan Stanley.
Shares of exchanges slumped. Deutsche Borse's $9.53 billion all-stock purchase of the New York Stock Exchange's parent, NYSE Euronext, creates the world's largest owner of equities and derivatives markets. The deal forms an organization with market share in futures that is similar to CME Group of Chicago.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEATHER (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (98%); MONSANTO CO (57%); RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (50%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); NETFLIX INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (98%); MON (NYSE) (57%); NYX (PAR) (50%); NYX (NYSE) (50%); MS (NYSE) (50%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (50%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (75%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



431 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Bahrain Takes the Stage With a Raucous Protest

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nadim Audi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- Thousands of protesters poured into this nation's symbolic center, Pearl Square, late Tuesday in a raucous rally that again demonstrated the power of popular movements that are transforming the political landscape of the Middle East.
In a matter of hours, this small, strategically important monarchy experienced the now familiar sequence of events that has rocked the Arab world. What started as an online call for a ''Day of Rage'' progressed within 24 hours to an exuberant group of demonstrators, cheering, waving flags, setting up tents and taking over the grassy traffic circle beneath the towering monument of a pearl in the heart of Manama, the capital.
The crowd grew bolder as it grew larger, and as in Tunisia and Egypt, modest concessions from the government only raised expectations among the protesters, who by day's end were talking about tearing the whole system down, monarchy and all.
Then as momentum built up behind the protests on Tuesday, the 18 members of Parliament from the Islamic National Accord Association, the traditional opposition, announced that they were suspending participation in the legislature. 
The mood of exhilaration stood in marked contrast to a day that began in sorrow and violence, when mourners who had gathered to bury a young man killed the night before by the police clashed again with the security forces.
In that melee, a second young man was killed, also by the police.
''We are going to get our demands,'' said Hussein Ramadan, 32, a political activist and organizer who helped lead the crowds from the burial site to Pearl Square. ''The people are angry, but we will control our anger, we will not burn a single tire or throw a single rock. We will not go home until we succeed. They want us to be violent. We will not.''
Bahrain is best known as a Persian Gulf base for the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet and as a playground for residents of Saudi Arabia who can drive over a causeway to enjoy the nightclubs and bars of the far more permissive kingdom. Its ruler, King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, is an important ally of the United States in fighting terrorism and countering Iranian influence in the region.
It is far too soon to tell where Bahrain's popular political uprising will go. The demands are economic -- people want jobs -- as well as political, in that most would like to see the nation transformed from an absolute monarchy into a constitutional one. But the events here, inspired by the uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt, have altered the dynamics in a nation where political expression has long been tamed by harsh police tactics and prison terms.
In a rare speech to the nation, the king expressed his regret on national television over the two young men killed by the police and called for an investigation into the deaths. But in an unparalleled move he also instructed his police force to allow more than 10,000 demonstrators to claim Pearl Square as their own.
As night fell Tuesday and a cold wind blew off the Persian Gulf, thousands of demonstrators occupied the square or watched from a highway overpass, cheering. Where a day earlier the police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at any gatherings that tried to protest, no matter how small, or peaceful, people now waved the red and white flag of Bahrain, gave speeches, chanted slogans and shared food.
The police massed on the other side of a bridge leading to the square. A police helicopter never stopped circling, but took no action, to the protesters' surprise.
By 10 p.m., many of the people headed home from the square, with many saying they had plans to return the next day. A core group planned to spend the night there in tents.
''Now the people are the real players, not the government, not the opposition,'' said Matar Ibrahim Matar, 34, an opposition member of Parliament who joined the crowd gathered beneath the mammoth statue. ''I don't think anyone expected this, not the government, not us.''
Bahrain's domestic politics have long been tangled. The king and the ruling elite are Sunni Muslims. The majority, or about 70 percent, of the local population of about 500,000, are Shiite Muslims. The Shiites claim they are discriminated against in jobs, housing and education, and their political demands are not new.
The demonstrators have asked for the release of political prisoners, the creation of a more representative and empowered Parliament, the establishment of a constitution written by the people and the formation of a new, more representative cabinet. They complain bitterly that the prime minister, Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, the king's uncle, has been in office for 40 years.
They also want the government to stop the practice of offering citizenship to foreigners willing to come to Bahrain to serve as police officers or soldiers, a tactic they say is aimed at trying to reduce the influence of Shiites by increasing the number of Sunnis.
While the demands are standard here, what is new is the way the demonstrations have unfolded, following the script from Egypt and Tunisia. Young people organized a protest using online tools like Twitter and Facebook. They tapped into growing frustrations with economic hardship and political repression but were not aided by the traditional opposition movements.
The day began early, around 7 a.m., at the Salmaniya Medical Complex, where Ali Mushaima, 21, died the night before from a shotgun wound to his back. About 2,000 mourners lined up in a parking lot behind a truck that carried his coffin on its roof.
As soon as the procession exited the hospital grounds, a young man bolted from the crowd and charged at the police standing nearby. He threw a rock and the police fired tear gas into the crowd. They fired other weapons, too, and Fadel Matrouq, 31, was killed.
The mourners regrouped a block away and walked slowly for about 90 minutes behind the coffin to the Jidi Haffiz cemetery, a dusty expanse of sun-baked land dotted with simple graves. For more than an hour thousands of people milled peacefully around the area in a blend of politics, mourning and faith.
Mr. Mushaima's father was escorted by both arms gently through the crowd, after his son was laid out on a white tile table, washed for burial and wrapped in a cloth decorated with golden Arabic script from the Koran. When the body was taken to the gravesite, there were as many as 10,000 people in the street, some mourning, some calling for the government to be dissolved, some chanting slogans and prayers.
Among the crowd were some people who carried protest signs stating their political demands, while others carried black, yellow and red flags that said ''Ya Hussein,'' referring to the most revered figure in Shiite Islam.
When the body was in the ground, people in the crowd moved toward Pearl Square, not knowing if they would arrive at their destination or be cut off by the police, again. When they made it, they rejoiced.
''The government has brought us past the tipping point,'' said Abd al-Amir al-Jawri, 40, an activist who was elated as he recorded events with a video camera. ''This is it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators in Bahrain carried defaced posters of the king and the crown prince on Tuesday. (A1)
 Thousands of demonstrators converged on Pearl Square in Manama, Bahrain, on Tuesday as mourners at a funeral merged with an antigovernment protest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAPS: The American Navy's Fifth Fleet is based in Bahrain. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); NAVIES (70%); RELIGION (67%); TERRORISM (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (72%) BAHRAIN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); TUNISIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



432 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: 30 Steps To Better Government

BYLINE: By GENE L. DODARO. 
Gene L. Dodaro is the comptroller general of the United States and the head of the Government Accountability Office.

 BODY:
Washington
CALLS for greater government efficiency are nothing new in Washington. But with President Obama and Congress now debating budgets for both the rest of this year and the next, with the economy yet to fully recover from the recent recession and with our government's finances still on an unsustainable long-term path, the need to wring every dollar out of the federal budget and ensure that taxpayers are getting their money's worth has never been greater. How, though, do you find these savings?
Today, the Government Accountability Office is issuing its updated roadmap to confronting waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement. Since we started this list of programs at high risk of such problems two decades ago, our office has come to update it with each new Congress, and history shows that sustained, focused oversight from lawmakers and administration officials can save billions of dollars and improve services. But while over one-third of the programs we listed previously have come off the list over the years, dozens of others have moved onto it. The latest high-risk list presents 30 areas ripe for Congress and President Obama to take action. 
One new area on the list is the Interior Department's management of oil and gas leases and royalties, which are among the largest sources of non-tax revenue to the federal government. One reason this area is at risk is that the department does not have reasonable assurance that all revenues are being collected. Indeed, in 2008, the G.A.O. reported that the Interior Department had not conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the federal oil and gas revenue system in more than 25 years, despite significant changes in the oil and gas industry.
We have also pointed out that royalty collection relied too heavily on company-reported oil and gas production figures. In fiscal years 2006 and 2007 we found that much of the data reported by oil and gas companies appeared erroneous, resulting in millions in uncollected fees. And the proportion of revenues that the government collected for oil and gas produced in the Gulf of Mexico, according to a major study, was lower than for 93 of 104 other owners of such resources.
In recent years, the G.A.O. has made more than 50 recommendations to the interior secretary to improve the department's revenue collection and hiring, training and retaining staff policies and modify its practices for managing oil and gas resources. The Interior Department has been acting on some of these recommendations -- but there were many more that still need to be put into effect. As the G.A.O. and other institutions continue to examine these issues, additional problems and recommendations will likely be identified as well.
We are also dropping two issues from the high-risk list: the Department of Defense's personnel security clearance program, which processes hundreds of thousands of security clearances annually for service members and civilians, and the 2010 Census. Both dealt sufficiently with identified vulnerabilities to warrant their removal. Three factors contributed to this success: high-level support from agencies, clear measures with which to gauge progress and strong Congressional oversight. Credit goes to the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee for holding the agencies involved accountable.
Several other items remaining on the high-risk list illustrate the magnitude of the potential savings that are possible. For example, the Medicare and Medicaid programs need to add better detection and controls to curtail billions of dollars in improper payments.
In fiscal year 2010 alone, Medicare had estimated improper payments of almost $48 billion; this estimate did not include improper payments in its prescription drug benefit program, for which the agency has not yet determined a total amount. And because Medicare remains on a path that is fiscally unsustainable over the long term, there is heightened pressure to improve its payment methods, as well as its management and oversight of program operations and patient care.
As for Medicaid, it has taken steps to improve transparency and reduce improper payments in recent years, but more can be done. Improper payments to providers that submit inappropriate claims can result in substantial financial losses to states and the federal government. The Department of Health and Human Services has estimated a national improper payment rate for Medicaid of 9.4 percent (with the federal share estimated at $22.5 billion) for fiscal year 2010.
Certain services may be more susceptible than others to improper payments. For example, in 2009 the G.A.O. found that Medicaid beneficiaries and providers were involved in potentially wasteful or abusive purchases of controlled substances in five selected states. Specifically, we found that Medicaid paid over $2 million in controlled substance prescriptions during fiscal years 2006 and 2007 that were written or filled by 65 medical practitioners and pharmacies barred, excluded or both from federal health care programs, including Medicaid.
As a result, the G.A.O. recommended that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issue guidelines to states for processes that better prevent payment of improper claims for controlled substances in Medicaid. The agency generally agreed with our recommendations -- yet such guidance had not been issued by the end of last year.
Billions more could flow to the Treasury through better enforcement of the tax laws and closing the gap between taxes owed and paid. Typically, about 84 percent of owed taxes are paid voluntarily and on time; in its most recent estimate, for 2001, the I.R.S. said the resulting net gap was $290 billion. Congress and the I.R.S. have taken innovative actions aimed at further improving tax compliance. The I.R.S. last year began putting in place regulations covering paid tax return preparers, an important step given the critical role they play in helping taxpayers meet their tax obligations. Congress also passed laws that require financial institutions to report information on foreign bank accounts, the cost basis of securities and merchants' credit card receipts.
Greater attention also needs to be paid to how the Pentagon acquires weapon systems. Each year, investments totaling hundreds of billions of dollars too often produce military equipment that is over budget, behind schedule or unable to meet the needs of our troops. The Government Accountability Office has previously reported that the growth in projected costs on the Defense Department's fiscal year 2008 portfolio of 96 defense acquisition programs was more than $303 billion (adjusted for inflation). In addition, the average delay in delivering initial capability was 22 months.
For 42 programs the G.A.O. assessed in depth in 2010, there was continued improvement in the amount of knowledge the department had on the technology, design and manufacturing of these weapons programs at key points in the acquisition process. Most programs, however, were still proceeding with less knowledge than best practices suggest, putting them at higher risk for cost growth and schedule delays.
Congress and top officials responsible for programs on the high-risk list have been willing to address these issues. For example, in 2009, Congress required that the Defense Department's weapons acquisition programs now reflect the basic elements of a knowledge-based acquisition approach and that programs with excessive cost growth be terminated. In addition, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has proposed canceling major defense acquisition programs that have been plagued with cost and schedule problems.
OUR list also includes programs that are at risk not for financial reasons but because they need better management or broad transformation. Take information security, which the G.A.O. first identified as a government-wide problem in 1997. Our office in 2003 expanded this high-risk area to include critical elements -- like power distribution, water supply, telecommunications and emergency services -- that rely extensively on computerized information systems and electronic data to carry out their operations.
The security of these systems and data is essential to protecting national and economic security, and public health and safety; and at the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security and numerous other federal agencies, progress is being made. But cyber threats are growing and evolving, reported security incidents are rising and significant security deficiencies pervade federal systems that jeopardize the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the federal government's security and the information they process.
In addition, the administration and executive branch agencies have not yet fully carried out key actions that are intended to improve the current United States approach to cybersecurity: developing a comprehensive national strategy for addressing global cybersecurity and governance; creating a national and federal research and development agenda for improving cybersecurity; carrying out the near- and mid-term actions recommended by the 2009 cybersecurity policy review directed by the president and updating the national strategy for securing the information and communications infrastructure.
Top agency officials and the Office of Management and Budget have been working with the Government Accountability Office to make greater progress on the high-risk list, and continued Congressional oversight has been essential to this progress. By focusing on oversight and acting to reform these programs on the high-risk list, Congress and the White House send an important message: the public must receive the best possible return on every tax dollar spent. Closing our nation's fiscal gap will require broader budgetary changes and shared contributions. Greater efficiency and effectiveness in government can help ease that burden on the American people while preserving vital programs of importance to us all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOGELSON-LUBLINER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); NONTAX REVENUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (70%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (70%); ROYALTIES (70%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); OIL & GAS LEASES (65%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



433 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Pushes $61 Billion in Cutbacks

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Even as the White House threatened a veto, House Republicans pushed ahead Tuesday with their plan to slice tens of billions of dollars from current federal spending, with some arguing for even deeper cuts.
Members of the new House majority acknowledged that cutting spending by $61 billion through Sept. 30 would touch virtually every corner of the government, reducing popular services and eliminating federal jobs.
But they said that painful steps were necessary because of the federal deficit. ''Over the last two years, since President Obama has taken office, the federal government has added 200,000 new federal jobs,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said. ''And if some of those jobs are lost in this, so be it. We're broke.'' 
For both Republicans and Democrats, this debate is a contentious precursor to coming clashes over raising the federal debt limit and working on Mr. Obama's budget proposal for 2012.
At the White House, the administration promised a veto were the House measure to pass Congress, which seems unlikely given strong resistance in the Senate, which is controlled by Democrats.
''The bill proposes cuts that would sharply undermine core government functions and investments key to economic growth and job creation, and would reduce funding for the Department of Defense to a level that would leave the department without the resources and flexibility needed to meet vital military requirements,'' the White House said.
The current stopgap measure financing the government expires March 4. If the House and Senate are unable to come to an agreement before then or if the financing is not extended temporarily, federal agencies could be shut down. Demonstrating the emphasis Republicans have put on the spending cuts, the spending measure is listed as House Resolution No. 1.
Even as Democrats attacked proposed cuts to programs that help economically struggling Americans and to initiatives involving education, the environment, housing and employment, Republicans lined up to make deeper reductions. The first amendment offered was a proposal to eliminate more than $18 million from the Pentagon budget.
''The point has to be made that the defense budget is not sacrosanct,'' Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said of his proposal. ''We can't say if it's defense, it is all good.''
But the proposal was defeated on a vote of 223 to 207 and other initial efforts to make deeper reductions failed as well.
Members of both parties were pushing changes to the measure, with more than 400 amendments proposed for a potentially free-wheeling debate that was scheduled to extend over three days.
The proposed amendments were both fiscal and ideological, including eliminating money for Planned Parenthood and preventing the federal government from blocking Arizona's new immigration law. One Democratic amendment would ban the military from sponsorship of Nascar race cars.
Democrats heaped criticism on the spending plan, saying it was rushed together and bit too deeply into programs that were intended to increase employment and provide help for those who are suffering the effects of the sluggish economy. Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, called the measure ''reckless, thoughtless and heartless'' and his colleagues promised to oppose it fiercely as well.
They attacked a plan to cut home heating aid for low-income residents in the Northeast and Midwest, criticized sweeping cuts in community health programs and decried the elimination of a Clinton-era program to pay for extra police officers in communities across the country. A plan to reduce the maximum Pell grants in midyear by $845 for millions of college students drew strong opposition as well.
Representative Donna Edwards, Democrat of Maryland, noted that reduction was about equal to the cost of textbooks for the year, and she suggested that affected students ''send their book bills to the speaker.''
Democrats, as well as some Republicans, also noted that the Republican push to rein in discretionary domestic spending will have little impact on the deficit and debt since most of the red ink is a result of the mounting costs of social entitlement programs like Medicare.
''You will still have an operating deficit this year if we cut every nickel of discretionary spending,'' Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, said.
Democrats said the cuts would eliminate thousands of jobs across the country, exacerbating already high unemployment. They accused Mr. Boehner of acting callously in so easily accepting the loss of federal jobs.
Republicans, acknowledging the significant scope of the cuts, said the nation could no longer afford to keep spending at such high levels and that attacking the deficit could lead to a more stable economy.
''This is about putting America back to work,'' said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the No. 3 House Republican.
The House bill is certain to meet a hostile reception in the Democratic-controlled Senate, where the leadership instead backs Mr. Obama's call for a five-year freeze on domestic spending, a move they say would save an estimated $400 billion over a decade.
''Balancing the budget on the backs of really poor people and the middle class is what they're trying to sneak in this legislation,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said of the Republicans. He accused them of advancing ''legislation they know they can't get passed.''
But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Senate Republicans would to try to win at least the same amount of spending reductions backed by the House, though they might aim for different cuts.
''We're going to try to achieve the same reduction in total that we hope will be achieved on the House side later this week,'' Mr. McConnell said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker John A. Boehner, above, led budget-cutting efforts on Tuesday. At left, Representatives Charles B. Rangel, right, and Sander M. Levin, center, at a budget hearing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); VETO (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (60%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); NASCAR RACING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); JEFF FLAKE (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



434 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Ecuadoreans Plan to Pursue Chevron in Other Countries

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Simon Romero reported from Caracas, and Clifford Krauss from Houston. John Schwartz contributed reporting from New York, and Irene Caselli from Quito, Ecuador.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- Armed with a $9 billion ruling against Chevron in Ecuador but little chance of collecting it there, representatives for Ecuadorean villagers said Tuesday that they were looking at waging legal battles against the company in more than a dozen countries where it operates, hoping to force Chevron to pay.
The latest salvo, coming only a day after an Ecuadorean judge ordered Chevron to pay one of the largest environmental awards ever, suggests that the legal battle between villagers and oil executives, which began in 1993, is far from over. 
The case stems from oil pollution in the Ecuadorean rain forest, but Chevron does not operate there and has no significant assets in the country. It was Texaco, which Chevron acquired in a merger in 2001, that was accused of widespread environmental damage before pulling out of Ecuador in the early 1990s.
Chevron has much larger operations elsewhere in Latin America, and the plaintiffs' strategy of pursuing the company across the region could open a contentious new phase in the case -- one that would test Ecuador's political ties with its neighbors and involve some of Washington's most prominent lobbyists and lawyers.
Advisers to the plaintiffs said Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela would be obvious candidates to pursue Chevron assets, but they acknowledged it would not be easy. Venezuela, for instance, is a close Ecuadorean ally and its president, Hugo Chavez, is a frequent critic of the United States. But Chevron has extensive operations in Venezuela and enjoys warmer ties with Mr. Chavez's government than just about any other American company.
The plaintiffs also face an uphill struggle collecting damages in the United States, at least immediately, given that a judge in New York this month temporarily prevented enforcement of the Ecuador awards. Still, legal advisers said they were prepared to try to collect damages in the United States as well.
A confidential memo prepared by the Washington law firm Patton Boggs recently released under court order laid out the plaintiffs' strategy, which foresees using a European industrial espionage firm to investigate Chevron's assets around the world.
''The fact that Chevron has agreed to 'play ball' in Venezuela, while the company's peers have universally rejected the unfavorable contract terms imposed by the Chavez government, may portend difficulty there,'' said the memo, code-named ''Invictus.'' ''Nonetheless, the populist Chavez government remains a natural ally'' of the plaintiffs.
In the memo, lawyers also identified the Philippines, Singapore, Australia, Angola, Canada and several other countries where Chevron has significant assets as potential targets. In the Philippines, it even suggested using the services of Frank G. Wisner, the retired diplomat and a foreign affairs adviser for Patton Boggs, who recently waded into the crisis in Egypt as an envoy for the Obama administration.
Citing the Invictus memo, Judge Lewis Kaplan of the Southern District of New York argued that the plaintiffs were seeking to use a ''worldwide, full-court press'' to extract a settlement against a company of considerable importance in providing energy supplies to the United States economy.
Chevron said it did not intend to pay a dime. ''We intend to resist enforcement anywhere where the plaintiffs seek to take what we perceive to be a fraudulent judgment,'' said Kent Robertson, a Chevron spokesman.
Beyond the temporary protection issued by Judge Kaplan, Mr. Robertson noted a decision by a panel of international arbitrators in The Hague that granted the company a preliminary injunction that might also block enforcement of the judgment.
But Ecuadorean lawyers said they did not consider themselves under the jurisdiction of either the American court or the arbitrators.
Referring to the arbitration process, one of the lawyers, Pablo Fajardo, said, ''This is part of the Chevron legal strategy to delay and obstruct.''
Duncan Hollis, associate dean of the Temple University law school, said it was logical for the plaintiffs to take their battle to other countries in the region because ''there is some commonality in Latin American legal systems.'' But, Mr. Hollis added, ''there is no international law about how one court is supposed to enforce the judgments from another nation's court.''
For now, the case moves forward in the Ecuadorean courts. Three judges will hear appeals from both sides. The Amazon coalition intends to appeal the amount of the damages, while Chevron will appeal the entire ruling.
''I don't know if we will be broadcasting'' our legal argument, Mr. Robertson said. But he added: ''It is the illegitimate nature of the ruling. The scientific evidence demonstrates that this is a meritless outcome.''
The final appeal will go to a national appeals court, a process that could take months. Then the fight may move to several countries simultaneously. Advisers to the villagers and forest tribes said they hoped to extract Chevron money from many countries until they reach the final judgment total.
The ruling's impact is already being felt in Ecuador and beyond as a cautionary tale of the environmental and legal aftermath of oil exploration. Alberto Acosta, a former oil minister in Ecuador, called the ruling ''a historical precedent.''
It is ''a reminder that we have to defend ourselves from the irresponsible activity of extraction companies, both oil and mining,'' Mr. Acosta said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pablo Fajardo, the lead lawyer representing the Ecuadorean villagers at a news conference in the capital, Quito, on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOLORES OCHOA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DAMAGES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); MERGERS (74%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RAIN FORESTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (62%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%); PATTON BOGGS LLP (58%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ECUADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); PHILIPPINES (92%); EGYPT (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



435 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET WANTING, OBAMA CONCEDES

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama conceded on Tuesday that his new budget does not do enough to resolve the nation's long-term fiscal problems, but he counseled patience, suggesting that he would eventually come together with Republicans on a broad deal.
But, Mr. Obama said at a news conference, any such compromise to address Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and the tax system is months away and will first require an effort to build bipartisan trust -- even as Democrats and Republicans battle intensely over how much to cut from the current year's domestic spending.
The president spoke as Republicans on Capitol Hill accused him of a lack of leadership for not proposing a bolder budget for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. Yet behind the scenes are signs that both parties, for all their public crossfire, are reassessing the politics of deficits.
The debt crises last year in Greece and other European countries served as a warning about the economic perils of chronic budget imbalances, and the rise of the Tea Party movement reflected a broader concern among Americans about the nation's rapidly mounting debt. 
Now some Democrats and Republicans are re-examining whether the political risks of raising revenues and curbing the most popular social programs might be outweighed by the urgency of addressing the looming budget impact of an aging population and rapidly rising medical costs.
''The feeling to do genuine deficit reduction is greater on both sides of the aisle than I've ever seen it,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''The question is meeting in the middle and throwing away the ideological baggage.''
The White House has already opened back-channel conversations to test Republicans' willingness to negotiate about the soaring costs of Medicare and Medicaid, Social Security's long-range solvency and an income-tax code riddled with more than $1 trillion a year worth of loopholes and tax breaks.
The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, all but invited Mr. Obama on Tuesday to start huddling about the issues, and a bipartisan group of senators held a third meeting to write debt-reduction legislation based on the recommendations in December of the majority of a bipartisan fiscal commission established by the president.
''If you look at the history of how these deals get done, typically it's not because there's an 'Obama Plan' out there,'' Mr. Obama said, citing deal-making precedents under Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, and his own tax cuts deal with Congressional Republicans in December. ''It's because Democrats and Republicans are both committed to tackling this issue in a serious way.''
While no budget summit is imminent, Mr. Obama said he and Republican leaders are ''going to be in discussions over the next several months.'' He said moving forward required ''a spirit of cooperation between Democrats and Republicans. And I think that's possible.''
Yet it seems clear that the parties are not at that point, and the hurdles, in any case, are huge. The House began a bitter three-day debate about Republican leaders' proposals to slash far more deeply into domestic programs than Mr. Obama or Senate Republicans are willing to accept.
Both parties are simultaneously positioning themselves for the 2012 elections, and many people on both sides are reluctant to cede political talking points -- whether it is Democrats claiming Republicans want to privatize Social Security or Republicans insisting Democrats want only to raise taxes.
After much internal debate about the political risks, House Republican leaders announced that their own budget for fiscal year 2012, which begins Oct. 1, ''will lead where the president has failed and include real entitlement reforms'' in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.
But in the Senate, Mr. McConnell signaled a different approach. He indicated he is ready to negotiate now with Mr. Obama to curb entitlement program costs, which, along with military spending and interest on the national debt, are driving projections of unsustainable debt in coming decades.
''It doesn't have to be in public,'' he said. ''We all understand there are some limitations to negotiating significant agreements in public. But we're still waiting for the president to lead.''
Republicans have been especially critical of Mr. Obama because his budget did not propose the sort of comprehensive and specific changes supported by the majority on his own fiscal commission, including for entitlement programs and overhauling the tax code.
Mr. Obama, on the defensive at his news conference, said it was wrong to say the fiscal commission's majority report ''has been shelved'' and said ''it still provides a framework for a conversation'' between the parties.
But Mr. Obama also noted that while the commission majority was bipartisan, the dissenters included all three House Republican leaders who were members of the panel, including the new chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.
''He's got a little bit of juice when it comes to trying to get an eventual budget done,'' Mr. Obama said of Mr. Ryan. ''So,'' he added, ''I'm going to have to have a conversation with him -- what would he like to see happen?''
Mr. Ryan in past years has proposed a fiscal plan that in the long-term would privatize Social Security and Medicare and reduce income taxes. But he never got much support from wary Republican colleagues and acknowledged in an interview this week that, as budget chairman, he is not likely to press his own plan.
Administration officials, in December, generally interpreted the opposition of Mr. Ryan and his two House Republican colleagues on the fiscal commission as evidence that their new House majority would be unwilling to compromise this year on a comprehensive deal that included new revenues and cuts to military spending.
But a few in the White House said Mr. Obama could try to exploit the apparent breach between the House and Senate Republicans -- all three senators on the commission backed the majority plan.
Of the three Senate Republicans on the commission, two remain in office and both -- Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and Michael D. Crapo of Idaho -- have continued to work with several Senate Democrats on a plan based on the commission report.
Their group of six senators met for a third time on Tuesday morning, for two hours, to try to translate the recommendations into legislation. The group includes the organizers -- Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and Saxby Chambliss, a Republican of Georgia -- and four former commission members: Mr. Coburn and Mr. Crapo, and the Democratic Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.
''I think it's going to take a number more meetings,'' Mr. Crapo said afterward. ''We do have a number of differences. But I think that we are actually making progress.''
Mr. Crapo said 25 to 30 senators, from both parties, were on the sidelines waiting to see if the six could reach agreement. To that end, both he and Mr. Coburn expressed disappointment that Mr. Obama had not laid down more cards with his budget.
But Mr. Warner said: ''I think the president has taken the right first step and he has to let the Congressional process work. This is going to be a long process, and I know by the end of this debate the administration is going to be an active player.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, arriving for a news conference, said he and Republicans could reach a deal on long-term fiscal problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); MEDICARE (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); AGING (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); MEDICAID (71%); AGING TRENDS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



436 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Top Judge Resists Cuomo, Defending Courts' Budget

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
ALBANY -- New York's chief judge suggested on Tuesday that courts around the state might have to close if Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the Legislature insist on cuts to the judicial system that match the broad budget limits the governor is imposing on executive agencies.
By raising the specter of closed courts, the chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, at once upped the ante in what has been a relatively amiable confrontation with the governor over the court budget and laid out an ambitious agenda for what he described as an ''independent, accountable and co-equal branch of government.'' 
Early this month, Mr. Cuomo criticized the judiciary's $2.7 billion budget proposal for ''not participating'' in his efforts at sharp cuts, and he ''respectfully'' asked the courts to cut spending. The judicial budget, which is not under the control of the governor, included a $50 million increase over the previous year, but court officials said it was because of mandated increases in benefits, including pensions, for its work force of 16,700.
In his annual State of the Judiciary speech in the ornate courtroom of the Court of Appeals here, Judge Lippman said the courts were working to restrain costs. But he also drew a hard line on the requirements of the courts and several times repeated that the judiciary was a co-equal branch of government with its own responsibilities to New Yorkers.
The maneuver is a familiar one in Albany, intended to persuade the Legislature to view potential cuts as draconian attacks on basic services. Judge Lippman described the courts as already operating at the edge financially and argued that they handled cases that were often a result of hard economic times, like foreclosures, evictions and family violence cases.
''We do not have the option of picking and choosing which cases we hear,'' he said, ''of turning people away, or of turning a deaf ear to those who come to the courthouse doors seeking justice.''
The speech was filled with new proposals, some of which will carry a price. Among other things, Judge Lippman announced a new rule to prohibit judges from hearing cases involving contributors to their political campaigns and a pilot program to provide lawyers to poor people in foreclosure cases.
He repeated his commitment to a $25 million increase in state financing for lawyers to the poor in civil cases, which had been included in the judiciary's budget request.
He said he planned to encourage a state commission created last year to grant an ''appropriate salary increase'' for the state's 1,300 judges, who have gone 13 years without a raise.
And he unveiled recommendations from a commission he appointed in 2009 to search for ways to prevent wrongful convictions. Several of those proposals are likely to be controversial, including one that would sharply expand the crimes for which the state requires DNA samples from convicted defendants.
New York has been collecting DNA samples from convicted defendants since 1996, gradually increasing the number of crimes that are affected. Under Judge Lippman's proposal, the state would also collect DNA samples from people convicted of a long list of additional misdemeanors, including harassment and criminal purchase of a weapon.
He said that adding thousands of additional DNA samples would help avoid wrongful convictions by ''directing criminal investigations toward actual perpetrators'' and increasing the opportunity for those wrongfully convicted to prove their innocence. But proposals to increase DNA collection often draw criticism from civil liberties groups that see such programs as attacks on privacy.
Judge Lippman also endorsed a recommendation that investigators who present crime victims with photographs to identify perpetrators not know which of the choices is the suspect. For years there have been indications that investigators may give cues to crime victims about which photograph to choose.
The initiative that drew the most attention was the plan to require court officials to bar judges from hearing cases involving political contributors. With 73 percent of the state's judges elected, Judge Lippman said, it was time for the courts ''to foreclose even the appearance of impropriety'' by stopping judges from hearing cases involving lawyers and others who donate $2,500 or more to their political campaigns over a two year period.
The new rule, approved by the five-judge Administrative Board of the Courts this month, is to take effect in 60 days after a period for public comment.
In remarks to reporters after his speech, Judge Lippman said that the public's comments could influence details of the planned rule. But he indicated that there would be no change in the central idea of a ban on judges hearing cases of their political donors, saying ''this is a rule that's going to go into effect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Lippman, the chief judge of New York State, at his annual State of the Judiciary speech on Tuesday in Albany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); POLITICS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); LABOR FORCE (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); FAMILY (63%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); JONATHAN J JUDGE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011



437 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Big Budget Cuts Add Up to Rage in Wisconsin

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Monica Davey reported from Madison, and Steven Greenhouse from New York.

 BODY:
MADISON, Wis. -- As four game wardens awkwardly stood guard, protesters, scores deep, crushed into a corridor leading to the governor's office here on Wednesday, their screams echoing through the Capitol: ''Come out, come out, wherever you are!''
Behind closed doors, Scott Walker, the Republican who has been governor for about six weeks, calmly described his intent to forge ahead with the plans that had set off the uprising: He wants to require public workers to pay more for their health insurance and pensions, effectively cutting the take-home pay of many by around 7 percent. 
He also wants to weaken most public-sector unions by sharply curtailing their collective bargaining rights, limiting talks to the subject of basic wages.
Mr. Walker said he had no other options, since he is facing a deficit of $137 million in the current state budget and the prospect of a $3.6 billion hole in the coming two-year budget.
''For us, it's simple,'' said Mr. Walker, whose family home was surrounded by angry workers this week, prompting the police to close the street. ''We're broke.''
For months, state and local officials around the country have tackled their budget problems by finding trims here and there, apologetically resorting to layoffs, and searching for accounting moves to limp through one more year.
Events in Wisconsin this week, though, are a sign of something new: No more apologies, no half-measures. Given the dire straits of budgets around the country, other state leaders may take similarly drastic steps with state workers, pensions and unions.
''I'm sure we're going to hear more from other states where Republican governors are trying to heap the entire burden of the financial crisis on public employees and public employees' unions,'' said William B. Gould IV, a labor law professor at Stanford University and a former chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
''I think it's quite possible that if they're successful in doing this, a lot of other Republican governors will emulate this,'' Mr. Gould added.
Here, in a state with a long history of powerful unions, Mr. Walker's plan was upending life in the capital city.
Madison schools were closed on Wednesday after many employees called in sick to help lobby. Thousands of teachers, state workers and students filled a square around the Capitol, chanting ''kill the bill'' and waving signs (some likening Mr. Walker to a dictator and demanding his recall).
And a hearing on the issue that had started at 10 a.m. Tuesday ran through the night and into Wednesday afternoon, as protesters with sleeping bags camped out near the Capitol's rotunda and bleary-eyed lawmakers gulped coffee from paper cups.
Protesters shared stories of their families' deep history in unions, people struggling to pay their mortgages, workers considering moving away, switching careers, retiring.
Kim Hoffman, a middle school music teacher, said she and her husband, also a teacher, would lose $1,200 a month under the plan -- too deep a cut to manage.
''I love teaching, but I'd have to start looking for another job, period,'' she said.
While union leaders here set up makeshift offices in the Capitol, distributing fliers and planning vigils and ''teach-outs,'' national officials from more than a dozen unions pledged millions of dollars, as well as phone banks and volunteers, to block such efforts in Wisconsin and elsewhere.
''We view the events in Wisconsin as one of the worst attacks on workers' rights and their voices in the workplace that we've ever seen,'' said Kim Anderson, director of government relations for the National Education Association in Washington, where 150 people were calling teachers and union supporters in Wisconsin, urging them to demonstrate or call lawmakers.
Kevin Gibbons, a leader of a union here representing teaching assistants at the University of Wisconsin, said, ''I think Governor Walker is using this financial crisis as an excuse to attack unions, and if Wisconsin goes, what will be next?''
Already, tensions were rising in other states, particularly in places where Republican victories in November have altered the political landscape.
Earlier this week, in Ohio, workers protested outside the Statehouse in Columbus to protest a bill that would limit collective bargaining for state employees there. In Indianapolis, teachers rallied against a bill that would limit contract bargaining for teachers' unions. In Tennessee, a legislative committee was considering a similar bill.
For his part, Mr. Walker said he did not believe that most Wisconsin residents had a problem with his proposals. In a tour on Tuesday around the state -- to private companies -- Mr. Walker said he spoke with plenty of private employees who told of paying far more for their retirement plans and health care than state workers.
Mr. Walker would require state employees to contribute 5.8 percent of their pay to their pensions, where most now pay far less, and require state employees to pay at least 12.6 percent of health care premiums (most pay about 6 percent now). The average salary for a Wisconsin state worker is $48,348, according to a recent report by the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute in Washington.
Some national polls, too, have suggested that many people would back cuts to pensions and benefits of government workers.
''To the average citizen -- to middle class, working class families -- they're paying a whole lot more right now,'' Mr. Walker said. As recently as Wednesday morning, Mr. Walker spoke with Gov. John Kasich of Ohio -- to ''commiserate'' a bit, he said.
''Obviously there is a lot of protest out there, but in the end, it's the right thing to do,'' Mr. Walker said, adding, ''We didn't get elected to worry about the politics.''
Lawmakers here were expected to vote on the issue by week's end. Into the evening on Wednesday, there was talk that lawmakers might amend the plan, perhaps to restore some union bargaining rights.
But many predicted that the outlines of Mr. Walker's proposal might survive votes in the Assembly and Senate, both of which are controlled by Republicans.
Still, some lawmakers here appeared rattled by the crowds cramming the building.
Scott Fitzgerald, the Republican leader in the State Senate, slipped out of the Capitol Wednesday morning with his sunglasses on, head down. Protesters had gone to his home earlier in the week, forcing his family (including his wife, a school guidance counselor) to go elsewhere for a bit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angry public workers, facing cuts, crowded into the Capitol on Wednesday in Madison, Wis. (A1)
 Protesters filled Capitol Square on Wednesday in Madison, Wis., responding to a proposal by Gov. Scott Walker, top right, to require public workers to pay more for their health insurance and pensions and to curtail their collective bargaining rights. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); LOBBYING (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (94%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



438 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Going Against the Grain, a College Plans to Cut Tuition

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
For those who wonder how college tuition costs manage to keep rising year after year, apparently defying laws of economic gravity, Sewanee, a liberal arts college in Tennessee, has an answer: they can't.
On Wednesday, Sewanee announced that it will cut its $46,000 annual bill for students by 10 percent in the fall.
The college, formally Sewanee: The University of the South, is betting that the drop in tuition -- which at this point it can afford -- will help it compete on two fronts: with the public universities that are siphoning off a growing share of the students it accepts, and with other private colleges where tuition is likely to increase by 4 to 5 percent this year, as it has for the last two years. 
''The university has made a bold and perhaps risky move,'' said John M. McCardell Jr., who became vice chancellor of Sewanee a year ago. ''But given the realities of higher education in the current economy, we believe that some college or university needed to step up and say, 'Enough.' ''
Sewanee's move has not been tried by any other institution in the top tier of U.S. News and World Report's liberal-arts college rankings. And according to the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, no college has reduced its tuition this year, and only about a dozen colleges have frozen it.
''Sewanee's stepping up and out of the box, and it will create some reverberating effects,'' said David L. Warren, president of the association. It is a sign of the times -- a move prompted not only by the recession, but also by the degree to which small private colleges now compete with large public universities, whose tuition has been rising quickly because money from strapped state governments is declining.
Increasingly, Mr. Warren said, private colleges are competing with the flagship universities in their region. California Lutheran University allows incoming students who have been admitted to some University of California campuses to enroll for the same price they would pay at the public university. Other colleges seek to entice desirable candidates by offering them a similar deal.
Something of that sort was on Mr. McCardell's mind as well. In the past two years, in head-to-head competitions for students, Sewanee lost 46 to the University of Georgia, 39 to the University of Tennessee, 37 to the University of Virginia and 28 to the University of North Carolina.
The new tuition would put Sewanee within striking distance of the out-of-state tuition at Georgia ($27,000 this year, without room and board, and probably substantially more next year).
Mr. McCardell, the former president of Middlebury College in Vermont, emphasizes that Sewanee is by no means in dire straits, and the pressures and challenges it faces are much the same as those that many -- probably most -- other small liberal arts colleges are encountering.
Like most, Sewanee has a declining number of students paying full tuition, and a rising number who pay a discounted rate. Nearly 3 out of every 4 students received some financial aid, including loans. The applicant pool is growing, as students submit applications to more colleges -- but the percentage of admitted students who choose to enroll at Sewanee is shrinking, and, at just under 24 percent, is at its lowest level of the past decade.
''The trends are discouraging, and what we definitely don't want to do is move, however slowly, in the direction of dying,'' Mr. McCardell said.
The price cut at Sewanee will mean that, over the next three years, about $6 million to $8 million less will flow into the college's coffers. That means Sewanee may have to draw more heavily on its $315 million endowment for a few years.
But Mr. McCardell, in a memo to the board of regents broaching the idea of cutting tuition, suggested that other considerations were paramount.
The memo read, in part: ''If we believe this is the right thing to do; if we believe it will benefit the university in significant, even fundamental, ways; if we believe in the quality of our product; if we believe that all we need to do is bring Sewanee to the attention of a wider audience; and if we believe that there is a value, however computed, to boldness and leadership, then we will figure out how to cover the shortfall.''
Sewanee's approach goes against the grain. Of the 19 colleges that have cut tuition since 1996, most have been little-known institutions with serious problems. More common have been decisions to increase tuition and fees sharply, in search of what is widely known as the Chivas Regal effect -- the perception that high price equals high quality.
And that has sometimes been a boon to colleges. After Hendrix College in Arkansas raised its tuition and fees 29 percent in 2004, for example, its freshman class grew by 37 percent.
Mr. McCardell, though, is not sure that would work in the current economic environment.
''When you look at those things, you have to remember that that was then and this is now,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sewanee's quad, above. The vice chancellor, John M. McCardell Jr., said the college ''needed to step up and say, 'Enough.''' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DON HAMERMAN, COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH
 TAD MERRICK, COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RANKINGS (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



439 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on Strong Earnings Reports

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Strong earnings results and another round of corporate deals pushed stocks higher on Wednesday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has now doubled from the intraday low set during the 2008 financial crisis. 
Family Dollar Stores, the discount retailer, rose 21.13 percent, to $53.25, after the firm, run by the investor Nelson W. Peltz, offered to pay up to $60 a share to take it private. That was a 36 percent premium from Tuesday's closing price. Family Dollar gained the most of any stock in the S. & P. 500 index.
Genzyme, the biotechnology company, rose 1.07 percent after the French drug maker Sanofi-Aventisagreed to buy it for more than $20 billion in cash. The deal ended months of haggling between the companies.
Dell climbed 11.86 percent a day after it raised its full-year revenue forecast, a sign that businesses are spending more on technology.
Abercrombie & Fitch, the teenage clothing retailer, rose 7.58 percent after reporting that its fourth-quarter net income nearly doubled on strong sales overseas and better results in the United States.
Comcast also reported earnings that surpassed analysts' expectations. Its stock increased 4.01 percent after more customers signed up for a combination of TV, high-speed Internet access and digital phone services.
The equipment maker Deere rose 2.39 percent after it said its net income more than doubled, helped by growing sales of large farm machinery in the United States and Canada.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 61.53 points, or 0.50 percent, to end at 12,288.17, its highest close since June 13, 2008.
The S.& P. 500 finished up 8.31 points, or 0.63 percent, at 1,336.32. That was double its intraday low of 666.79, reached on March 6, 2008, at the height of the financial crisis.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.21 points, or 0.76 percent, to 2,825.56.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 4/32, to 100 1/32, and the yield rose to 3.62 percent from 3.60 percent late Tuesday.
The Commerce Department reported that new home construction rose in January by the largest amount in 20 months. The pace of construction is still below levels seen in a healthy economy, but analysts were optimistic about the report.
''Housing is slowly showing some signs of life here,'' said Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
The Labor Department also reported that wholesale prices rose sharply in January as a result of higher costs for gas and other goods.
Oil prices increased after Israel's foreign minister said that Iran would send two warships through the Suez Canal on the way to Syria. Benchmark oil for March delivery rose 67 cents to settle at $84.99 a barrel.
The Federal Reserve reported separately that for the fifth straight month factories produced more goods in January, although overall industrial production fell. The Fed also released minutes from its policy meeting last month showing that Fed officials unanimously concluded that inflation was not yet a problem. They also raised their forecast for economic growth this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A more optimistic outlook from the Fed and news of several takeovers helped push stocks higher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); SANOFI SA (70%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (58%); GENZYME CORP (57%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); SNY (NYSE) (70%); SANF (BIT) (70%); SAN (PAR) (70%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (70%); FDO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%); SYRIA (75%); ISRAEL (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



440 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Tech Start-Up Tries to Fly Without Venture Capital

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Last April, Jared Cosulich and Adam Abrons founded Irrational Design, a technology company, in San Francisco. Since its debut, the start-up has introduced three online commercial products. The founders, who met while working at a software engineering company, Pivotal Labs, are determined to build a business that is free to take risks.
THE CHALLENGE To start a technology company without seeking or taking venture capital financing.
THE BACKGROUND Mr. Cosulich and Mr. Abrons both have software engineering backgrounds and experience working on venture-backed start-ups. Previously Mr. Cosulich, 30, founded CommunityWalk, a Web site that allows users to create interactive maps. Mr. Abrons, 39, is the former chief technology officer of an information technology consulting firm, ThoughtWorks. The two founded Irrational Design with the shared goal of building an agile, bootstrapped company that would be free to experiment. Mr. Cosulich said it was harder for an entrepreneur to ''try crazy things'' when investors were involved. ''They prefer that you double down on what's working,'' said Mr. Abrons. 
THE OPTIONS From the beginning, the founders were determined to try bootstrapping. Mr. Cosulich said he might have been tempted to take venture capital had the ''right'' investors come along -- ''but more and more I'm not sure the 'right' investors exist.'' Although he had a good relationship with his CommunityWalk investors, he said he came to believe that founders and investors were rarely motivated by common goals.
Mr. Abrons reached a similar conclusion after his experience with ThoughtWorks. He said the company's investors had unrealistic expectations that led to litigation after the technology bubble burst in 2000. ''It was a lose-lose situation,'' he said. For Mr. Abrons, who noted that Irrational Design had low overhead costs, the question became, ''Why take money from investors?''
THE DECISION Irrational Design has stuck with its plan to bootstrap, releasing a series of experimental products with the hope that at least one will catch on and begin generating the revenue needed to build the company. ''Without V.C. funding, we've been forced to launch products before they're ready as we can't afford to push a product too far without getting customer validation,'' said Mr. Cosulich, who acknowledged that rough edges abound on Irrational Design's offerings, none of which are producing revenue yet. (Mr. Cosulich and Mr. Abrons pay the bills with software engineering consulting work.) And marketing is limited. The total monthly advertising budget of about $500 goes exclusively to the search engine StumbleUpon.
The Matching Game, the company's first product, had its debut last April. It's a dating Web site that also allows users to play matchmaker by commenting on the likely compatibility of people based on their submitted photos. The co-founders say almost 100,000 people have played the site's game, and 3,191 have posted photos and profiles that enable them to be matched with other users. Once the site builds a community, Irrational Design expects to generate revenue through advertising. But it's not there yet. Until June, there was no way for users to meet one another through the site, a situation that resulted in confused e-mails from would-be daters asking how they could contact their matches. The founders replied that they couldn't. ''But we went out of our way to help by manually connecting them,'' said Mr. Cosulich.
In November, Irrational Design introduced Insightster, an application that functions as an online suggestion box that businesses can use to share, organize, rate and promote ideas internally without having to call meetings. It is distributed free of charge through the Google Apps Marketplace, which lets users rate and review applications. Recently, a total of five Insightster reviews, all of them positive, were listed. While Insightster's competition includes Kindling and Intuit Brainstorm, Mr. Cosulich said his product was distinguished by its simplicity.
Irrational Design is not currently charging Insightster's users, but that is the ultimate goal. While Insightster's future pricing model has not been determined, the company will probably charge for storing attachments and for security. There will continue to be a free model as well. Mr. Cosulich said 560 companies were using the site, which he described as ''incomplete, but effective,'' and that a handful more signed up daily.
Secret Goals, the third product, was introduced in December. Mr. Cosulich said that this message board, which allows users to share and work toward their goals anonymously, recently had 176 users. The concept, he said, grew from the Alcoholics Anonymous model. ''Sharing your thoughts and feelings as you work to achieve your goals without fear of judgment is something that A.A. has successfully supported for a long time,'' he said. Though it is too early to tell whether users are achieving their objectives, Irrational Design is betting that they will benefit from a tool that allows them to reflect on their goals without worrying about what others think. While similar ideas exist, Mr. Cosulich said Secret Goals, which requires no user profiles or other identifying information, lets users operate more anonymously.
The founders are scrambling to capitalize on demonstrated interest by building out the site, which they admit is limited. For example, Secret Goals arrived with just one feature. Users could only post their current feelings about their goals. Soon after, they were able to send anonymous messages of support or congratulations to other users. Secret Goals expects to generate revenue through advertising, which might focus on goals like losing weight or learning to play the guitar.
The partners have ideas for 20 to 30 more products, but have concluded that they must focus on their current offerings until they succeed -- or fail. They recognize that if multiple products show promise simultaneously, they will not have the resources to pursue all equally. ''We are creating helter-skelter experiences and being pulled in 10 different directions,'' said Mr. Cosulich.
He acknowledged that Irrational Designs' products might benefit from investor scrutiny, but he is also convinced that he and his partner bring something more valuable: a fresh, experimental perspective that could help Irrational Design become a trusted brand. ''When you have V.C. money, you have to impress people who are not necessarily your customers,'' he said.
Ultimately, the founders hope that exceptional results will make Irrational Design even more profitable than a venture-backed start-up. ''It's not that I don't want to make money,'' said Mr. Cosulich, ''but I have a longer time frame for building a company.''
WHAT OTHER OWNERS SAY Elizabeth Charnock, chief executive of Cataphora, a software maker that also chose to bootstrap: ''When we started Cataphora, an adviser said that, as a bootstrapper, I had to understand that a V.C. would ultimately give someone $20 million to compete with us, which buys an awful lot of market advantage. Irrational Design's strategy of deploying a few simple applications to see what will gain traction may be risky.''
Nichole Goodyear, chief executive of Brickfish, an online marketing platform: ''The challenge with bootstrapping by consulting is that somewhere another team is spending 100 percent of their time on a competing product and benefiting from an experienced board. Instead of $500 a month toward marketing efforts, they're spending tens of thousands.''
Guy Hirsch, chief executive of SayHired, a job-candidate screening service: ''From personal experience, bootstrapping forces you to become risk-averse to whatever doesn't help you prove a core business hypothesis. That's great at the pre-seed stages but leaves you almost no room for error down the road.''
THE RESULTS You can offer your own thoughts on Irrational Design's decisions on the You're the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and in this space, we will tell you how the company is doing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jared Cosulich, left, and Adam Abrons run Irrational Design, a technology company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); LITIGATION (63%); EXECUTIVES (54%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



441 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Barring Smokers From the Workplace

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Hospitals Shift Smoking Bans to Smoker Ban'' (front page, Feb. 11), about employers who refuse to hire smokers, used the word ''addiction'' only once.
In most cases, smoking isn't a lifestyle choice but a serious, hard-to-kick physical dependency, for which there's no reliable treatment. I smoked for 11 years -- from ages 12 to 23. Quitting took multiple tries and was one of the most difficult things I've ever done.
Is it fair to discriminate in hiring against someone who has a legal addiction? 
Sandra Wilde New York, Feb. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article quotes the president of National Workrights Institute as saying that there is ''nothing unique about smoking'' to warrant the barring of smokers from employment at hospitals.
As a physician, I can attest that this is not the case. First, a significant amount of productivity is lost by workers who must sneak away from the hospital every two hours to placate their addictions.
Second, some workers flout the rules and smoke right outside doors through which patients must walk. This practice is bad for the health of many patients, especially those with pulmonary issues. And given that each worker is a representative of the hospital for which he or she works, some could view this practice as frank disrespect by the hospital of patients' health.
Finally, it sends an implicit message that if those in health care are smoking right outside their own institutional pillars, smoking is not that bad after all.
David Silverstein Stony Brook, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
The policy of firing or not hiring smokers is justified by some employers by the added health care costs; your article cites the federal estimate that ''employees who smoke cost, on average, $3,391 more a year each for health care and lost productivity.''
Without granting that premise, I call your attention to your own article, ''Diabetics in the Workplace Confront a Tangle of Law'' (Dec. 26, 2006), in which you state that $13,243 is the estimated yearly medical costs for a diabetic, ''more than five times that of workers without diabetes.'' You add that ''if absenteeism and productivity losses are added, diabetes ranks third as an economic cost to employers, after heart disease and hypertension.''
If dollars, not ability, are the hiring criterion, shouldn't hospitals first refuse to hire diabetics and anyone with heart disease or hypertension, no matter how qualified?
It would seem that if the money excuse is gone, the smoker bans are starkly revealed for what they are: blatant, and highly irrational, discrimination.
Linda Stewart New York, Feb. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
I am not a smoker; nor do I enjoy trying to make my way into the entrance of a building that is surrounded by smokers. I do, however, believe that denying an individual's employment application based on his or her status as a smoker should not be legal.
Hospitals that are conditioning employment based on a person's smoking status argue (and rightly so) that smokers increase the cost of insurance for the rest of the population. But asking people what they lawfully do outside of the office should not be allowed.
What if hospitals question if employees count their calories or engage in unprotected sex? Barring smokers is the camel's nose under the tent.
Eshai J. Gorshein Brookline, Mass., Feb. 11, 2011
To the Editor:
As the commissioner for public health for Cincinnati some 35 years ago, I cautioned against using public health policy in a way that limits individual choice. The controversies at the time included requiring the wearing of seat belts and motorcycle helmets and the forced fluoridation of water, measures that I supported from a public health perspective but that clearly limit choice and freedom.
Now employers are discriminating against employees who choose to smoke tobacco. Although one can argue that all behavior outside work may potentially affect costs to the employer and the health of employees, the slippery slope of these employers' demands will have a significant effect on our freedom.
Are we now to allow businesses to inspect the homes and activities of their employees to assure that they all practice good, healthy habits? Will that include assuring that their children do not use skateboards without helmets, do not eat fast food and so on?
Allowing hospitals and other employers to control their employees' activities outside of work is public health tyranny. It must be curtailed, if not by legislation, then by the courts.
Arnold Leff Boulder Creek, Calif., Feb. 15, 2011
The writer is a doctor.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKEY BURTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); DIABETES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEART DISEASE (87%); HYPERTENSION (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



442 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: As the Mainland Shivers, Hawaii Basks in Tourism's Glow

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
HONOLULU -- One recent afternoon, as the temperature in their native Nashville dipped to a slim 7 degrees, Blythe Grant and Jordan Tlumak walked along the beach at Waikiki with beers in hand and smiles on their faces.
''We just left three inches of snow in Nashville,'' said Mr. Grant, 26 and buff. ''I was pretty pumped to get on the plane.'' Mr. Tlumak, his friend, nodded. ''Nashville just doesn't know how to handle that.''
Mr. Grant and Mr. Tlumak are not the only mainlanders to be gloating about their good luck. Hawaiian tourism officials, hotel operators and travel agents -- battered by several years of slumping sales -- have recently seen a marked increase in arrivals to the islands. And while there are various theories as to why -- including favorable currency exchange rates attracting foreign visitors, and Obama on the beach -- what most people can agree on is that the rotten weather in much of the rest of the country, including a series of brutal snowstorms in the Midwest and on the East Coast, has been good news in Hawaii. 
''We talk to these people every day, and they're miserable,'' said Amy Terada, the vice president of marketing for Pleasant Holidays, a tour operator in Westlake Village, Calif. ''They're saying, 'Just get me out of here.' ''
According to the Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau, domestic air passenger arrivals to the islands jumped more than 10 percent in January compared with the year before. Those numbers were even more striking the week starting Jan. 24, when an epic blizzard prepared to bear down on the Midwest and arrivals jumped 15.6 percent compared with the same period in 2010.
And while bad weather has always meant good sales in warm-weather climes, this year's uptick was sorely needed in Hawaii. The state's tourism trade has been battered by the recession, the discontinuation of flights by two beleaguered airlines and a somewhat vague sense that luxury travel -- for business or pleasure -- was gauche in a time of national economic pain.
''There were comments coming out of Washington, saying, 'If you're getting bailout money, you better not be headed to Hawaii,' '' said David P. Carey, president and chief executive of Outrigger Enterprises, which operates a chain of hotels in Hawaii.
But that guilt seems to be easing, said Jerome Agrusa, a professor of travel industry management at Hawaii Pacific University. ''People are tired of feeling bad,'' he said, ''and have decided to enjoy life.''
David Uchiyama, the vice president of brand management for the Hawaii Tourism Authority, a state agency, said officials had worked hard to improve air access to the state, particularly after ATA and Aloha Air -- both of which flew to Honolulu -- folded within days of each other in 2008. Those failures cost the state thousands of incoming passengers a week, he said, though several other airlines have increased or initiated service.
Hawaii has also been helped by security troubles in other warm destinations, like drug-ravaged Mexico, Mr. Uchiyama said, and the strength of some foreign currencies against the dollar, including the Japanese yen.
But there is no doubt that the chill in the mainland has helped, too. Jon Conching, the vice president for sales and marketing for Hilton Hawaii, which operates four properties in the state, says bad weather in big Western cities was particularly good for business, when Hawaii is only a nonstop flight away. ''It helps when Denver is snowed in, and San Francisco is cold,'' Mr. Conching said. ''I've even got friends in Las Vegas complaining. But us here in Hawaii are saying, 'Bring it on.' ''
Paul Kocin, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said that it was not clear yet if this winter would be a record-breaker but that big events, like the white-out conditions in Chicago in a recent blizzard and snow in the Deep South around Christmas, had contributed to the impression that it is a winter for the ages.
''From December through January through the beginning of February,'' Mr. Kocin said, ''there's just been a lot of action.''
Hawaii, meanwhile, had highs in the 80s last weekend with sunny skies in the south and rain in the mountains. (It was, of course, warm rain.)
Despite increases in arrivals, tourism industry professionals say that Hawaii has a ways to go before it can fully recover from a precipitous drop in business that began in 2008. ''We took a huge nose dive,'' said Joseph Toy, president and chief executive of Hospitality Advisors, a hotel consulting firm. ''And 2009 was just abysmal.'' Occupancy rates have been climbing, Mr. Toy said, but nightly hotel rates are still lower than he would like.
That said, several tourism officials reeled off a spate of positive publicity for the islands, including the return of ''Hawaii Five-0,'' the sun-and-surf police drama CBS revived last year. Mr. Toy also cited the Pro Bowl, the National Football League's all-star game, which scored its highest ratings in more than a decade. ''We had people holding up signs saying, 'Honolulu, 86 degrees, Pittsburgh, minus 20,' '' Mr. Toy said.
And then there is the Obama effect. ''You see him lounging, eating ice cream in a polo shirt,'' said Mr. Carey, of the Outrigger chain, referring to the president's annual vacation to his home state.
And while Mr. Carey said more and more visitors were booking late -- something that rattles nerves in the hotel industry -- it also lends itself to last-minute bookings by snow-battered Midwesterners.
Greg Herr, 41, and Martha Gamboa, 43, of Chicago, fit that bill. They had booked a trip to Hawaii in early January, just as the city girded for another harsh winter. While Mr. Herr, a financial analyst, had a collection of photos from the recent blizzard on his cellphone, last week he was enjoying Waikiki's sandy beach, which was packed shoulder-to-sunburned-shoulder. He said he kept getting text messages from friends telling him how cold it was in Chicago, something Ms. Gamboa said he should ignore.
''We just wanted to get away from it all,'' she said. ''And after that last storm, we were like, Thank God we planned this.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tourists have been flocking to Hawaii, including Waikiki Beach last weekend. People in Chicago and New York, meanwhile, were thrilled to see the thermometer hit 40. (A16)
 Matsumoto Grocery Store patrons sampling cool treats Saturday in Haleiwa. Hawaii has had an increase in visitors this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENT NISHIMURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); BEACHES (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); AIRLINES (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TRAVEL AGENTS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); TOUR OPERATORS (69%); CURRENCIES (68%); BRANDING (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EXCHANGE RATES (53%)

COMPANY: OUTRIGGER ENTERPRISES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



443 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Phones Try To Stand Out In a Crowd

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
BARCELONA, Spain -- It is the modern phone maker's quandary. In the touch-screen era, how do you stand out from the crowd when most phones are near-identical glassy rectangles?
To get some attention, hardware makers are being forced to find new ways to appeal to buyers who are less interested in particulars like processor speeds than in what applications the devices can run, and how easily they can access their e-mail and Facebook on it.
''At the end of the day, there's only so much you can do with a piece of glass,'' said Chris Jones, an analyst with the research firm Canalys. ''Software can make or break a phone.'' 
At the Mobile World Congress here this week, some phone makers are responding by introducing devices with a twist, hoping that they can grab a buyer's eye with a unique feature like 3-D capabilities.
Others, like HTC, are buying or investing in gaming and entertainment companies whose services they can pipe into their mobile devices.
When it comes to applications, the iPhone still has the biggest selection. But phone makers seeking a strong rival to Apple's healthy app economy have turned to Android, the mobile operating system created by Google that is the core software for devices from dozens of manufacturers.
Andy Rubin, one of the chief architects and engineers behind Android at Google, said Android provided the ''basic tools'' to allow phone makers to create new models faster, since they did not have to worry about the phone's software.
''They can just focus on innovating a better design,'' he said. ''They don't have to worry about adding multitasking and managing memory.''
But the rush to embrace Android means that a touch screen phone running the software can easily look like just one of many similar phones.
''Android starts as a base,'' said Steve Walker, an executive vice president at Sony Ericsson. Phone makers, he said, ''still have to build something on top.'' Sony Ericsson's answer is the Xperia Play, an Android smartphone with a slide-out set of controller buttons, reminiscent of Sony's PlayStation Portable gaming device. The phone is intended to allow users to play games that are too complex for touch-screen controls.
Sony Ericsson also showed off three other phones in the Xperia line, incorporating cameras and other technologies from Sony's half of the partnership with Ericsson of Sweden. The company hopes the devices will help it make headway in the United States, where Sony's brand brings to mind digital cameras, TVs and music players -- not necessarily phones.
''In the past we've had trouble getting our devices into the U.S. market,'' Mr. Walker said.
During the weeklong conference here, several other major phone makers have introduced devices with one quirk or another. LG of South Korea, for example, introduced a smartphone with a screen capable of showing 3-D content that does not require any special eyewear.
INQ, a smaller phone maker based in Britain, is hoping to appeal to social networking addicts with a line of Android-based devices that prominently feature Facebook. The home screens of the phones display updates from the owner's Facebook news feed, including images and videos, and provide easy access to chat and check-in functions.
HTC, the Taiwanese hardware manufacturer, is also trying to take a crack at the social networking craze. On Tuesday the company showed two phones, the ChaCha and the Salsa, that include a separate button on the front to quickly access Facebook.
At the show, HTC revealed its first tablet, a svelte device called the Flyer, that comes with a stylus and is outfitted with new software offerings. The Flyer has a movie streaming and downloading application called HTC Watch, as well as access to OnLive, an online service that lets people play elaborate games without buying specialized hardware.
Perhaps the biggest indicator of the challenges facing phone makers is the recent announcement that Nokia has formed an alliance with Microsoft to use its Windows Phone 7 software in its line of mobile devices, moving away from its own home-grown software.
''The world is shifting from a battle of devices to a war of ecosystems,'' said Stephen Elop, the new chief executive of Nokia who is charged with spearheading the company's turnaround, in a press event here. ''Nokia brings hardware and incredible industrial design, and Microsoft has the software.''
Nokia, which helped shape the modern cellphone market, has sunk millions into adapting its handset business to the rapidly evolving industry. Many in the industry view the alliance as an acknowledgment that for companies like Nokia, it is no longer enough to build the sleekest new devices.
''They also have to build a content portfolio, know how to attract developers and help them make money,'' said Al Hilwa, an analyst who follows the wireless industry for the research firm IDC. ''Not many companies already have that skill set.''
The pressures, analysts say, will only increase as smartphones continue their spread.
Last year, according to the research firm Gartner, global sales of smartphones surged 72 percent compared to sales in 2009. Analysts anticipate that as soon as this year, mobile phones and tablets will eclipse desktop and laptop computers as the primary way people access the Internet.
''It's a very disruptive time,'' Mr. Hilwa said. ''Both software and hardware companies are going back to the drawing board and rethinking their business plans.''
And once they figure out how to make their phones less generic, hardware makers will have to tackle the same problem with tablets.
''We're seeing a lack of innovation around the design of tablets,'' said Mr. Jones of Canalys. ''That's a bigger piece of glass, a bigger black slab to try and differentiate for consumers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Wang, of HTC, held phones with Facebook buttons at the Mobile World Congress this week in Spain. At left, the Sony Ericsson Experia phone for gamers
bottom left, the LG Optimus 3-D phone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENIS DOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
MANU FERNANDEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSEP LAGO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (84%); APPLE INC (84%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (84%); ERIC.A (STO) (84%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (73%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (73%) SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



444 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Fed Raises Its Forecast For Growth

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve disclosed on Wednesday that policy makers had substantially upgraded their forecasts for how much the economy will grow this year, though they expect unemployment to remain painfully high for some time.
Top Fed officials now expect the output of goods and services to grow by 3.4 to 3.9 percent this year, up from the previous forecast, released in November, of 3 to 3.6 percent. But their grim outlook for the job market was largely unchanged: 8.8 to 9 percent unemployment this year, only one-tenth of a percentage point lower than its November forecast.
If the Fed's most optimistic forecast were realized, it would be the fastest annual growth since 2004, when the economy expanded by 3.6 percent. But experts say even that rate of growth would only bring unemployment, now at 9 percent, down slowly -- to slightly less than 8 percent by the end of 2012, when President Obama will seek re-election. 
The forecasts did not change the view that the Fed should continue the $600 billion program to stimulate the recovery by buying government securities, a step begun in November and scheduled to run through June. The Fed said it based its expectations on an improvement in consumer spending in the fourth quarter, though Fed officials were uncertain how long that would last, according to minutes of the Fed's last policy meeting in late January, released on Wednesday.
''On the one hand, the additional spending could reflect pent-up demand following the downturn, or greater confidence on the part of households about the future, in which case it might be expected to continue,'' the minutes noted. ''On the other hand, the additional spending could prove short-lived, given that a good portion of it appeared to have occurred in relatively volatile categories such as autos.''
At the January meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's main policy arm, voted unanimously to continue the $600 billion Treasury purchase plan, the second round of a strategy that is intended to push down long-term interest rates to ease credit and spur growth. The strategy, known as quantitative easing, has been controversial -- critics say it could set the stage for future inflation and asset bubbles -- but the Fed has been fairly unified behind it.
The minutes indicated that Fed officials saw a diminishing risk of deflation, a protracted fall in prices of the sort that has afflicted Japan for more than two decades. That fear of deflation was a principal factor behind the decision in August to set the stage for the bond purchases.
Other economic reports issued on Wednesday supported the Fed's view of an economy starting to gather some steam. The Commerce Department reported that new home construction rose by the largest amount in 20 months, and the Labor Department reported that wholesale prices rose sharply in January, driven up by gasoline and pharmaceuticals. Excluding the volatile food and energy categories, the index rose by the most in more than two years.
The Fed's own report on industrial production in January was more mixed. Factory output rose for the fifth consecutive month, pushed by strong car and truck sales, but utility and mine output fell, leaving the overall level of production lower, the first month-to-month decline in 19 months.
For their part, investors have been bidding up stock prices steadily since late November. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 12,288.17 Wednesday, up 61.53 points, or 0.50 percent.
''Things are moving in the right direction, and the Fed is taking that into consideration,'' said Martha A. Starr, an economics professor at American University here, and a former senior economist at the Fed. ''The higher growth rate bodes well, perhaps, for an earlier recovery in the labor market than had been expected, but even with the better growth prognosis, it will take a while for the average person on the street to feel it.''
The minutes painted a picture of a group that was not quite certain about how long the economy would take to recover from the 2007-9 recession -- the longest downturn since the Depression.
''On the downside, participants remained worried about the possible effects of spillovers from the banking and fiscal strains in peripheral Europe, the ongoing fiscal adjustments by U.S. state and local governments, and the continued weakness in the housing market,'' the minutes stated.
''On the upside, the recent strength in household spending raised the possibility that domestic final demand could snap back more rapidly than anticipated. If so, a considerably stronger recovery could take hold, more in line with the sorts of recoveries seen following deep economic recessions in the past.''
The minutes noted that most Fed officials viewed the large slack in the economy -- the economy's underperformance relative to its potential -- as ''likely to remain a force restraining inflation,'' and believed that while price declines were unlikely, inflation was likely to remain below its desired level (2 percent or slightly below) ''for some time.''
Some officials also said that if the public doubted the Fed's willingness to reduce its huge balance sheet -- by selling the financial assets it acquired as a response to the crisis -- when the time comes to do so, ''the result could be upward pressure on inflation expectations and so on actual inflation.''
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has repeatedly stated that the Fed was ready to act if inflation posed a threat.
Some private economists think the Fed might have to raise interest rates as early as this year, but others say a rate increase is unlikely to occur until 2012 at the soonest, barring an unexpected jump in inflationary pressures.
''A few members noted that additional data pointing to a sufficiently strong recovery could make it appropriate to consider reducing the pace or overall size of the purchase program,'' the minutes stated, referring to the $600 billion program. ''However, others pointed out that it was unlikely that the outlook would change by enough to substantiate any adjustments to the program before its completion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, has repeatedly said the Fed is ready to act when inflation poses a threat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



445 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Approves Band Device for Less Obese

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
People no longer need to be quite as obese as before to qualify for weight loss surgery.
The Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday approved the wider use of Allergan's Lap-Band stomach-restricting device to some people who are just barely obese. 
Allergan estimated that more than 26 million Americans would be newly eligible for the surgery, more than doubling the 15 million to 18 million eligible under the old standard.
Still, Allergan did not get all it asked for. The F.D.A. lowered the weight requirement only for people who have a health problem related to obesity, like hypertension or diabetes, not for people who are heavy but otherwise healthy.
''In order to target this therapy to patients who will benefit the most, the approved indication is limited to patients at the highest risk of obesity-related complications,'' said Karen Riley, a spokeswoman for the agency.
Allergan said it was pleased nonetheless.
Until now the Lap-Band has been approved for people with a body mass index, or B.M.I., of at least 40 if they have no obesity-related health problems and at least 35 if they have such a problem.
Allergan applied to lower the threshold to 35 for people without complications and to 30 for those with a related health condition.
The F.D.A. agreed to lower the requirement for those with an associated health condition to 30. But it left the requirement for otherwise healthy people at 40. An index of 30 is considered the lower boundary of obesity.
Under the previous rules, a person who is five-foot-six and has diabetes would have had to weigh 216 pounds to qualify. Now that person would have to weigh only 186 pounds.
An advisory committee to the F.D.A. voted 8 to 2 in December to endorse the wider use of the Lap-Band, concluding that the benefits of the device exceed the risks for the patients in the lower range of obesity.
Some experts say the expanded approval for the Lap-Band, combined with a dearth of weight-loss drugs, will drive more moderately obese people to consider surgery. In recent months the F.D.A. declined to approve three new diet pills and forced the withdrawal from the market of an older drug, Meridia.
The Lap-Band is approved for use only in people who have failed to lose weight by diet, exercise or drugs.
The Lap-Band is an inflatable silicone ring that is placed around the upper part of the stomach. It restricts how much a person can eat and makes one feel full more quickly.
In the study Allergan submitted to win the expanded approval, patients lost an average of 18 percent of their weight after a year. Allergan has agreed to follow patients in that study for another five years.
The company, based in Irvine, Calif., is hoping to increase sales of the Lap-Band, which it says have been soft because of the poor economy. Still, it expects obesity product sales of $220 million to $240 million this year. That is a small part of its business; Allergan is best known for the Botox wrinkle treatment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (92%); BARIATRICS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); DIETING (90%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (90%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (89%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (78%); DIABETES (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (70%); HYPERTENSION (55%)

COMPANY: ALLERGAN INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

TICKER: AGN (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



446 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: A Political Divide Over the Inquiry of the Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The government inquiry into the causes of the 2008 financial crisis was the focus of intense partisan bickering on Wednesday at a House hearing. Republicans called the final 545-page report a political exercise whose findings were mostly inevitable, while Democrats defended its main conclusion: that Wall Street risk-taking and regulatory negligence combined to produce an avoidable disaster.
The final report of the panel, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, has become a modest best seller; the original print run of 25,000 paperback copies has sold out. But the partisan argument over its findings could blunt its lasting impact. 
The divisions within the House Financial Services Committee, which summoned six of the commission's 10 members to testify, mirrored the panel itself: six members appointed by Democrats endorsed the conclusions, which were released last month, while the four named by Republicans produced two separate dissents.
''From the beginning, I thought that the commission was created for political purposes, with a partisan structure and a partisan agenda,'' the commission's vice chairman, Bill Thomas, a Republican, testified.
The commission's chairman, Phil Angelides, a Democrat, tried to play down the differences. ''While commissioners were not unanimous on all issues or on the emphasis we placed on the key causes of the crisis, there were, in fact, many areas of agreement,'' Mr. Angelides said, while also calling the document ''a valuable and accurate historical account'' of the crisis and the events leading to it.
Republicans lambasted the report as flawed. Representative Ed Royce of California said the document did not place sufficient blame on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government finance entities. (The report found that they were not central to the crisis.)
Representative Patrick T. McHenry of North Carolina said the document was ''a clipping service'' of previously published findings, and Representative Francisco R. Canseco of Texas called it merely ''a step-by-step accounting of the crisis.'' (Though most of its findings were no surprise, the commission held 19 days of hearings, conducted 700 interviews and gathered millions of pages of documents.)
Representative Robert Dold, Republican of Illinois, said Democrats had used the report ''to support pre-established political philosophies.'' Representative Michael Grimm, Republican of New York, said some commissioners were ''more interested in following an ideological agenda than in producing a report that would assist Congress.''
Democrats defended the commission's findings.
Representative Maxine Waters of California suggested that the critics were trying to detract attention from the panel's findings. ''My fear is that some of my colleagues will try to rewrite history, and perhaps some of those in the public, listening to their messages, will forget the true cause of how we got here,'' she said.
Of the four Republicans who dissented, three, including Mr. Thomas, did not substantially disagree with the Democratic majority. Mr. Thomas said the main differences were: a focus on a global credit bubble fed by capital flows across borders, which the majority did not emphasize; Republicans favored less attention to the structure of the mortgage finance system in the United States, since other countries with very different mortgage systems also experienced housing crashes; and also an emphasis on problems financial services firms shared -- like concentrated exposure to housing and poor risk management -- rather than failures of individual executives and regulators.
''However, when you are looking for victims and villains, rather than essential causes, you can examine the same set of facts and arrive at diametrically different conclusions,'' Mr. Thomas said.
Mr. Angelides said the majority did not pull its punches. For example, he noted that the report assailed as inadequate the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's oversight of Citigroup, the banking giant that ultimately needed a federal bailout.
At the time, the New York Fed was led by Timothy F. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary. It was Citigroup's primary regulator, though it shared the duties with other regulators whose failings were also cited.
''We found, without regard to party, without regard to private sector or public sector, that this crisis was avoidable,'' Mr. Angelides said.
Mr. Thomas questioned that conclusion, citing testimony by the financier Warren E. Buffett, who said that no one had anticipated a nationwide fall in home prices. ''If Warren Buffett didn't know it was coming, how can you say, very nonchalantly, it all could have been avoided?''
The impact of the report was already blunted by the fact that the Dodd-Frank Act, a far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation, was signed into law in July.
Mr. Angelides offered a strong endorsement of the new law, saying it had addressed many of the failings examined by the commission, which was responsible for looking at causes, not recommending solutions. Mr. Thomas, in contrast, called the law a case of ''regulatory overreach.''
That the report was recording healthy sales -- even though it is available free at fcic.gov -- was nearly the only development that was not met with partisan rancor. Though the proceeds will go to the government, one skeptic, Representative David Schweikert, Republican of Arizona, quipped, ''I'm really beginning to question Americans' reading habits.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HISTORY (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

PERSON: EDWARD R ROYCE (57%); PATRICK T MCHENRY (57%); MAXINE WATERS (57%); MICHAEL GRIMM (57%); ROBERT DOLD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



447 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Increase; Industrial Production Falls

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Producer prices rose in January to their highest rate in more than two years, hinting at a build up in inflation pressures as the recovery gathers pace.
The core Producer Price Index, excluding food and energy, rose 0.5 percent, the highest since October 2008, the Labor Department said on Wednesday. 
Including food and energy, producer prices rose 0.8 percent in January.
The advance came after increases of 0.9 percent in December and 0.7 percent in November.
The rise in producer prices, which exceeded economists' expectations for a 0.2 percent gain, reflected a jump in pharmaceutical preparations, which accounted for 40 percent of the increase.
''The price increase might be a little troubling because it suggests that inflation is spreading across all raw materials,'' said James Meyer, chief investment officer at Tower Bridge Advisors in West Conshohocken, Pa. ''If you print money and have a stronger economy you're going to have some inflationary pressures,'' he said.
The rise in core index comes at a time when a surge in commodity prices has caused most advanced economies to raise red flags on inflation. The Federal Reserve has so far shown little concern about pricing pressures, and officials have repeatedly said that core consumer inflation remains too low for comfort. Economists believe that could change.
In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday that industrial output unexpectedly fell in January.
Industrial production fell 0.1 percent in January after an upwardly revised 1.2 percent jump in December, which had been driven by unseasonably cold weather and heating demand.
The drop was the first decline in output since June 2009 and was well below the median forecast for a 0.5 percent increase.
Excluding motor vehicles and parts, factory production rose 0.1 percent in January.
The output of utilities fell 1.6 percent in January, as temperatures moved closer to normal after unseasonably cold weather. Mining output fell 0.7 percent. Manufacturing output in January grew just 0.3 percent after an upwardly revised 0.9 percent gain in December.
Capacity use, a measure of how fully firms are using their resources, dipped to 76.1 percent from an upwardly revised 76.2 percent. Economists polled by Reuters had predicted a 76.3 percent capacity use rate.
A report from the Commerce Department showed housing starts jumped 14.6 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 596,000 units, from 520,000 units in December.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast housing starts edging up to a 554,000 unit rate. Compared with January last year, residential construction was down 2.6 percent.
New building permits dropped 10.4 percent, to a 562,000-unit pace last month.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); INFLATION (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



448 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Shy U.S. Intellectual Created Playbook Used in a Revolution

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Andrew W. Lehren contributed reporting from New York, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Cairo.

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Halfway around the world from Tahrir Square in Cairo, an aging American intellectual shuffles about his cluttered brick row house in a working-class neighborhood here. His name is Gene Sharp. Stoop-shouldered and white-haired at 83, he grows orchids, has yet to master the Internet and hardly seems like a dangerous man.
But for the world's despots, his ideas can be fatal.
Few Americans have heard of Mr. Sharp. But for decades, his practical writings on nonviolent revolution -- most notably ''From Dictatorship to Democracy,'' a 93-page guide to toppling autocrats, available for download in 24 languages -- have inspired dissidents around the world, including in Burma, Bosnia, Estonia and Zimbabwe, and now Tunisia and Egypt. 
When Egypt's April 6 Youth Movement was struggling to recover from a failed effort in 2005, its leaders tossed around ''crazy ideas'' about bringing down the government, said Ahmed Maher, a leading strategist. They stumbled on Mr. Sharp while examining the Serbian movement Otpor, which he had influenced.
When the nonpartisan International Center on Nonviolent Conflict, which trains democracy activists, slipped into Cairo several years ago to conduct a workshop, among the papers it distributed was Mr. Sharp's ''198 Methods of Nonviolent Action,'' a list of tactics that range from hunger strikes to ''protest disrobing'' to ''disclosing identities of secret agents.''
Dalia Ziada, an Egyptian blogger and activist who attended the workshop and later organized similar sessions on her own, said trainees were active in both the Tunisia and Egypt revolts. She said that some activists translated excerpts of Mr. Sharp's work into Arabic, and that his message of ''attacking weaknesses of dictators'' stuck with them.
Peter Ackerman, a onetime student of Mr. Sharp who founded the nonviolence center and ran the Cairo workshop, cites his former mentor as proof that ''ideas have power.''
Mr. Sharp, hard-nosed yet exceedingly shy, is careful not to take credit. He is more thinker than revolutionary, though as a young man he participated in lunch-counter sit-ins and spent nine months in a federal prison in Danbury, Conn., as a conscientious objector during the Korean War. He has had no contact with the Egyptian protesters, he said, although he recently learned that the Muslim Brotherhood had ''From Dictatorship to Democracy'' posted on its Web site.
While seeing the revolution that ousted Hosni Mubarak as a sign of ''encouragement,'' Mr. Sharp said, ''The people of Egypt did that -- not me.''
He has been watching events in Cairo unfold on CNN from his modest house in East Boston, which he bought in 1968 for $150 plus back taxes.
It doubles as the headquarters of the Albert Einstein Institution, an organization Mr. Sharp founded in 1983 while running seminars at Harvard and teaching political science at what is now the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth. It consists of him; his assistant, Jamila Raqib, whose family fled Soviet oppression in Afghanistan when she was 5; a part-time office manager and a Golden Retriever mix named Sally. Their office wall sports a bumper sticker that reads ''Gotov Je!'' -- Serbian for ''He is finished!''
In this era of Twitter revolutionaries, the Internet holds little allure for Mr. Sharp. He is not on Facebook and does not venture onto the Einstein Web site. (''I should,'' he said apologetically.) If he must send e-mail, he consults a handwritten note Ms. Raqib has taped to the doorjamb near his state-of-the-art Macintosh computer in a study overflowing with books and papers. ''To open a blank e-mail,'' it reads, ''click once on icon that says 'new' at top of window.''
Some people suspect Mr. Sharp of being a closet peacenik and a lefty -- in the 1950s, he wrote for a publication called ''Peace News'' and he once worked as personal secretary to A. J. Muste, a noted labor union activist and pacifist -- but he insists that he outgrew his own early pacifism and describes himself as ''trans-partisan.''
Based on studies of revolutionaries like Gandhi, nonviolent uprisings, civil rights struggles, economic boycotts and the like, he has concluded that advancing freedom takes careful strategy and meticulous planning, advice that Ms. Ziada said resonated among youth leaders in Egypt. Peaceful protest is best, he says -- not for any moral reason, but because violence provokes autocrats to crack down. ''If you fight with violence,'' Mr. Sharp said, ''you are fighting with your enemy's best weapon, and you may be a brave but dead hero.''
Autocrats abhor Mr. Sharp. In 2007, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela denounced him, and officials in Myanmar, according to diplomatic cables obtained by the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, accused him of being part of a conspiracy to set off demonstrations intended ''to bring down the government.'' (A year earlier, a cable from the United States Embassy in Damascus noted that Syrian dissidents had trained in nonviolence by reading Mr. Sharp's writings.)
In 2008, Iran featured Mr. Sharp, along with Senator John McCain of Arizona and the Democratic financier George Soros, in an animated propaganda video that accused Mr. Sharp of being the C.I.A. agent ''in charge of America's infiltration into other countries,'' an assertion his fellow scholars find ludicrous.
''He is generally considered the father of the whole field of the study of strategic nonviolent action,'' said Stephen Zunes, an expert in that field at the University of San Francisco. ''Some of these exaggerated stories of him going around the world and starting revolutions and leading mobs, what a joke. He's much more into doing the research and the theoretical work than he is in disseminating it.''
That is not to say Mr. Sharp has not seen any action. In 1989, he flew to China to witness the uprising in Tiananmen Square. In the early 1990s, he sneaked into a rebel camp in Myanmar at the invitation of Robert L. Helvey, a retired Army colonel who advised the opposition there. They met when Colonel Helvey was on a fellowship at Harvard; the military man thought the professor had ideas that could avoid war. ''Here we were in this jungle, reading Gene Sharp's work by candlelight,'' Colonel Helvey recalled. ''This guy has tremendous insight into society and the dynamics of social power.''
Not everyone is so impressed. As'ad AbuKhalil, a Lebanese political scientist and founder of the Angry Arab News Service blog, was outraged by a passing mention of Mr. Sharp in The New York Times on Monday. He complained that Western journalists were looking for a ''Lawrence of Arabia'' to explain Egyptians' success, in a colonialist attempt to deny credit to Egyptians.
Still, just as Mr. Sharp's profile seems to be expanding, his institute is contracting.
Mr. Ackerman, who became wealthy as an investment banker after studying under Mr. Sharp, contributed millions of dollars and kept it afloat for years. But about a decade ago, Mr. Ackerman wanted to disseminate Mr. Sharp's ideas more aggressively, as well as his own. He put his money into his own center, which also produces movies and even a video game to train dissidents. An annuity he purchased still helps pay Mr. Sharp's salary.
In the twilight of his career, Mr. Sharp, who never married, is slowing down. His voice trembles and his blue eyes grow watery when he is tired; he gave up driving after a recent accident. He does his own grocery shopping; his assistant, Ms. Raqib, tries to follow him when it is icy. He does not like it.
He says his work is far from done. He has just submitted a manuscript for a new book, ''Sharp's Dictionary of Power and Struggle: Terminology of Civil Resistance in Conflicts,'' to be published this fall by Oxford University Press. He would like readers to know he did not pick the title. ''It's a little immodest,'' he said. He has another manuscript in the works about Einstein, whose own concerns about totalitarianism prompted Mr. Sharp to adopt the scientist's name for his institution. (Einstein wrote the foreword to Mr. Sharp's first book, about Gandhi.)
In the meantime, he is keeping a close eye on the Middle East. He was struck by the Egyptian protesters' discipline in remaining peaceful, and especially by their lack of fear. ''That is straight out of Gandhi,'' Mr. Sharp said. ''If people are not afraid of the dictatorship, that dictatorship is in big trouble.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about Gene Sharp, the author of a treatise on toppling autocrats, misspelled the surname of his assistant at the Albert Einstein Institution, which he founded. She is Jamila Raqib, not Raquib.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gene Sharp, 83, is known for writing about nonviolence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WEB SITES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (68%); KOREAN WAR (66%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ESTONIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



449 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Secret Report Ordered by Obama Identified Potential Arab Uprisings

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama ordered his advisers last August to produce a secret report on unrest in the Arab world, which concluded that without sweeping political changes, countries from Bahrain to Yemen were ripe for popular revolt, administration officials said Wednesday.
Mr. Obama's order, known as a Presidential Study Directive, identified likely flashpoints, most notably Egypt, and solicited proposals for how the administration could push for political change in countries with autocratic rulers who are also valuable allies of the United States, these officials said. 
The 18-page classified report, they said, grapples with a problem that has bedeviled the White House's approach toward Egypt and other countries in recent days: how to balance American strategic interests and the desire to avert broader instability against the democratic demands of the protesters.
Administration officials did not say how the report related to intelligence analysis of the Middle East, which the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Leon E. Panetta, acknowledged in testimony before Congress, needed to better identify ''triggers'' for uprisings in countries like Egypt.
Officials said Mr. Obama's support for the crowds in Tahrir Square in Cairo, even if it followed some mixed signals by his administration, reflected his belief that there was a greater risk in not pushing for changes because Arab leaders would have to resort to ever more brutal methods to keep the lid on dissent.
''There's no question Egypt was very much on the mind of the president,'' said a senior official who helped draft the report and who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss its findings. ''You had all the unknowns created by Egypt's succession picture -- and Egypt is the anchor of the region.''
At the time, officials said, President Hosni Mubarak appeared to be either digging in or grooming his son, Gamal, to succeed him. Parliamentary elections scheduled for November were widely expected to be a sham. Egyptian police were jailing bloggers, and Mohamed ElBaradei, the former chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency, had returned home to lead a nascent opposition movement.
In Yemen, too, officials said Mr. Obama worried that the administration's intense focus on counterterrorism operations against Al Qaeda was ignoring a budding political crisis, as angry young people rebelled against President Ali Abdullah Saleh, an autocratic leader of the same vintage as Mr. Mubarak.
''Whether it was Yemen or other countries in the region, you saw a set of trends'' -- a big youth population, threadbare education systems, stagnant economies and new social network technologies like Facebook and Twitter -- that was a ''real prescription for trouble,'' another official said.
The White House held weekly meetings with experts from the State Department, the C.I.A. and other agencies. The process was led by Dennis B. Ross, the president's senior adviser on the Middle East; Samantha Power, a senior director at the National Security Council who handles human rights issues; and Gayle Smith, a senior director responsible for global development.
The administration kept the project secret, officials said, because it worried that if word leaked out, Arab allies would pressure the White House, something that happened in the days after protests convulsed Cairo.
Indeed, except for Egypt, the officials refused to discuss countries in detail. The report singles out four for close scrutiny, which an official said ran the gamut: one that is trying to move toward change, another that has resisted any change and two with deep strategic ties to the United States as well as religious tensions. Those characteristics would suggest Jordan, Egypt, Bahrain and Yemen.
By issuing a directive, Mr. Obama was also pulling the topic of political change out of regular meetings on diplomatic, commercial or military relations with Arab states. In those meetings, one official said, the strategic interests loom so large that it is almost impossible to discuss reform efforts.
The study has helped shape other messages, like a speech Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton gave in Qatar in January, in which she criticized Arab leaders for resisting change.
''We really pushed the question of who was taking the lead in reform,'' said an official. ''Would pushing reform harm relations with the Egyptian military? Doesn't the military have an interest in reform?''
Mr. Obama also pressed his advisers to study popular uprisings in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia to determine which ones worked and which did not. He is drawn to Indonesia, where he spent several years as a child, which ousted its longtime leader, Suharto, in 1998.
While the report is guiding the administration's response to events in the Arab world, it has not yet been formally submitted -- and given the pace of events in the region, an official said, it is still a work in progress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (85%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) EGYPT (98%); YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHRAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



450 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Florida's Governor Rejects High-Speed Rail Line, Fearing Cost to Taxpayers

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Gary Fineout contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the most significant blow yet to the Obama administration's vision of a national high-speed rail network, Gov. Rick Scott of Florida on Wednesday rejected plans for a high-speed link between Tampa and Orlando, in the process turning down more than $2 billion in federal money.
Mr. Scott is the third newly elected Republican governor to turn down a portion of the administration's national rail system, joining John Kasich of Ohio and Scott Walker of Wisconsin. Each of the three replaced governors who had lobbied for the funds. 
Mr. Scott's move comes a little more than a week after Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. called for spending $53 billion on passenger trains and high-speed rail projects over the next six years as part of the administration's goal of making high-speed rail accessible to 80 percent of Americans within 25 years.
The 85-mile Tampa-to-Orlando segment, on which trains would travel as fast as 170 miles per hour, was to be the showpiece of that initiative -- in part because the government already owned much of the right-of-way along the route, which would allow it to be built relatively quickly, and because the fast-moving train would contrast with slow-moving traffic along Interstate 4.
But critics -- including the Republican majority in the House of Representatives, which has questioned the White House's rail strategy -- say the need to link Tampa and Orlando pales in comparison with the need for high-speed rail serving places that have received relatively little in federal economic stimulus funds for transportation projects, including the busy Northeast rail corridor between Washington and Boston.
Mr. Scott said at a news conference in Tallahassee on Wednesday that cost overruns related to the Tampa-to-Orlando line could leave Florida taxpayers stuck with a $3 billion tab. Further, he said that if the state deemed the project too costly after having started construction, it would be required to return the $2.4 billion to the federal government. He also said he believed that estimates of riders and revenue for the rail line were too optimistic, and that state taxpayers would have been left to pay for subsidies to keep the line running because it would be unable to pay for itself.
Mr. Scott said that although one study had projected that three million people would use the Tampa-to-Orlando line annually, only 3.2 million people rode Amtrak's Acela trains in the Northeast Corridor in 2010, even though the population centers along the Acela route have as many as eight times the population of the area that would be served by the proposed Florida line.
When commuter rail passengers are included, about 12 million people ride trains annually along the Northeast Corridor. ''The truth is that this project would be far too costly to taxpayers, and I believe the risk far outweighs the benefits,'' he said at the news conference.
Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary, said in a statement on Wednesday that he was ''extremely disappointed'' by Mr. Scott's decision, but that the money would most likely be redistributed to other states.
Mr. Scott's decision left Democratic as well as Republican lawmakers saying Wednesday that they had been taken by surprise, particularly given that Florida's unemployment rate is about 12 percent. The rail line had been expected to create thousands of new jobs.
Representative John Mica, a Florida Republican and the new chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, told reporters Wednesday that he had tried but failed to talk Mr. Scott out of turning down the project.
Mr. Mica said the ''federal government has done everything'' it can, including agreeing to put up 90 percent of the rail link's financing. He added that it ''defies logic'' that Mr. Scott would cancel the rail line before the state had received bids on the project.
The current proposal for a high-speed Tampa-to-Orlando line, which was supposed to eventually connect with Miami, was one of two high-speed lines approved by Congress. The other would connect San Francisco and Los Angeles at speeds up to 225 miles per hour. That project has received federal pledges of about $3 billion, though the cost has been estimated to be $43 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A stretch of Interstate 4 outside Tampa, Fla., where the federal government would have committed $2 billion for a rail link. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIME) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (95%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRAINS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (90%); SCOTT WALKER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN KASICH (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



451 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: A Life's Value? It May Depend On the Agency

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the players here remake the nation's vast regulatory system, they have been grappling with a subject that is more the province of poets and philosophers than bureaucrats: what is the value of a human life?
The answer determines how much spending the government should require to prevent a single death.
To protests from business and praise from unions, environmentalists and consumer groups, one agency after another has ratcheted up the price of life, justifying tougher -- and more costly -- standards.
The Environmental Protection Agencyset the value of a life at $9.1 million last year in proposing tighter restrictions on air pollution. The agency used numbers as low as $6.8 million during the George W. Bush administration. 
The Food and Drug Administration declared that life was worth $7.9 million last year, up from $5 million in 2008, in proposing warning labels on cigarette packages featuring images of cancer victims.
The Transportation Department has used values of around $6 million to justify recent decisions to impose regulations that the Bush administration had rejected as too expensive, like requiring stronger roofs on cars.
And the numbers may keep climbing. In December, the E.P.A. said it might set the value of preventing cancer deaths 50 percent higher than other deaths, because cancer kills slowly. A report last year financed by the Department of Homeland Security suggested that the value of preventing deaths from terrorism might be 100 percent higher than other deaths.
The trend is a sensitive subject for an administration that is trying to improve its relationship with the business community, much of which has bitterly opposed the expansion of regulation. The White House said the decisions on the value of life were made by the agencies. The agencies, for their part, referred any questions to the White House.
''This administration utilizes the best available science in assessing the benefits and costs of any potential regulation, drawing on widely accepted methodologies that have been in use for years,'' Meg Reilly, a spokeswoman for the Office of Management and Budget, which oversees the rule-making process, said in an e-mail.
Several independent experts, however, said that the increases were long overdue, noting that some agencies had been using the same values for more than a decade without adjusting for inflation. One office at the E.P.A. cut the value of life in 2004.
''Agencies have been using numbers that I thought were just too low,'' said W. Kip Viscusi, a professor of economics at Vanderbilt University whose research is cited by most of the federal agencies as the basis for their calculations.
Businesses would prefer to discuss the consequences of the increases -- new regulations and higher costs, which they say are hampering economic growth -- rather than suggest that the government has overstated the value of life.
But some industry representatives said assigning a value to life was inherently subjective, and that the recent changes were driven by the administration's pursuit of its regulatory agenda rather than scientific considerations.
''It looks like they just cooked the books -- they just doubled the numbers,'' said Todd Spencer, executive vice president of the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association, a trade group for the trucking industry, which faces higher costs under some of the Transportation Department's new rules. The Bush administration rejected a plan in 2005 to make car companies double the roof strength of new vehicles, which it estimated might prevent 135 deaths in rollover accidents each year.
At the time, Transportation officials figured that the cost of the roofs would exceed the value of lives saved by almost $800 million. So the agency proposed a smaller increase in roof strength that might save 44 lives a year.
Last year, the Obama administration imposed the stricter and more expensive roof-strength standard, and it published a new set of calculations showing that the benefits outstripped the costs.
Most of the difference came from the increased value of human life. By raising that number to $6.1 million from a figure of $3.5 million in the original study, the Obama administration rendered those 135 lives -- and hundreds of averted injuries -- more valuable than the roofs.
The pattern of increases is scrambling a long-standing political dynamic. The business community historically has pushed for regulators to put a dollar value on life, part of a broader campaign to make agencies prove that the benefits of proposed regulations exceed the costs.
But some business groups are reconsidering the effectiveness of cost-benefit analysis as a check on regulations. The United States Chamber of Commerce is now campaigning for Congress to assert greater control over the rule-making process, reflecting a judgment that formulas may offer less reliable protection than politicians.
Some consumer groups, meanwhile, find themselves cheering the government's results but reluctant to embrace the method. Advocates for increased regulation have long argued that cost-benefit analysis understates both the value of life and the benefits of government oversight.
''If analysis is going to be imposed on the rule-making process, we want higher values for injury and for fatalities,'' said Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, which pushed the Transportation Department to reconsider the roof-strength regulation.
But Mr. Weissman said he still believed that such analysis was an impediment to necessary regulation.
''The bigger picture is absent,'' he said. ''How do you do cost-benefit analysis on global warming? It constrains the imagination. It really is a constraint in terms of bounding what is given serious consideration.''
The current rise in the value of life is based on the work of Professor Viscusi, who wrote his first paper on cost-benefit analysis as a Harvard undergraduate in the early 1970s. He won a prize and found a career.
The idea he and others have since developed in a long string of studies is that differences in wages show the value that workers place on avoiding the risk of death. Say that companies must pay lumberjacks an additional $1,000 a year to perform work that generally kills one in 1,000 workers. It follows that most Americans would forgo $1,000 a year to avoid that risk -- and that 1,000 Americans will collectively forgo $1 million to avoid the same risk entirely. That number is said to be the ''statistical value of life.''
Professor Viscusi's work pegs it at around $8.7 million in current dollars.
Before the current administration, only the E.P.A. had fully embraced this methodology. Other agencies relied instead on the results of surveys asking Americans how much they would spend to avoid a given risk. This technique tends to produce significantly lower results. An even older technique, which yields even lower numbers, is to sum the wages lost when a worker dies. In 2000 the E.P.A set a baseline of $7.8 million, updated to current dollars. But in 2004, the office that issues clean air regulations reduced that baseline by $500,000 in an analysis of proposed limits on emissions from industrial boilers.
Last year, the E.P.A. directed its various offices to return to the 2000 baseline, adjusting that figure for inflation and wage growth. In some recent studies, the E.P.A. has used a figure of $9.1 million after making those adjustments.
The agency said at the same time that it was working to set a new standard. In a white paper issued in December, it raised the possibility that people might place a higher value on avoiding a slow death from cancer than a quick death in a car accident. It also broached a concept it described as ''altruism,'' the idea that people may place a higher value on the common good than on their own survival.
John D. Graham, who oversaw the use of cost-benefit analysis during the George W. Bush administration, said that the scientific justification was ''quite strong'' for raising the values used by the Transportation Department, but he cautioned that the E.P.A. was going too far.
''Why should the same clinical condition be valued differently at different federal agencies?'' Mr. Graham, now dean of the School of Environmental and Public Affairs at Indiana University, asked in an e-mailed response to questions.
Many experts similarly ask why life itself should be valued differently. Agencies are allowed to set their own numbers. The E.P.A. and the Transportation Department use numbers that are $3 million apart. The process generally involves experts, but the decisions ultimately are made by political appointees.
The Office of Management and Budget told agencies in 2004 that they should pick a number between $1 million and $10 million. That guidance remains in effect, although the office has more recently warned agencies that it would be difficult to justify the use of numbers under $5 million, two administration officials said.
Close observers of the process point to two reasons for the variation in numbers. First, they say that setting a single standard is not worth the high-stakes battle that would be required with advocates on both sides. The Obama administration, like its predecessors, has preferred to deal with the issue informally, on an agency-by-agency basis.
Second, they say the lack of a standard preserves flexibility.
The Food and Drug Administration issued a rule in 2009 requiring new warning labels on packages and bottles of acetaminophen and other drugs. Its justification valued life at $5 million. A few months later, the agency acknowledged that it had calculated the cost of adding one new label, while requiring two new labels. However, the agency continued, the benefits still exceeded the costs because the value of life was $7 million.
A few months later, in an unrelated rule regarding salmonella, the agency once again cited a value of $5 million, which it said best reflected the available research. And in its recent study on cigarette labels, the agency cited a value of $7.9 million.
''The reality is that politics frequently trumps economics,'' said Robert Hahn, a leading scholar of the American regulatory process who is now a professor at the University of Manchester in England. But he said that putting a price tag on life still was worthwhile, to help politicians choose among priorities and to shape the details of their proposals.
''Even small changes,'' he said, ''can save billions of dollars.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Testing a G.M. vehicle. The Transportation Department says each life saved is worth $6 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TERRORISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PRODUCT LABELING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (71%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



452 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Sure Recipe for Decline: Neglect and Gluttony

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
As the White House and Congressional Republicans duel this week over their respective budget proposals, the conversation in the capital is all about the size and role of the federal government. Basically, President Obama would cut some and spend a lot; Republicans would cut a lot and spend much less.
There is another way to look at this argument, though, which is that both sides have now laid out competing visions of what should frighten us most about the future. Both the president and his adversaries are basing their budgets on fears of a looming and permanent American decline, but their priorities reflect a profound disagreement on what will cause that decline and how we can avoid it. 
Mr. Obama's $3.7 trillion budget, like his State of the Union address three weeks ago, is premised on what you might call the ''national neglect'' theory of decline. In this view of the world, if we fail to invest now in the kinds of things that will enable 21st-century industries to flourish, then the United States in 2050 might look like 19th-century Britain or France, whose economic dominance bred a kind of self-satisfied apathy while our hungrier forefathers ran around inventing light bulbs and Model T's and stuff like that.
In order to avert the same fate at the hands of rising economies in India and China, Mr. Obama would invest billions now to lay down high-speed rail lines, expand the wireless Internet and educate a new generation of entrepreneurs, to name a few of his most pressing priorities.
The president admits that government debt could become a crippling problem, but Mr. Obama has faith that the two parties will ultimately work together behind closed doors to head off any fiscal crises -- just as they have several times in the past 30 years. Mr. Obama doesn't say it quite this way, but the crux of his argument seems to be that you can always sit down and hammer out a passable deal to change the financing of Social Security or Medicare, but you can't just run out and build a national high-speed rail network whenever the thought finally occurs to you. By then, it might be too late.
House Republicans, meanwhile, foresee an economic decline more along the lines of a ''national gluttony'' model. In their nightmare, America in 2050 looks a lot like something out of ''Road Warrior'' -- or, worse yet, Greece. That's because we will have long since spent our way to the point where every penny of our taxes goes to service the national debt or to pay for entitlement programs, which means there will be no money left to invest in anything. America will be wholly owned by the Chinese and other creditors, and our businesses won't be able to expand or innovate because the cost of capital will be prohibitively high.
Republicans don't necessarily dispute that the country's infrastructure could use an upgrade; they just think there's not much government could ever think to do that the private sector, unencumbered by regulation and taxes, couldn't do more efficiently. And if you don't get a hold on federal spending immediately, they argue, all the wireless hubs in the world won't be able to help you.
These competing visions -- decline by neglect versus decline by gluttony -- aren't by any means mutually exclusive, and you don't need a Mensa membership to see that we can't really afford to play around with either one. To argue that government shouldn't invest in making the country technologically viable is to ignore the role that tax dollars played in building railroads and highways and the Internet. It wasn't some start-up in a garage that landed Apollo on the moon, spawning an aerospace industry and all kinds of ancillary technologies.
At the same time, as the president's own debt commission pointed out (using data from the Congressional Budget Office), even waiting 10 years to address the long-term debt could double the spending cuts and tax increases needed to set right the country's finances. And sooner or later, the experts will tell you, that impending crisis will lead to higher interest rates and stifled enterprise.
The question, then, is the extent to which either party's theory of decline allows room for addressing the other. And in this way, Mr. Obama would seem to be taking the more balanced approach.
True, Mr. Obama didn't act on his own debt panel's recommendation in the budget, and his proposed $1.1 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade doesn't amount to a dent in the long-term problem, or even really a ding. But the president did propose some cuts to programs long cherished by his party (like community block grants and aid for water treatment plants), and he has repeatedly acknowledged the need to address the structural problems in the federal budget, which he argues will require a gradual process with cooperation from both parties.
Republicans, on the other hand, while making a strong push for curtailed spending in the short term, have yet to accept the case for any real public investment in technology or education or anything else, for that matter. The entirety of their case rests on the notion that the private sector can by itself build a state-of-the-art infrastructure -- a possibility, certainly, but not one for which you can really find much evidence in any previous chapter of the American story.
The real danger for the country probably isn't simply neglect or gluttony, but something more like a combination of the two. Which means that it's possible to head off one avenue of decline, only to hurtle heedlessly down the other.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Copies of President Obama's budget proposal for the 2012 fiscal year were distributed Monday morning on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); MEDICARE (72%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (64%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



453 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Out of Control in the House

 BODY:
Are there any adults in charge of the House? Watching this week's frenzied slash-and-burn budget contest, we had to conclude the answer to that is no.
First Speaker John Boehner's Republican leadership proposed cutting the rest of the 2011 budget by $32 billion. But that wasn't enough for his fanatical freshmen, who demanded that it be cut by $61 billion, destroying vital government programs with gleeful abandon.
Even that wasn't enough for leaders of the hard-line Republican Study Committee, which represents two-thirds of House Republicans. They proposed cutting another $20 billion, for a ludicrous total of $81 billion, all out of the next seven months of government operations. 
Now some members want to go still further. On Tuesday, the House began debating the list of proposed cuts, and more than 500 amendments were filed, mostly from Republicans trying to cut still more out of -- or end -- programs they dislike. One would stop paying dues to the United Nations. Others would cut all financing for the health care reform law, or Planned Parenthood, or any foreign aid to a country that regularly disagrees with the United States at the United Nations.
If the Republicans got their way, it would wreak havoc on Americans' lives and national security. This blood sport also has nothing to do with the programs that are driving up the long-term deficit: Medicare, Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Social Security.
When he presented his 2012 budget on Monday, President Obama avoided those difficult issues. On Tuesday, he tried to bring a little adult supervision to the budget debate by offering to begin discussing with Republican leaders ways to solve those big-ticket problems. Senate Republican leaders and the House budget chairman, Paul Ryan, have indicated a willingness to discuss entitlements. (Given the political volatility of these issues, the talks need to be behind closed doors.)
Mr. Boehner could show leadership, and bring some sense back to the House, by reminding his members that entitlements are where the big money lies. Instead, he has endorsed the race to remove $100 billion from nonsecurity discretionary spending for the rest of 2011.
Asked on Tuesday if he was concerned that the proposed cuts could lead to tens of thousands of new layoffs, he said he was not. ''Over the last two years, since President Obama has taken office, the federal government has added 200,000 new federal jobs,'' he said. ''And if some of those jobs are lost in this, so be it.''
His figure of 200,000 new federal workers appears to be more than three times higher than reality. Several credible economists have said that an $81 billion cut could result in up to 800,000 layoffs throughout the American economy.
The House freshmen seemed even less concerned about the effect of their budget slashing. ''A lot of us freshmen don't have a whole lot of knowledge about how Washington, D.C., is operated,'' Representative Kristi Noem, a Republican of South Dakota, told the Conservative Political Action Conference last week. ''And, frankly, we don't really care.''
In all of their posturing, Republican lawmakers have studiously avoided making clear to voters what vital government services would be slashed or disappear if they got their way -- like investment in cancer research or a sharp reduction in federal meat inspections, or the number of police on the street, or agents that keep the borders secure, or the number of teachers in your kids' schools.
Those cuts will never get past the Senate, and, on Tuesday, Mr. Obama said he would veto such job-killing cuts if they arrive at his desk. That puts the House leadership on notice. Will they follow the mob and allow the government to shut down if the cuts are not enacted? Or will they take back control of the House and steer it toward reality?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); MEDICAID (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



454 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Emissions Fell in 2009, Showing Impact Of Recession

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Greenhouse gas emissions in the United States declined in 2009 for the second consecutive year, reflecting the impact of the recession on industrial production and overall energy use, the federal government reported on Wednesday. 
Emissions of carbon dioxide and other climate-altering gases fell 6 percent in 2009 and were at their lowest level since 1995, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, which produces the annual inventory of emissions. The agency attributed the decline to the economic slowdown and a shift from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas to produce electricity as the price of natural gas has declined.
Overall emissions in the United States have risen by 7.4 percent since 1990, an annual average of 0.4 percent, the agency reported. Even as the American population has grown, emissions per capita have fallen, and the rate of emissions relative to the size of the economy -- sometimes known as carbon intensity -- has dropped even more sharply.
Total emissions of greenhouse gases were 5.5 billion metric tons in 2009, down from 5.92 billion in 2008 and 6.12 billion in 2007, the last pre-recession year. The United States is the second-largest source of such heat-trapping gases, after China.
Greenhouse gas emissions declined most heavily in the industrial and transportation sectors in 2008 and 2009, while there was virtually no year-to-year change in emissions from commercial and residential buildings and from agriculture.
The trend, while reflecting the weak economy, is in part encouraging news to President Obama, who has pledged to the United Nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States by 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020. The figures released on Wednesday indicated that the country was more than halfway to that goal.
But as the economy recovers, the country will have to take steps to continue the decline of emissions, including switching to cleaner fuels, increasing production of renewable energy, making transportation more efficient and reducing emissions from power plants, refineries and factories. Those steps, whether achieved by regulation or legislation, have proved highly controversial, and Mr. Obama has struggled to persuade Congress to move on the scale or at the pace needed to fulfill his promise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



455 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Boehner in His Element as Spending Cuts Elicit Free-Flowing House Debate

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For Speaker John A. Boehner, the budget-cutting frenzy taking place on the House floor merges two of his animating political passions -- the need to shrink federal spending and the willingness to risk a free-flowing debate.
Throw in a new conservative Republican majority and Mr. Boehner is confident of the outcome. 
''I have no doubts in the coming weeks and months that people will see our resolve around solving our deficit problem,'' Mr. Boehner said in an interview. ''We are going to cut spending. There aren't any ifs, ands or buts about it.''
Just six weeks into the takeover of the House, Mr. Boehner said Republicans had transformed the way Washington thinks about federal dollars, provoking a shift that has all sides -- Republicans, Democrats and the White House -- talking about less spending, even though they may differ on the total amount and exactly what gets cut.
''There has never been a cultural change so quickly,'' Mr. Boehner said as House members on Wednesday upped the ante, making further reductions to the $61 billion in cuts that Republicans hope to make in what federal agencies are now spending. ''Compare that with the last couple of years. There was no limit to the money that was rolling out of here.''
The focus on less spending has also put the spotlight on Mr. Boehner's central economic argument that paring federal outlays will translate into new private sector jobs.
Democrats and some leading economists say that in the short term, Mr. Boehner's approach would instead mean fewer jobs and threaten the fragile economic recovery. And they note that Mr. Boehner did not appear to be upset at that prospect this week when he replied, ''So be it,'' about predictions of federal job losses as a result of the Republican cuts.
''We agree that we have to put the country on a sustainable fiscal path, and we have to reduce the deficit as part of the strategy of long-term growth,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. ''But doing a hatchet job on the budget will cost Americans their jobs in the short term.''
But with the endorsement of a set of economists and added encouragement from the Republican rank and file, Mr. Boehner is steering Republicans on a course of budget cutting that he said would reduce uncertainty about the nation's fiscal condition and spur private investment even as government spending is reduced.
Most Democrats -- and many economists -- say the economy would have been much weaker if President Obama had not pushed through a big stimulus package soon after taking office two years ago, allowing government to make up for the lack of demand from the private sector. And they say that low interest rates suggest that budget deficits are not crimping borrowing by businesses, which in any case are cumulatively sitting on substantial piles of uninvested cash.
But from Mr. Boehner's perspective, the reliance in the last two years on the stimulus plan and other federal intervention to spur job growth has failed and caused the business community to withhold investment.
''When you see these deficits, it just raises more uncertainty,'' he said, citing his own experience in the business world before his election to the House in 1990. ''It causes people to wonder about the future. And when they have those doubts, they are not going to want to invest in new plants, new equipment, new employees.''
Mr. Boehner said the rising deficit and debt, when coupled with the requirements of the health care law and the overhaul of Wall Street rules, has led business executives to shy away from taking commercial gambles. At the same time, he said heavy federal borrowing has also consumed capital that could otherwise go to private investment.
''It is that much less money that is invested,'' he said. ''People are buying all this debt. Where is the money to invest in the private sector?''
In trying to bolster his case that cutting spending will bring a return in jobs, Mr. Boehner this week sent Mr. Obama a statement from 150 economists who said that ''immediate action is needed to rein in federal spending'' to spur job creation.
But that is not a universally shared view. Appearing recently with Senate Democrats, Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Analytics, cautioned against trying to rein in federal spending too quickly, saying such a move could dilute the positive economic impact of the tax deal reached late last year between the White House and Congress.
House Republicans pushed forward on Wednesday with cuts in a wide-open floor debate that took unexpected twists. For example, lawmakers voted to eliminate money for a jet fighter engine that provided jobs near Mr. Boehner's Ohio district and restored money for a Clinton-era program that helps communities hire added police officers.
Mr. Boehner said legislative setbacks are the price of allowing legislation to be hammered out on the floor in contrast to past Republican and Democratic efforts to assure the outcome before the vote was held.
''I'm committed to an open process around here, and when you have an open process it is not going to always go the way the way the leaders want,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''This is a new way of doing business in the House. I'm totally comfortable with it.''
But Mr. Boehner indicated he would not be comfortable with a failure to reach agreement with the Senate and White House on substantially reducing spending this year.
Lack of a deal could lead to a series of short-term measures that keep federal spending at current levels, a prospect Mr. Boehner called ''not sufficient.'' Another potential outcome is a spending impasse that would lead federal agencies to shut their doors, which Mr. Boehner said he did not favor.
He accused Democrats of rooting for a shutdown in the hope that it would boomerang politically on Republicans.
''It appears that the Democrats are cheering and hoping for a government shutdown,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It is not our goal. Our goal is to cut spending, not shut down the government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker John A. Boehner, center, at a news conference on Tuesday, discussed spending cuts put forth by Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (94%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



456 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
WITH LID OFF IN EGYPT,
Workers Press Demands
Egyptian workers and the country's military chiefs squared off again on Wednesday as strikes and labor protests spread to the Cairo airport and Egypt's largest textile factory, despite pleas by the military for people to get back to work.
PAGE A15 
Warships Seen as Provocation A4
National
SOUTH DAKOTA SHELVES BILL
Expanding Justified Killing
A state bill to expand the definition of justifiable homicide in South Dakota to include killing someone in the defense of an unborn child was postponed indefinitely, following an uproar over whether the legislation would put abortion providers at greater risk. PAGE A18
WAIVERS ON HEALTH LAW
The Obama administration said that it had granted broad waivers to four states allowing health insurance companies to continue offering less generous benefits than they would otherwise be required to provide consumers this year under the new federal health care law. PAGE A22
FLORIDA REJECTS RAIL PLAN
Gov. Rick Scott of Florida rejected plans for a high-speed link between Tampa and Orlando, in the process turning down more than $2 billion in federal money and dealing the most significant blow yet to the Obama administration's vision of a national high-speed rail network. PAGE A20
New York
COMPLAINTS SAID TO DELAY
Security Plans for Statue
Because of concerns from federal and city police, a new security plan for the Statue of Liberty has been delayed, according to several people familiar with the plan. The officials, who said they received complaints from the United States Park Police officers who guard the statue, said they were not yet comfortable with the proposed changes, which include moving the visitor-screening operations to Ellis Island. PAGE A27
Business
FED EXPECTS GROWTH,
But Little on Jobs
Policy makers at the Federal Reserve substantially upgraded their forecasts for how much the economy would grow this year, though they expected unemployment to remain painfully high for some time. PAGE B1
MAKING PHONES STAND OUT
In the era of touch screens, how do phones stand out from the crowd when most phones are near-identical glassy rectangles? To get attention, hardware makers are finding ways to appeal to buyers less interested in particulars like processor speeds than in what applications the devices can run. PAGE B1
GOOGLE'S SUBSCRIPTION PLAN
A day after Apple stirred up online publishers by announcing a digital subscription plan that some called restrictive and financially burdensome, Google introduced Google One Pass, its payment service for digital content that aims to be more friendly to publishers. PAGE B4
Sports
PUJOLS AND CARDINALS DECIDE
To Call Off Contract Talks
After 10 years as the face of the Cardinals and three Most Valuable Player Awards, Albert Pujols will complete an eight-year, $111 million deal, earning $16 million this season. But Pujols and the team decided to call off talks for a new deal, in negotiations both sides called amicable but unfruitful. PAGE B13
Lance Armstrong Retires B14
Arts
WORLD VIEWS ON DISPLAY
At Berlin Festival
This year's Berlin International Film Festival got off to a topical start last week by calling attention to a conspicuously absent juror, the imprisoned Iranian filmmaker Jafar Panahi. A good number of the films that show up at the Berlinale every year share the sociopolitical concerns of Mr. Panahi's work. PAGE C1
VOTING FOR TECHNICAL OSCARS
The biggest stumbling blocks for Oscar voters are often the technical categories: sound design, makeup, editing, art direction. That's true even for veteran members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, who find it just as hard to predict the best sound mixer as viewers at home. PAGE C1
Home
SHOWING SNOW
Who's Boss
The tough winter in the Northeast provided an opportunity to test new snow removal products that cause less damage to the environment than salt or sand. PAGE D1
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A31
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (72%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (72%); HOMICIDE (71%); ABORTION (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (66%); ATHLETES (60%); PUBLISHING (60%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (55%); SPORTS AWARDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (81%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%); RICK SCOTT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



457 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Canadians Who Still Have Fun Being Somber

BYLINE: By DAVID BELCHER

 BODY:
Haunted songs by the Cowboy Junkies like ''Lonely Sinking Feeling'' and ''To Love Is to Bury'' won't be turning up on ''Glee'' one day, but this band has turned somber into a mysterious sort of success for 25 years.
The Cowboy Junkies' music is moody and often solemn, and this Canadian alt-country group is best known for its slow, stripped-down covers of classics by Bruce Springsteen, the Rolling Stones, Neil Young and Townes van Zandt, among others, sung in Margo Timmins's ethereal smoke-and-honey voice. In 1988 the band scored a minor hit, its only one, with a reinterpretation of ''Sweet Jane,'' written by Lou Reed, from its second album, ''The Trinity Session'' (RCA), which went on to sell more than a million copies in the United States and two million in Canada. 
But while countless other 1980s bands have fizzled out or disappeared after far greater success, the Junkies still pack clubs throughout North America and Europe about 75 times a year, thanks to a cultish, Deadhead-like following that seems to surprise outsiders.
''We never bought into the rock 'n' roll lifestyle by moving to New York or Los Angeles,'' said Michael Timmins, the lead guitarist (and Margo's brother), who writes the band's original music and lyrics. He, like his band mates, still lives in Canada. ''We've just always made music, which is what we love to do. It's kind of pathetic and really boring. Maybe part of that is being Canadian.''
And now a band whose story seems to define quiet survival has seen its profile expand. Last week it played two sold-out shows in New York, performed at the Neil Young tribute concert at Carnegie Hall along with Patti Smith and the Roots, and recently appeared on ''Late Night With Jimmy Fallon.'' And on Tuesday it released ''Demons'' (Latent Records), a tribute to the singer-songwriter Vic Chesnutt, who died at 45 in 2009, and the second in the band's four-album Nomad Series being released over the next year or so.
''There's no other band that can stay that quiet and that dynamic at the same time,'' said Ryan Adams, the alternative country singer who performed on 2007's ''Trinity Revisited'' (Cooking Vinyl), a CD and DVD package that recreated ''The Trinity Session'' song for song. ''They create tension by not adding tension. I sort of imagine them living in an attic in a library in Canada or something.''
The band's long-running Web site is a big reason the group is still thriving. It's a community center for fans and a clearinghouse for hundreds of ''bootleg'' recordings and Web-only downloads. Fans can stream free online or pay for individual song downloads or entire concert recordings. When they join the e-mail list, they receive three free downloads and for a one-time subscription fee of $150 they receive 300 of them.
The site also features intimate blog entries written mostly by the introverted Mr. Timmins (he wrote last week with mixed feelings about four jam-packed days in New York), early sketches of music and lyrics, and anatomies of albums from concept to finished product. The band encourages (and sells) the bootlegs -- many of which are recorded by a fan known as Cookie Bob. (He brought the band a batch of ginger cookies years ago.)
''They really show the fans the writing and recording process, and these are educated fans who know a lot of music and music history,'' said Jason Lent of Las Vegas, a fan of 17 years who followed the band around for four months last year after quitting his job. ''Whether it's sneaking a few fans into a sound check or coming out after a show to greet fans, the band genuinely wants to share its music.''
The Junkies had been planning to record an album with Chesnutt, who was partially paralyzed in a car accident in 1983, but he died after an overdose of muscle relaxants. ''One of the hopes of this album is that it inspires people to seek out the originals and keep his music alive,'' Mr. Timmins said. ''We had intended to do an album where he would write the songs, and we would be the band. Now we're trying to fulfill a bit of that desire.''
Michael, Margo, their brother Peter Timmins (on drums) and the bassist Alan Anton, a childhood friend, grew up in Montreal. Years of playing together as teen-agers eventually evolved into Cowboy Junkies, and the band developed a following on the Queen Street West scene in Toronto. (The band has played for more than 20 years with the solo artist Jeff Bird, who adds mandolin, harmonica, violin and other instruments.)
After ''The Trinity Session'' the Junkies released a series of modestly successful albums, including ''The Caution Horses'' in 1990 on RCA and 1996's ''Lay It Down'' (Geffen), which speak to the changing of seasons, small-town gossip and tragedy, and an almost Southern Gothic approach to life and death.
After the band left Geffen in 1998, the Junkies moved to independent labels and built their own Web site, message boards and an online store, and they embraced social networking with the arrival of Friendster. Many of their covers -- they smooth out the twang on the Rolling Stones' ''Dead Flowers'' and pump up the bluesy guitar on Mr. Young's ''Cortez the Killer,'' for example -- are exclusive to the Web site.
''We are more about relating to our audiences than what the labels wanted us to be,'' Michael Timmins said, referring, in part, to the band's embrace of fan bootlegs. ''That's why we've survived. We might have had more economic success, but then I don't think we'd still be around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, the drummer Peter Timmins, the bassist Alan Anton, the vocalist Margo Timmins and the songwriter and lead guitarist Michael Timmins of Cowboy Junkies, who have a new album. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SONG WRITING (78%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



458 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; JACKSON HEIGHTS JOURNAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: The Fate of a Patch of Open Space Stirs Anger and Accusations

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
Residents in densely populated Jackson Heights, Queens, are so desperate for public green spaces that they recently temporarily closed down a blocklong section of 78th Street and laid down clumps of synthetic grass bought, on Craigslist, from a suburban house in New Jersey.
That desperation has come into sharp relief in recent weeks, as residents have reacted angrily to proposals by the private Garden School to sell an athletic field to a private developer with plans to build a high-rise apartment building on the site. 
In a battle that has prompted accusations of nepotism and financial mismanagement, the unremarkable 29,000-square-foot field has become emblematic of how the financial crisis has buffeted already struggling private schools across New York and the country.
The controversy arose in January after trustees of the 87-year-old Garden School, which has a debt of more than $2 million, rejected a $4.8 million offer from the city for the field, on the grounds that it could take up to two years for the financing to be approved, time the trustees said the school and its students could not afford. Even when the city two weeks ago increased its offer to $6.8 million, more than the developer's offer of $5.4 million, the board appeared unmoved, wanting the money up front.
The city, said the mayor's office, wants to use the field to expand nearby Travers Park, Jackson Heights' only park, which is scarcely longer than a football field. It also said the process would take less than two years.
The decision by the school has attracted the anger of parents, environmental groups and members of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office. They have banded together, with many accusing the tidy red-brick school of chronic mismanagement, willful elitism and short-sightedness. The debate over the field, in a multiethnic neighborhood peppered with sari shops and Peruvian chicken joints, has touched on issues of class and ethnicity.
The mayor's office said Wednesday that Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson would meet with the school's board this week to try to persuade it to reconsider the city's offer. Meanwhile, many local parents have dug into their own pockets and raised $260,000 to try to keep the field out of private hands. But so far, the school has refused their loan.
''If the school sells to developers, it will kill the school, as who on earth will pay $15,500 tuition to send their kid to a school without a playground?'' asked Will Sweeney, a film producer, who is leading the drive to save the field. He said he was motivated by the desire for an expansive green patch where his 2-year-old, Malcolm, could play. ''Someone needs to ask how the school got to this point financially,'' he added.
But Michael Rakosi, vice president of the school's board of trustees, argued that chalk, teachers and computers could not be paid for with the city's promises. Moreover, he said, the residents shouting the loudest did not send their children to his school.
Disagreeing with criticism that Garden School, most of whose students are not from Jackson Heights, was out of touch with the community, he said that the school served dozens of ethnic groups from across Queens, and that many students received financial aid.
''I would happily sell to the city tomorrow, but they haven't paid a nickel,'' said Mr. Rakosi, who works in real estate. ''I can't pay my teachers based on promises. My responsibility is to 300 little kids.''
Arthur Gruen, president of Garden's Board of Trustees, said the financial downturn had contributed to enrollment falling to 240 students this year, from 330 in 2009. ''There has been no financial mismanagement,'' he said.
But some parents of students at the school said that mismanagement preceded the financial crisis, and that a sudden rise in tuition in 2009 had led to the departure of many students, and that the problem had been made worse by a lack of investment and meager fund-raising efforts.
According to the school's financial statements, the school has four outstanding loans amounting to $2.25 million, including two loans totaling $1 million that it took out in 2009 -- at an interest rate of 12.99 percent -- from Precision Financial, a loan and mortgage company based on Long Island, which has since gone out of business, and whose chief executive was Mark Rosenbloom, Mr. Rakosi's nephew. Mr. Rosenbloom could not be reached by phone.
Mr. Sweeney was adamant that the school could have received loans with better terms. But Mr. Rakosi said the loan from his nephew's company was the most favorable at the time and had been secured with the support and knowledge of the board.
Why a single athletic field in Queens has unleashed such a maelstrom might seem mysterious. But the hunger for green space here is strong. New York City has more than 28,000 acres of municipal parkland, with roughly one-quarter of it in Queens. But Jackson Heights, built in the 1920s and 1930s as an idyllic garden city, has long since given way to concrete and sprawl.
Even Travers Park, the only one in the neighborhood, is largely covered in concrete.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Garden School's athletic field. In an area with scant open space, the idea of an apartment building here dismayed many nearby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DENSITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); MAYORS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (72%); APPROVALS (67%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011



459 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25B

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: In Napa, Where the Downturn Is Measured Glass by Glass

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
On a recent sunny afternoon in the Napa Valley, the good life was much in evidence. Shoppers strolled down the sidewalks of charming downtown St. Helena. Tourists filled patio tables outside the Bouchon Bakery in Yountville, nibbling on Thomas Keller's famous French macarons. Waiters popped cork after cork at crowded restaurants.
Beneath this cheery facade, however, vineyards and wineries -- the backbone of the local economy -- are facing a challenging time. 
Many factors are involved, but perhaps the most important comes down to this: glass vs. bottle.
When the recession hit, a growing number of cost-conscious American diners began buying wine by the glass, rather than by the bottle.
''Customers have been turning toward wine by the glass for several years, but in 2009, the shift was drastic,'' Barbara Insel, president of Stonebridge Research Group in St. Helena, wrote in a new study. For her research, Ms. Insel's group surveyed 50 top managers in the wine trade.
The concept of selling quality wines by the glass dates to 1987 as a way to persuade connoisseurs to try Napa's Opus One red, which sold for $50 a bottle -- very expensive for that time.
But today's by-the-glass trend is driven not by producers, but by diners looking to save money. Buying less-expensive wines a glass at a time has pushed wine revenues in full-service restaurants down as much as 50 percent (dining revenues have dropped about 20 percent).
In response to the new per-glass reality, a growing number of restaurants have gone ''alla spina'' -- serving wine from kegs -- contributing further to the backlog of bottles at restaurants and distributors. The higher-priced wines sitting on the shelf that sold for around $90 had their prices slashed, and most new orders have been for less-expensive bottles selling for $40 to $60.
Wine sales have also declined in stores, down 15 percent to 20 percent in the spring of 2010 from the fall of 2008, according to the study. The drop has led to an inventory glut and a focus on carrying more commercially popular brands that cost under $20 a bottle.
These trends have affected California's wine industry, which by some estimates accounts for 70 percent of all wine sold in the United States.
Because Napa is home to some of the nation's highest-quality wines, especially cabernet sauvignons that once readily sold for $100 or more per bottle, the area has been especially hard hit.
Some winemakers are now producing fewer bottles in an effort to keep demand high, while others are producing more lower-priced wines.
Ms. Insel said some winemakers who had failed to adapt to the times were learning a tough lesson. ''It's easier to make wine than to sell it,'' she said.
Still, some are prospering, even in the recession.
Katrina Kirkham, whose family owns Casa Nuestra Winery and Vineyards in St. Helena, said her business had avoided the shifting economic winds.
With its quirky tasting room decorated in Elvis memorabilia (Presley's 1961 movie ''Wild in the Country'' was filmed on the property), Casa Nuestra is known for its Dry Chenin Blanc, a rare wine, bottling only 2,200 cases a year. ''We're sold out,'' Ms. Kirkham said. ''We never have enough.''
Having such a niche and selling wine almost exclusively on the premises has helped shelter the winery from plummeting retail store and restaurant pricing. The next batch of chenin blanc, arriving in March, will sell for about $30 a bottle, an upscale price for a white wine.
While the wine market remains challenging, the number of visitors to Napa's wine country has stayed steady and tourism is ''recovering more quickly than the rest of the country,'' said Nancy Levenberg, chief executive and president of the St. Helena Chamber of Commerce.
Additionally, Mother Nature delivered a cooler-than-normal summer last year, which resulted in a modest grape crop, according to the crush report released last week by the California Department of Food and Agriculture. That is good news: a bumper crop would have flooded the market with grapes to further drive down prices and profits.
But not all is left to fate. As a way to improve business, trade associations are working to change laws in 10 states that currently prevent wine sales in grocery stores. Victory could mean new customers for Napa wines.
The outlook is decidedly mixed, but veteran winemakers say the wine business has never been quite as idyllic as it seems on the surface.
''There's an old saying,'' Ms. Kirkham said. ''What's the fastest way to a million dollars in the wine business? Start with two.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); TRENDS (89%); WINERIES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (76%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (74%); BAKERIES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



460 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Factory Data Offsets Rise in Jobless Claims

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks finished higher on Thursday after a strong manufacturing report overshadowed a bigger-than-expected rise in the number of people applying for unemployment benefits.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said its index of manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic region nearly doubled between January and February. The surge in manufacturing was enough to offset a Labor Department report that applications for unemployment benefits rose 25,000 from the previous week. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 29.97 points, or 0.24 percent, to 12,318.14. The Dow has been rising steadily this month, with only three down days in February. For the month, it's up 3.6 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 4.11 points, or 0.31 percent, to 1,340.43. The Nasdaq composite gained 6.02 points, or 0.21 percent, to 2,831.58.
''The initial jobless claims data look disappointing,'' said Anthony Chan, chief economist at JPMorgan Private Wealth Management. ''But from a longer-term perspective we're seeing a pickup in employment.''
Mr. Chan said the most recent data appeared to be bad compared with the previous week, when claims for unemployment benefits fell to the lowest level since July 2008. But that was partly a result of winter weather in many parts of the country that closed government offices and kept people from applying for benefits.
The government also reported that consumer prices in January were slightly higher than forecast, largely a result of rising food and gas prices. The Consumer Price Index rose 0.4 percent. The core index, which excludes food and energy costs, looked relatively tame, rising 0.2 percent.
Forecasters had expected to see the price index rise 0.3 percent last month, and the core index inch up 0.1 percent.
Barrick Gold, Duke Energy and J. M. Smucker all rose after reporting stronger earnings results.
Barrick, a gold mining company, posted an increase in quarterly profit, helped by higher production and lower costs. Its stock gained 1.9 percent.
Duke Energy's net income grew 23 percent, helped by gains from selling assets and rising customer demand. Duke gained 2.4 percent.
Profit fell at J.M. Smucker, maker of Jif peanut butter and Folgers coffee, but still beat analysts' expectations. The company also raised its earnings outlook for the year. Smucker rose 4.2 percent.
Coca-Cola gained 1.8 percent after it announced that it had increased its dividend.
The increase in claims for unemployment benefits and the continuing turmoil in the Middle East attracted investors to the relative safety of United States government debt.
In the credit markets, United States Treasury prices moved higher.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 13/32, to 100 14/32, and the yield fell to 3.57 percent from 3.62 percent Wednesday.
The dollar fell against other major currencies, however.
The euro rose to $1.3604 late Thursday, from $1.3567 late Wednesday. The British pound rose to $1.6174, from $1.6092 Wednesday.
The dollar index, which compares the United States dollar against six currencies, fell 0.28 percent Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); NUT & PEANUT BUTTER MFG (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); GOLD MINING (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); BOND MARKETS (62%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (53%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); DUK (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



461 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: China Rail Chief's Firing Hints at Trouble With High-Speed Trains

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES and KEITH BRADSHER; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong. Jonathan Kaiman contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- In his seven years as chief of the Chinese Railways Ministry, Liu Zhijun built a commercial and political colossus that spanned continents and elevated the lowly train to a national symbol of pride and technological prowess.
His abrupt sacking by the Communist Party is casting that empire in a decidedly different light, raising doubts not only about Mr. Liu's stewardship and the corruption that dogs China's vast public-works projects, but also, perhaps, the safety, financial soundness and long-term viability of a rail system that has captured the world's attention.
Mr. Liu, 58, was fired Saturday and is being investigated by the party's disciplinary committee for ''severe violations of discipline,'' a euphemism for corruption. His high government rank -- minister-level officials are rarely fired under such a cloud -- hints at far deeper dissatisfaction with one of China's most publicized and sweeping domestic initiatives. 
Until last week, Mr. Liu had led China's program to lace the nation with nearly 8,100 miles of high-speed rail lines and to build more than 11,000 miles of traditional railroad lines. The sheer size and cost of the endeavor -- the investment has been estimated at $750 billion, some $395 billion for high-speed rail alone -- has led experts to compare it to the transcontinental railroad that opened the American West.
President Obama hailed China's program in his State of the Union address and called for the United States to move quickly on high-speed rail plans that had been repeatedly delayed by budget concerns and political infighting.
Whatever their problems with Mr. Liu, Chinese officials indicated this week that the high-speed rail project would proceed with the government's full support. But they have not explained why they summarily fired the leader of one of their signature projects.
There are some clues in top officials' public statements since the scandal broke. Speaking on Monday in Beijing, the official who is believed to be the country's new railways chief, Sheng Guangzu, said the ministry would ''place quality and safety at the center of construction projects.'' For good measure, he added that safety was his highest priority.
The statement underscored concerns in some quarters that Mr. Liu cut corners in his all-out push to extend the rail system and to keep the project on schedule and within its budget. No accidents have been reported on the high-speed rail network, but reports suggest that construction quality may at times have been shoddy.
A person with ties to the ministry said that the concrete bases for the system's tracks were so cheaply made, with inadequate use of chemical hardening agents, that trains would be unable to maintain their current speeds of about 217 miles per hour for more than a few years. In as little as five years, lower speeds, possibly below about 186 miles per hour, could be required as the rails become less straight, the expert said.
Strong concrete pillars require a large dose of high-quality fly ash, the byproduct of burning coal. But the speed of construction has far exceeded the available supply, according to a 2008 study by a Chinese railway design institute.
Such problems, the expert said, are caused by a combination of tight controls that have kept China's costs far below Western levels and a strong aversion to buying higher-quality but more expensive equipment from foreign suppliers.
As expensive as it is, China's high-speed rail network has been built far more cheaply than similar projects in the West and in Japan. A mile of rail here costs roughly $15 million; in the United States, estimates peg the price at anywhere between $40 million to $80 million.
Japanese officials have already made an issue of the potential safety problems in the Chinese high-speed rail network. Yoshiyuki Kasai, the chairman of the Central Japan Railway Company, which runs Japan's fastest bullet train, told The Financial Times last year that the Chinese were running trains based on Japan's designs, but at speeds 25 percent faster.
''I don't think they are paying the same attention to safety that we are,'' he said. ''Pushing it that close to the limit is something we would absolutely never do.''
Some of the criticism may be signs of envy that China has achieved so much at a speed and cost that other countries cannot match. Many multinational companies also resent China for tweaking foreign designs and building the equipment itself rather than importing it.
China's high-speed rail network is already the world's largest and among its fastest, and more lines are being built. Passenger rail traffic leapt to 1.68 billion trips last year, up 9.9 percent from 2009.
A new line from Beijing to Shanghai is scheduled to be finished by year's end. It will whisk passengers across a distance equal to a trip between New York and Atlanta in less than five hours. Amtrak trains require 18 hours for the journey.
The effort's success has earned admiration worldwide and had turned Mr. Liu into a global salesman for Chinese rail technology. In recent years he and others have sealed deals or opened talks for rail projects in Iran, Russia, Bulgaria, Turkey and elsewhere, including in California.
But projects of this scale in China inevitably involve corruption, and Mr. Liu's downfall suggests that the Railways Ministry is by no means an exception.
Reports in the Chinese press suggest that a broad inquiry into ministry corruption is under way. The business journal Caixin reported that Ding Shumiao, who leads a conglomerate in Shanxi Province, was being investigated in connection with a contract to supply noise barriers along high-speed rail lines.
The Economic Observer reported last month that Communist Party disciplinary officials had detained Luo Jinbao, a former Railways Ministry official who also had led two state-controlled companies involved in rail logistics. The ministry is building 18 modern rail-shipping centers across China.
Neither case has been officially linked to Mr. Liu's dismissal. But The Economic Observer, citing an unnamed Shanxi coal-mining executive, said that Mr. Luo had brought Ms. Ding and Mr. Liu together in 2000.
Two people with ties to the ministry said this week that the inquiry into Mr. Liu involved the ministry's purchase of noise-reduction barriers for high-speed rail, which could point to Ms. Ding's company. Both people refused to be identified out of fear that they would damage their access to ministry officials.
Railroad finances are yet another worry. Analysts have warned that the construction schedule ordered by Mr. Liu threatens to push the ministry's debt -- already $170 billion last fall -- to an unsustainable level.
A 2010 analysis by China Minsheng Bank, reported this week by Caijing, found that the ministry's debts equaled 56 percent of its assets and could reach $455 billion, or 70 percent of its assets, by 2020. In his last months on the job, Mr. Liu had begun an aggressive program to deal with the debt by selling stakes in the railway to investors like large state-controlled banks.
The Minsheng report suggested that the high-speed network may remain a money-loser for the next 20 years, despite heavy use. Ticket prices -- several times those for a conventional train -- have led to a backlash among some Chinese.
The timing of Mr. Liu's dismissal may be significant: He was fired at the end of China's Lunar New Year holiday, when trains are jammed, tickets are scalped at exorbitant prices and passengers are angriest.
The Communist Party has long worried that corruption may undermine its credibility with the public. But outside analysts agree that high-level officials are seldom sacked for corruption alone, in part because kickbacks, favoritism and other below-board activities are so common.
Russell Leigh Moses, a scholar of the Chinese leadership, said that Mr. Liu's dismissal could signal disquiet over whether expansion of the rail system had gone too far, too fast.
''You don't take someone down at that level of status unless they've done something really egregious,'' said Mr. Moses, who works in Beijing. ''I don't know whether it's politics or policy. But I wouldn't rule out the second.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Liu Zhijun was the public face of China's high-speed rail. He was dismissed on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STIAN LYSBERG SOLUM/SCANPIX, VIA A.P.) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TRAINS (78%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (78%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



462 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: After a Stagnant 12 Months, the N.B.A. Faces Its Own Labor Countdown

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Before they can celebrate Derrick Rose's ascendance, Kevin Durant's dominance or Blake Griffin's hang time, the N.B.A.'s brightest minds and brightest players will gather in a hotel conference room and beg one another not to ruin it all.
For the next three days in downtown Los Angeles, the N.B.A. will do what it does best -- promote itself, in bold, boisterous strokes. This year's All-Star party will be staged at Staples Center, home to a dunking virtuoso (Griffin) and the defending champions (the Lakers).
The show begins Friday night with the rookie-sophomore game. On Saturday, Griffin will be the top attraction, as the favorite in the dunk competition. The All-Star Game is Sunday. The Carmelo Anthony trade drama will be ever present.
One meeting may overshadow it all. 
Early Friday afternoon, the lead negotiators for the N.B.A. and the players union will hold a bargaining session in Beverly Hills -- the latest attempt to break a 12-month stalemate on a new labor deal.
There has been no meaningful movement, and no expectation that anything will change Friday. Conditions will be less than ideal. The union has invited all of the All-Star players to attend. The league has invited every owner. There could be 60 people in the room -- hardly a setting for serious negotiations.
Meanwhile, the clock is ticking ever more loudly. The parties have until June 30 to reach a deal or risk a lockout -- an eventuality that the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, has called 99 percent certain.
''I wouldn't say that I'm 99 percent sure,'' the Atlanta Hawks' Etan Thomas, a member of the union's executive committee, said this week at a celebrity bowling tournament in Manhattan to benefit the John Starks Foundation. ''I would say we have a really long way to go.''
Owners are proposing a fundamental overhaul of the N.B.A.'s economic system, including a hard salary cap, shorter contracts and a 38 percent reduction in player salaries (about $800 million). The players want to retain the existing soft-cap system -- which permits teams to exceed the salary cap under certain circumstances -- with a few modest concessions. Each side has dismissed the other's proposal as a nonstarter. Although both parties advocate more revenue sharing among teams, they view that issue through different prisms.
With four and a half months to go, the urgency is real.
''I think the clock needs to start now,'' said Adam Silver, the N.B.A.'s deputy commissioner. Referring to Friday's meeting, he said: ''I don't have any expectation that we'll make any substantive progress. But hopefully we can start to build the trust that will ultimately be required to get a deal done.''
In some respect, the N.B.A. is following in the staggered footsteps of the N.F.L., which recently had to balance the pageantry of the Super Bowl with its own sobering labor talks. The N.F.L.'s collective bargaining agreement expires March 4; a lockout appears likely.
Although the two leagues are grappling with fundamentally different issues, each has a vested interest in the other's conflict.
The N.F.L. has sued its players union to prevent decertification. The National Basketball Players Association is also considering decertification in case negotiations fail. A ruling in the N.F.L. case could affect the N.B.A.
''I think in some ways they are laying out the blueprint of what the N.B.A. and the N.B.A. players association might go through,'' said Gabe Feldman, the director of sports law at Tulane, who is following labor talks in both leagues.
The N.B.A. could take notes on many things, including legal proceedings and public-relations strategy.
''I think the N.B.A. and the N.B.P.A. can sort of go to school on what's happening right now'' in the N.F.L., Feldman said. He added, ''There are certainly different pressure points for each, but the general strategy we're seeing could be the same.''
The major sports leagues have often taken cues from one another, and borrow from one another's economic systems. The N.F.L. is now pushing for a rookie wage scale, something the N.B.A. instituted in 1995. The N.B.A. wants a hard cap, which the N.F.L. adopted in 1994.
''One thing we would like to borrow from the N.F.L. is to turn this into a profitable league,'' Silver said wryly.
Some N.B.A. owners are also advocating an N.F.L.-style franchise tag to keep star players from becoming free agents. That proposal is not yet on the table, however.
''I've had a lot of N.B.A. teams that have called and asked me about the concept of a franchise tag and how that works,'' said the agent Mark Bartelstein, whose firm, Priority Sports and Entertainment, represents N.F.L. and N.B.A. players.
Bartelstein said he had also heard from N.F.L. executives inquiring about the N.B.A.'s rookie scale.
''What people tend to do is they cherry-pick the things that they like from different leagues,'' Bartelstein said.
He added, ''I think there's some momentum from a deal being done in one league to a deal being done in the other.''
The nation's economic problems have played a role in both labor showdowns. Those pressures are more acute in the N.B.A., which says it is losing more than $300 million a year. According to Forbes magazine, 17 of 30 franchises lost money last year. N.B.A. officials say the number is actually higher and have given audited financial records to the union to back up that contention. The players union disputes the league's figures.
Outwardly, the N.B.A. appears healthy. Attendance is up, modestly (by .72 percent), and the league is on pace for its highest viewership ever on TNT (up 33 percent) and ESPN (up 20 percent). Local broadcasts have also shown big increases.
But league officials say that the cost of doing business -- selling tickets, maintaining arenas, promoting the games and signing players -- has also gone up.
The N.B.A.'s proposed solution, a hard cap and a rollback in salaries, echoes the strategy taken by the N.H.L., which sacrificed the 2004-5 season to gain those concessions. That labor deal expires next year. Major League Baseball's expires in December. Of the four leagues, Feldman says the N.B.A. is the most likely to lose games to a labor stoppage, because its owners are seeking the most drastic changes. ''The N.B.A. is the diciest,'' he said, adding, ''That wouldn't shock me to see some of their games canceled.''
For now, N.B.A. players and league officials are trying to maintain a sunny outlook. Silver said that although there had been no change in the two sides' positions, ''there may have been some softening of positions.'' Maurice Evans, a member of the union's executive committee, said he believed both sides ''have had nothing but good intentions.''
The positive feelings may or may not last through the weekend. It seems doubtful they will last through June.
''We're goal posts away,'' Thomas said, invoking a football analogy to describe basketball's labor divide. ''End zone to end zone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); LOCKOUTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); SPORTS REVENUES (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



463 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Rest and Reflections Far From Campaign Glare

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Election Day will bring more losers than winners, with most candidates winding up exhausted and debt-ridden footnotes whose emotional investments were greater than their financial ones.
Campaigns are brutal -- something like a six-month drug binge -- and the verdict of democracy's marketplace can be harsh. That's why I tracked down a temporary resident of Buenos Aires for reflections on the process and, unavoidably, on himself.
''You walk down the street and nobody has any idea whom you are,'' a seemingly relieved Alexi Giannoulias said by phone (and, later, Skype). ''And I missed the blizzard. The weather here is pretty nice and helps you to put things in perspective.'' 
Mr. Giannoulias, 34, was, of course, the Democratic candidate for President Obama's old United States Senate seat lost to the Republican Mark Steven Kirk. It was an expensive and untidy campaign, with bountiful TV ads depicting Mr. Giannoulias as ethically-tainted by his family-owned bank and Mr. Kirk as a liar with a creative resume.
The news media also focused on the bank's tribulations and on Mr. Kirk's fencing with the truth. And while Mr. Kirk formally outspent his rival by several million dollars, he also benefited from millions in so-called independent expenditures, which flooded Illinois, including money from groups tied to Karl Rove.
There was great pressure on Mr. Giannoulias, then the state treasurer. It was exacerbated by the Democrats' high stakes in retaining the seat, the well-reported White House belief that State Attorney General Lisa Madigan would be a stronger opponent for Mr. Kirk, the unpredicted Tea Party boomlet, and by the undisguised sense among many in the news media that a bright, glib and wealthy young man had somehow come too far too fast and deserved a comeuppance.
Mr. Giannoulias, a competitive, former pro basketball player, displayed grace during his concession to Mr. Kirk. There wasn't a public trace of what he concedes was deep disappointment.
So while Mr. Kirk was off to a rancorous Congressional debate about the nation's fiscal woes, there was a not-insignificant loser's prize for Mr. Giannoulias: the chance to regain his sanity.
His last day as treasurer was Jan. 10. On Jan. 20 he headed to Buenos Aires, alone, since one casualty of the campaign was his engagement. He's renting a place, dabbling with micro finance ventures on behalf of a few organizations and, most of all, exercising a lot and writing the draft of a book on his election experiences while he decides what's next.
There are worse hideaways. Buenos Aires is gorgeous and fun, the Paris of South America (I'm biased, with relatives there), and he'd been there once before.
''It's an absolutely incredible city, a European city with amazing food, great weather and incredible culture,'' Mr. Giannoulias said. ''I lived in Greece for a few years, and the Greek people are similar; caring and warm.''
Sean Conlon, a Chicago real estate executive, visited his Gold Coast neighbor in Argentina and said he found him in remarkably good spirits, ''in a reflective mood but having lost none of his competitive spirit.''
They played soccer in a park, once with ''some 8-year-old kid who was better than us and an 80-year-old tango teacher who joined in.'' At night, Mr. Conlon said they had the best steaks he'd ever eaten and lots of good, inexpensive bottles of Malbec.
Amid the apparent therapeutic anonymity, Mr. Giannoulias mulls lessons of the campaign and whether to indulge the craving of prospective publishers for inside material and potential newsworthy score-settling.
For sure, there was the occasional now-humorous event -- like being caught in a western Illinois blizzard, ''doing a complete 360 on a highway and landing in a ditch; a metaphor for the campaign,'' he said. ''We took our hits but kept on working.''
There was also the unrelenting assault on the bank -- ''I have thick skin but when your family name is tarnished, it is difficult'' -- and constantly dialing for dollars rather than talking to voters. His larger lesson, he said, was the realization that more young people, who can be both progressive and business-savvy, somehow need to be brought into the system.
Mr. Giannoulias, who said he voted on an absentee ballot for Rahm Emanuel, will return to Chicago next month. Until then, he relishes an Argentina undergoing an economic comeback and with a more civil political process; boxing matches versus our knife fights, he said.
Hey, given the current mess in Congress, maybe it's better to be a tourist in a land returning from the brink than to be holding a leadership role in a country being brought to the brink.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); BASKETBALL (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); MICROFINANCE (50%)

PERSON: MARK STEVEN KIRK (79%); LISA MADIGAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



464 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Appears Tame As Consumer Prices Rise

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Higher energy costs helped push up consumer prices in the United States last month, according to government statistics released on Thursday, but inflation remained subdued. Economists said the new data showed that the risk of a protracted decline in prices had receded.
The Labor Department said its Consumer Price Index was up a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in January, and showed a 1.6 percent rise over the previous 12 months. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected an increase of 0.3 percent in January. Rising energy prices also led to a rise in prices for December, when the index was up 0.4 percent, a revision based on seasonally adjusted data. 
In another report, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region rose to its highest level in seven years.
The Fed's business activity index rose to 35.9 in February, from 19.3 the month before. It was the highest reading since January 2004. Economists surveyed by Reuters had forecast a reading of 20.9.
Energy prices were the most striking feature of the Labor Department's price report for a second month. Gasoline was up 3.5 percent in January, compared with 6.7 percent in December. Fuel oil was up 6.8 percent in January after a 4.9 percent rise in December. Food rose 0.5 percent in January, a sharper rate than in the last several months.
''It is pretty clear that right now the worst of deflationary concerns are behind us,'' said Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company.
''There has been a rebound pretty much across the board,'' he added. ''Going forward, increases in commodity prices, improvements in the labor market and a stabilization in the housing component lends an upward bias to C.P.I. during the course of the year.''
The core index, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.2 percent in January and was up 1 percent for the previous 12 months. A 1 percent rise in apparel prices accounted for the acceleration in the core index, the figures showed.
Stuart Hoffman, the chief economist at PNC, said the core rate was ''a long way from the Fed's preferred range'' of about 2 percent or slightly lower.
''You can stop talking about deflation now,'' he said. ''The odds were always fairly low but now they are slim to none.''
He added, ''The debate will be how fast inflation is going to move up but I don't think it is going to meet or exceed 2 percent in the next couple of years.''
The concern about deflation was a principal factor behind the decision by the Federal Reserve in August to carry out its bond purchasing program.
On Wednesday, the minutes from the latest meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers indicated that the Fed saw a decreasing risk of deflation and that it now expected economic growth of 3.4 to 3.9 percent this year, up from the previous forecast of 3 to 3.6 percent.
Although food and energy prices have increased, the Fed minutes said, especially in fast-growing emerging markets, the committee did not have a consensus on whether that development would lead to higher inflation in the United States.
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has been adamant in saying that the Fed was ready and willing to curb inflation -- and could even raise interest rates at a moment's notice if it needed to.
On Wednesday, the Labor Department reported that producer prices in the United States rose in January. The core index, which excludes the volatile food and energy sectors, rose 0.5 percent, the biggest jump in 27 months, the agency said.
Food companies, retailers and manufacturers have begun warning that rising prices are expected to start hitting consumers, with economists forecasting inflation in the United States to run about 2.5 percent this year.
Economists have also been watching for any resurgence in hiring by companies, hoping that stronger consumer spending will help the recovery gain momentum. On Thursday, the Labor Department said the number of people filing for unemployment benefits rose to 410,000 in the most recent week, up 25,000 from the previous week. The figure is 10,000 higher than the consensus forecast of economists.
Prices for commodities, including cotton, corn, steel and copper, have surged in recent months. Global food prices hit record levels in January, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, and many emerging countries are taking steps to control inflation caused by those increases.
In Britain, inflation hit its highest level in two years when it reached an annual rate of 4 percent in January, above the Bank of England's inflation target of 2 percent, according to the Office for National Statistics. Higher commodity and energy prices and an increase in the sales tax were blamed.
China said this week that consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January, and many economists predict that China's inflation will not peak for two or three more months, forcing the government to take stronger measures that could slow economic growth.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEFLATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



465 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Legality of Health Mandate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Feb. 10 editorial ''A Debate Bigger Than Reform'' criticized my testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on the unconstitutionality of the individual insurance mandate. 
My testimony exclusively concerned why the individual mandate was outside existing Supreme Court doctrine, which limits Congress's power under the commerce clause and the necessary and proper clause to regulating or prohibiting economic activity.
Current doctrine has never recognized a power to compel the citizenry at large to engage in economic activity, a power Congress has never before claimed. Therefore, nothing in my testimony would ''fundamentally weaken'' or ''severely limit'' the current powers of Congress.
Congress has many constitutional ways to address the market distortions that are inflating the costs of both health care and health insurance. And, although I would oppose such a program, existing doctrine would allow Congress to impose a ''single payer'' tax-and-spending scheme like Medicare on everyone.
Randy E. Barnett Washington, Feb. 12, 2011
The writer is a professor of legal theory at Georgetown Law School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); WRITERS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); MEDICARE (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



466 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: As the Mideast Turmoil Spreads

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Tunisia. Egypt. Bahrain?,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, Feb. 17):
If growing unemployment, disparity and other economic factors could be the main contributors to the freedom movements in Tunisia and Egypt, what could be said about the latest events in Bahrain?
It is well known that Bahrain, the strategically located speck of a kingdom in the Persian Gulf, has been liberally providing its citizens all the modern comforts and amenities that could be only a dream for the masses in developing countries. 
Apparently, all that glitters is not gold, and the people of Bahrain want much more than the material comforts the kingdom's oil riches have bestowed upon them.
The people of Bahrain now want what the regime of the ruling Khalifa family can perhaps never afford to give despite its vast resources: the much-sought basic dignity in freedom through a democracy that is by far the overwhelming dream of almost every person deprived of human dignity and freedom.
Atul M. Karnik Woodside, Queens, Feb. 17, 2011
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof's Feb. 13 column, ''What Egypt Can Teach America,'' suggests four lessons to draw from America's foreign policy mistakes in the Middle East in the past decades. The fourth lesson would appear to be the most important: ''Let's live our values.''
It's disgraceful that in the past decades America has tried to force its own way of life on too many countries with different cultures and political systems. Let America try to straighten out its own imperfect democracy and inequitable social order first before it suggests anything to another country.
William McIntyre Aschaffenburg, Germany, Feb. 15, 2011
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman (''Pharaoh Without a Mummy,'' column, Feb. 16) has it right when he suggests that the United States government divert $100 million from our yearly contribution to Egypt's military to build world-class high schools in Egypt. That would be fitting acknowledgment of one of the most profound movements in human history.
Just as the great French Revolution of 1789 finally put to death the notion of the divine right of kings, this revolution of Egypt's youth has demonstrated for all the world that no government is legitimate that ignores the aspirations of its people.
Edward B. Cone New York, Feb. 16, 2011
To the Editor:
''A Tunisian-Egyptian Link That Shook Arab History'' (front page, Feb. 14) provided a rare look into the organizing and planning of youth activists in Egypt.
We know through our work with human rights advocates around the world that movements like the one in Egypt (Tunisia, Poland and Serbia before it) don't happen spontaneously. Principles of nonviolence are studied and applied, strategies are debated, and tactics are brainstormed, adapted and tried.
Human rights advocates living under oppressive regimes, where the threat of detention and torture is ever present, need more opportunities to learn from one another.
The United States can also do more to support nonviolent movements -- and those risking their lives -- by being a stronger voice and example against torture. We should never resort to torture and cruel treatment again, and we need to take a stronger stand against military allies who use brutal violence against their own citizens.
Nancy Pearson Manager New Tactics in Human Rights The Center for Victims of Torture St. Paul, Feb. 15, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) BAHRAIN (97%); EGYPT (96%); TUNISIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GULF STATES (92%); SERBIA (79%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



467 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Face Off for 7th Day in Yemen

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF; J. David Goodman contributed reporting from New York, and Alan Cowell from Paris.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- Yemeni police fired shots into the air on Thursday as thousands of demonstrators, some supporting President Ali Abdullah Saleh and some seeking his downfall, clashed for hours in central Sana, bombarding one another with a hailstorm of rocks on the seventh straight day of violent unrest here.
''There is no state, there is no state,'' the president's adversaries chanted as they set fire to two tires in the center of downtown Rabat Street, sending plumes of black smoke into the air in what seemed an escalation of the confrontation that drew in a broader cross-section of Yemeni society among the president's foes. 
For several hours, the two sides clashed before government supporters, wielding sticks and makeshift weapons, broke through and dispersed the antigovernment protesters who ended up taking refuge in the university.
The delicate position of the United States seemed as evident here as it was in places like Bahrain, where pro-American leaders are facing calls from adversaries on the street to make way for democratic change. The clamor has already toppled the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt, both close allies of Washington.
''We want Obama to take Saleh to America and lock him in a hotel in America,'' said one antigovernment protester in Sana on Thursday. Like others, the demonstrator identified himself by only his first name, Sultan, because of fear of retribution. He described himself as a 26-year-old, unemployed law graduate.
Others said they had modeled their protest on the examples of Tunisia and Egypt, where campaigners used social networking sites to propel their uprisings. ''We are turning into being like Tunisia, like Egypt,'' said Amjad, another antigovernment protester who said he was a 21-year-old media student.
Much of the region's protest has been inspired by economic unrest and a deep sense that long-entrenched regimes are not able to meet the aspirations of a new, educated generation. Some have also complained that pervasive corruption blocks their way to advancement.
''I graduated from university and I don't have job,'' said Hassan Al-Jawfy, 27. ''I offered my resume to many sectors of the government, and they said I had to pay money to get a job. This is the rule here.''
Mr. Saleh promised to step down in 2013 after earlier demonstrations, and opposition leaders had held off from street protests before this week as they awaited Mr. Saleh's reaction to new demands, including a promise that Mr. Saleh would not to pass power to one of his sons.
In the meantime, younger demonstrators impatient for change have taken to the streets, and for a week, Yemen's protest has evolved into daily clashes between opponents and supporters of the president.
About 2,000 antigovernment protesters hurled rocks as the president's supporters, gathered on bridges, bombarded them from above with stones.
Large numbers of police officers took up positions around the capital here on Wednesday in an attempt to end six days of running street battles between small groups of pro- and antigovernment protesters. On Thursday, police officers fired assault rifles into the air in a vain attempt to halt the clashes.
Mr. Saleh has attributed the effort to drive him and other regional leaders from office to ''foreign agendas,'' according to the state-run Saba news agency, quoting a telephone conversation between Mr. Saleh and the king of Bahrain, King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, who is also facing widespread street protests.
''There are schemes aimed at plunging the region into chaos and violence targeting the nation's security and the stability of its countries,'' Mr. Saleh told the king, the state agency reported.
In the southwestern city of Taiz on Wednesday, thousands of students who have occupied the streets in overnight protests that began a week ago vowed to remain there until Mr. Saleh stepped down. The police have arrested more than 100 demonstrators and around 30 have been injured in skirmishes with pro-government groups who have periodically set upon the antigovernment encampment wielding sticks and hurling stones.
There were also fresh protests by southern secessionists in Aden, the port city east of Taiz, where demonstrations have been notably more violent. One protester, about 20 years old, was said to have been shot to death in battles with the police on Wednesday, according to reports from the city, as hundreds took to the streets in several neighborhoods.
Though Yemen's southern secessionists have also sought inspiration from a regional wave of protests, their demand for independence is longstanding and their goals differ from those of the students protesting against Mr. Saleh in Sana and other areas, including Taiz, which is not part of the area that secessionists have claimed.
Since Sunday, when police officers in Sana attacked more than 1,000 young protesters with batons and stun guns, the police have mostly refrained from attacking them, instead stepping in to break up skirmishes between rival groups.
Despite the increased police presence on Wednesday, the two groups clashed at the university and there were reports of several injuries as government supporters attacked students with batons. Reuters reported that the police had fired shots in the air to separate the groups, and that some of those protesting in favor of the government were picked up by luxury cars and sped away.
Several foreign journalists were singled out and set upon by pro-government groups, Reuters reported. Since the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, security forces have made scattered efforts to prevent foreign journalists from covering the spread of demonstrations, which have taken on a younger and more spontaneous cast in recent days.
Mr. Saleh, an important ally of the United States in the fight against terrorism, has in recent weeks sought to counter the rising tide of opposition and preserve his three-decade rule by raising army salaries, halving income taxes and ordering price controls, among other concessions. But as protests by young Yemenis continued, it was clear that those efforts were not stemming the unrest.
Government supporters and armed police officers continued to occupy Sana's central square -- which, like its Cairo counterpart, is called Tahrir Square. The pro-government men, mostly from the outskirts of the capital and some carrying weapons, have pitched tents in the square and vowed to remain until the unrest ends. Police officers moved to restrict access with concertina wire to prevent antigovernment protesters from gathering there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); RIOTS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (84%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); FIRES (71%); CORRUPTION (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



468 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Small Brewers Want to Tap Into a Little of the Action

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER A. SMITH. 
csmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
If you want to sample Scott Metzger's Old Bat Rastard brew, you will have to travel to San Antonio, sit down at his pub, Freetail Brewing Company, and order a frothy glass from the tap or ask for a half-gallon growler to go.
Pub owners like Mr. Metzger would love to sell their brews in retail stores, bars and restaurants, but state law prohibits it. So he and other owners have formed Texas Beer Freedom, a nonprofit lobbying organization, to push for legislation that would allow brewpubs to get their beer out beyond the bar. 
But the small brewers have to overcome some opponents with big names and deep pockets: the powerful beer distribution lobby.
Mr. Metzger, who is also an economics lecturer at the University of Texas at San Antonio, said that while the locally brewed beer business is booming nationally, it is lagging in Texas, where the laws governing distribution are restrictive. As a result, he said, the state is losing out on tax revenue.
''We and a lot of other brewpubs in the state are beginning to get a lot of nationwide notoriety for our beers,'' Mr. Metzger said. ''But we simply can't get outside of our doors, literally.''
Under state law, brewpubs can make and sell their beers only on site; they are not allowed to distribute their products themselves or through a separate wholesaler. Only breweries that do not sell their own products on site may distribute their beer through wholesalers. House Bill 660, filed by Representative Mike Villarreal, Democrat of San Antonio, would give them the green light to increase production, sell to beer distributors and sell directly to stores and restaurants if they produce 10,000 barrels of beer a year -- the equivalent of 20,000 kegs -- or less.
But major beer distributors do not want to open those spigots. Their lobbyists argue that allowing brewpubs to sell their own wares would destroy the regulatory system in Texas that has operated, effectively and profitably, since the end of Prohibition. Rick Donley, president of the Beer Alliance of Texas, which lobbies for companies that distribute major-brand beer and some craft brews, said the three-tiered system -- which regulates the production, distribution and retail sales of beer separately -- made the beer business easier to regulate and tax, and keeps any one business from creating a monopoly.
Because brewpubs are not currently regulated in the same way as distributors, Mr. Donley said he worries that their products could be shipped to dry counties or to minors. ''This regulatory system has worked well since Prohibition,'' Mr. Donley said. ''Why anybody wants to disrupt it is a question I can never quite get an answer to.''
It has worked well for the major beer producers. The top five brands in Texas, according to the state Alcoholic Beverage Commission, are Bud Light, Miller Lite, Budweiser, Coors Light and Natural Light.
The brewpub supporters point that the legislation would make brewpubs that produce up to 10,000 barrels a year and sell directly to restaurants and stores subject to the same requirements as wholesalers and distributors
''At the end of the day, it's just about they don't want increased competition and how that affects their personal wealth,'' Mr. Metzger said.
Wholesale Beer Distributors of Texas, the other major special interest group, declined to comment for this story. Together, the beer distribution groups have given lawmakers and Gov. Rick Perry approximately $2.5 million in campaign contributions since 2001, according to state campaign finance records.
Mr. Villarreal said he hoped the brewers' nonprofit group would generate enough support to force the big-name distributors and lawmakers to compromise. ''My proposal is a start of the conversation,'' he said.
Texas Beer Freedom is relying on social networking and public rallies to garner support for the measure. ''We know that we are definitely the underdog, big-time underdog,'' Mr. Metzger said. ''But that doesn't mean we are not going to fight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tim Stevens poured an Agave Wit at Uncle Billy's Brew & Que. State laws prohibit small brewers from distributing their brews.
 Amos Lowe, a brewer, and Kim Mizner prepared equipment at Uncle Billy's Brew & Que in Austin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACOB VILLANUEVA/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (91%); BREWERIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); LEGISLATION (76%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (76%); RETAIL SALES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (91%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



469 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING AFRICA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Ivory Coast: Banks Ordered Seized

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (Reuters) -- Laurent Gbagbo, the strongman who refuses to step down despite losing a presidential election in November, said Thursday that major banks that had suspended business in Ivory Coast would be nationalized. 
The announcement is the latest turn in a bitter struggle for political control of the West African country.
The banking system in Ivory Coast, the world's top cocoa grower, has been heading toward collapse this week, with virtually all commercial banks shutting down and others swamped by customers trying to withdraw savings.
The bank closings are a result of international sanctions intended to squeeze Mr. Gbagbo of financing and to force him to acknowledge the results of the presidential election on Nov. 28, which were certified by the United Nations and showed that the winner was his opponent, Alassane Ouattara.
In a statement issued after a cabinet meeting on Thursday, Mr. Gbagbo's government said he had ordered ''that the Ivorian state take control, via a total and complete stakeholding in the capital of these banks.''
The statement referred to the country's biggest bank, a unit of Societe Generale of France, which suspended business on Thursday as part of an exodus of foreign banks. It also cited a unit of another French bank, BNP Paribas, as well as Standard Chartered. The statement also named ''City Bank,'' apparently a reference to Citibank, which also shut down its unit in the country.
The power struggle between supporters of Mr. Gbagbo and Mr. Ouattara has begun to affect the country's economy, as sanctions imposed by the European Union and the United States on Mr. Gbagbo for refusing to cede power start to bite.
''It means there is no properly functioning banking system anymore,'' Samir Gadio, an analyst with Standard Bank, said of the spate of closures, which could make it hard for Mr. Gbagbo to pay public-sector and army wages this month.
About 300 people have been killed during the standoff.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); COCOA FARMING (56%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); BNP PARIBAS SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); BNP (PAR) (90%); BNP (BIT) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (98%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



470 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: In a Field of Reason and Skill, Lawyers Woo Luck With Ritual

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
Day after too many days, the defense lawyer Murray Richman went to the same restaurant for lunch, ordering the same meal as he had the day before: a Mayan sun salad with a sauteed filet of salmon.
He continued to do so until his murder trial in the Bronx finally ended on Wednesday, and he will resume the ritual the next time he goes to trial there.
''I'm eating the same food every freaking day,'' Mr. Richman said recently, noting that the trial was lasting several weeks longer than he had expected. ''It's very good, but how many times can you eat it?''
For all his considerable skills at the bar and knowledge of the law, Mr. Richman, whose clients have included mobsters, politicians and rap stars, acknowledges a complicated and at times humorous interplay with superstition. 
In this way, Mr. Richman is not unlike many of New York's most successful trial lawyers; their inclination to dismiss superstitious behavior is usually followed by an admission of a particular ritual, unfailingly observed.
Ira Lee Sorkin, who represented Bernard L. Madoff in the huge Ponzi scheme case, said he always wears a certain kind of Hebrew University tie during his opening statement. Steve Zissou never has a haircut until a trial ends. Deirdre von Dornum, a lawyer with the federal defenders' office, will enter or leave the United States courthouse in Manhattan during trials only through the Pearl Street entrance. Sabrina Shroff, of the same office, does not change pens in trials.
''The trial gods are very powerful,'' said Peter E. Quijano. ''You respect them. You make little offerings.''
For three straight days while awaiting a verdict in the recent terrorism trial of his client Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, Mr. Quijano ordered a cheddar burger and bloody mary from the same waitress in the same booth at the Whiskey Tavern on Baxter Street.
Mr. Quijano, as he did in that case, also tries to insert the name of his Scottish terrier, Watson, into summations.
''It's part of the human condition that no matter how many years of education you've had, you still have faith in certain totems,'' said Arthur R. Miller, a law professor at New York University. He added, ''I won't go to court without a three-piece suit and without a red tie, and without a red pocket square.''
Trial lawyers, of course, are not alone. Baseball players tap their cleats; in theater, it is bad luck to whistle backstage, and no one may utter the title of the play ''Macbeth'' unless one is actually working on a production and the script requires it, said Howard Sherman, executive director of the American Theater Wing. (A euphemism -- ''the Scottish play'' -- exists for those who must refer to it.)
But wouldn't lawyers, who are seemingly driven by reason and logic, be different?
''This is completely irrational,'' admits David A. Ruhnke, one of the nation's leading specialists in capital cases.
''I believe that black is a color particularly associated with death and mourning, so I will not write in black ink.''
Mr. Ruhnke said that he sends e-mails with blue rather than black letters, and uses blue, green or white binders, what he calls ''life colors.'' He avoids red.
''I have no idea where it came from,'' he said, but he has no plans to alter his ways. In 16 capital trials, he said, he has had only two clients sentenced to death and none executed -- an accomplishment in a field where the goal is to save a defendant's life.
Other lawyers have their own approaches. ''I won't pass up a homeless person or a beggar during an entire trial,'' said Gerald L. Shargel, whose clients have included organized crime figures and, more recently, Marc S. Dreier, the lawyer convicted in an elaborate fraud.
''I will walk under ladders. I will let black cats pass in front of me. But I'll not pass up a beggar,'' Mr. Shargel said.
He typically gives a $20 bill. ''I've done that in every economy, through recessions and through robust times,'' he said.
Mitra Hormozi, who was a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn in the 2006 trial of two retired detectives who had become mob assassins, said she liked to wear navy or gray suits while trying cases, but would put on a softer peach-colored outfit when, for example, a cooperating witness with a violent background would testify.
''I was convinced,'' Ms. Hormozi said, ''for whatever reason, this was the lucky suit. Every one of my big trials, you will see me wear that at one point.''
Stephen Gillers, a New York University law professor, said that in classes he had talked about such behavior by lawyers.
''The analogy for me has always been to the pre-scientific age, when people attributed phenomena to the gods because they didn't know why else it was happening.''
The rituals often follow the outcomes of earlier cases. In the 2001 gun possession trial of Sean Combs (also known as Diddy), his lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, wore a slender bracelet of red thread called a bendel that came from Israel and was supposed to ward off the evil eye. Mr. Combs was eventually acquitted, and Mr. Brafman still wears the wristband.
He is not superstitious, he maintains, but says: ''I just wear it because since I've put it on, I've enjoyed good luck, both personally and professionally. Do I think about just breaking it off and throwing it away? Yes, the thought has occurred to me. But I haven't.''
Sometimes, such rituals produce inconsistent results.
Jonathan P. Bach had eaten in a Chinatown noodle shop on the day in 2007 that a jury acquitted his client, David Lemus, on charges stemming from a killing at the Palladium nightclub.
Figuring the noodle shop might bring the right karma, Mr. Bach recalled, he dined there again during deliberations in another trial. But in that case, his client was convicted on some counts.
''You don't win every trial,'' Mr. Bach said, but he added that he had not returned to the noodle shop.
In some cases, a ritual is based on avoiding certain acts. Charles A. Stillman said he once dozed off years ago during lengthy deliberations, only to be awakened and told that a verdict had been reached; it turned out to be guilty. Now he never allows himself to nod off during deliberations. ''If defeat is going to come,'' Mr. Stillman said, ''I'm going to be awake when it arrives.''
Rituals can follow lawyers from job to job.
Roberto Finzi said that for years, as a federal prosecutor, he wore the same lucky tie whenever he gave an opening argument, a practice he continued after becoming a defense lawyer. The tie became so frayed that he finally replaced it.
''Trial lawyers believe in jinxes,'' Mr. Finzi acknowledged from White Plains, where he is defending a man in a murder trial. Along with using his keen judgment and legal skills, Mr. Finzi made clear that he was doing whatever else was necessary.
''I've been up here 10 days,'' he said earlier this month, ''and I've had a tuna fish sandwich for lunch every single day.''
But Joshua L. Dratel questioned his colleagues' adherence to superstition, asking, ''If where I ate dinner last night decides the merits of a case, then what's the point of even trying?''
And Steven M. Cohen, another veteran lawyer, observed, ''You certainly wouldn't want to learn that your heart surgeon or your 747 pilot always wears the same pair of underwear when it's time to perform.''
One lawyer who insists he does not believe in such rituals is Richard B. Lind, who played college baseball at Cornell and recalled how he and some teammates avoided stepping on foul lines because it was seen as unlucky.
Now, when he has a trial, Mr. Lind said, he actively tries to dispel any hold that superstition may have on a case.
''I will purposely step on a crack,'' he explained. (He then acknowledged the possible contradiction in his action.)
As for Mr. Richman, the jury returned a guilty verdict after about a week of deliberations, despite his lunchtime sojourns to the restaurant Giovanni. Nonetheless, the next time he has a trial in the Bronx, a table awaits.
He, too, maintains that he is not superstitious.
''I don't believe in any spiritual aspect of human nature,'' Mr. Richman said. ''However, I could be wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The defense lawyer Murray Richman, right, had the same lunch every day during a Bronx trial. (A1)
Benjamin Brafman with a special bracelet from Israel: ''I just wear it because since I've put it on, I've enjoyed good luck.''
Mitra Hormozi in a suit she wears during each big trial: ''I was convinced for whatever reason, this was the lucky suit.''
Gerald L. Shargel: ''I will walk under ladders. I will let black cats pass in front of me. But I'll not pass up a beggar.'' He gives $20.
 Peter E. Quijano usually mentions his Scottish terrier, Watson, in summations. ''The trial gods are very powerful,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); THEATER (83%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); DOGS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BASEBALL (60%); MURDER (57%); PONZI SCHEMES (51%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



471 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ARAB UPHEAVAL IS UNLIKELY
To Set Off Unrest in Uganda
President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda is facing re-election, and by all measures, he is expected to win. It would be his fifth consecutive stint as president. But while Uganda shares many of the same combustible conditions that have propelled popular uprisings in the Arab world, few here expect widespread upheaval. Page A4
BRITAIN TO OVERHAUL WELFARE 
The British government introduced legislation meant to simplify and reduce the cost of the country's welfare system, saying that it wanted to change a culture in which welfare recipients risked losing income if they found jobs. Page A4
PAKISTAN DELAYS RULING
A provincial court gave the Pakistani government three weeks to decide whether the American official in custody for killing two Pakistanis has diplomatic immunity, a delay that is likely to intensify a standoff with the United States, the nation's biggest donor and an ally in the fight against terrorism. Page A8
HACKERS STRIKE IN CANADA
A Canadian federal cabinet minister said that hackers, perhaps from China, compromised computers in two government departments in early January, leaving bureaucrats with little or no Internet access for nearly two months. This attack was the latest in a series of confirmed assaults on government computer systems. Page A8
BAHRAIN LIMITS WEB ACCESS
As protests have erupted in Bahrain over the last several days, the government has severely slowed citizens' access to the Internet, new data from an organization that monitors Web traffic strongly suggests. Page A11
Iran Navy Asks to Cross Canal A12 Unrest Spreads in Middle East A12
National
BREAST-FEEDING CAMPAIGN
Causes Cross-Party Debate
Representative Michele Bachmann, a Tea Party celebrity from Minnesota, lashed out against Michelle Obama's campaign to promote breast-feeding as a way of fighting childhood obesity in an interview on Laura Ingraham's radio show. Surprisingly, many of the reactions have crossed the usual political boundaries. Page A14
NEW FINDINGS ON FATIGUE
A new study published in The Lancet suggests that psychotherapy and a gradual increase in exercise can significantly benefit patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. The findings are likely to intensify a fierce, long-running debate about what causes the illness and how to treat it. Page A16
ARREST IN MIAMI FIRES
Someone is apparently trying to burn down vacant, but once grand, Art Deco buildings in Miami Beach, home to one of the world's largest collection of such buildings. Police arrested a man they described as a transient who they believe is connected to at least one of the fires. Page A21
New York
EX-CARGO HANDLER AT J.F.K.
Sentenced After Bomb Plot
Russell M. Defreitas, a former cargo handler at Kennedy International Airport, was sentenced to life in prison. He was described by prosecutors as the ringleader of a plot to blow up fuel tanks at the airport. Page A24
Obituaries
BILL MONROE, 90
He was a television journalist whose long career with NBC included stints as the network's Washington bureau chief and moderator of its Sunday interview program, ''Meet the Press.'' Page A25
Business
AS APPLE TOILS ON IPHONE, SIZE IS NOT THE FOCUS
Apple has been exploring ways to broaden the appeal of the iPhone by making the popular device less expensive and allowing users to control it with voice commands. But contrary to published reports, Apple is said not to be developing a smaller iPhone. Page B1
ENERGY COSTS BOOST PRICES
Higher energy costs helped push up consumer prices in the United States last month, according to new government statistics, but inflation remained subdued. Economists said the new data showed that the risk of a protracted decline in prices had receded. Page B3
NEW NORDSTROM ACQUISITION
Nordstrom, the department store chain, said that it would acquire HauteLook, an online retailer that offers flash discount sales on designer goods, for $180 million in stock. Page B6
Weekend
IN WINTER, VIVID PLUMAGE
Against a Stark Backdrop
Bird-watching in spring often resembles hide-and-seek amid the greenery, writes Laurel Graeber, but viewing birds among leafless branches is like watching your favorite actors perform soliloquies on a bare stage. And there's nothing like glimpsing a male cardinal or blue jay against the snow. Page C23
FLAMENCO SIGNAL TO NOISE
Carlos Saura's ''Flamenco Hoy'' at City Center celebrates not the style but the stylishness of flamenco, writes Alastair Macaulay. All of the flamenco characteristics are there -- cascades of staccato footwork, handsomely pulled-up posture, flourishes of circling wrist, and rippling and trilling effects on the guitar -- but they register only as theatrical effects. Page C4
Sports
REGGIE MILLER ABSENT
From Class of 2011
When the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame announces its finalists for the class of 2011, one name will be conspicuous in its absence: Reggie Miller, the former Indiana Pacers sharpshooter, who is in his first year of eligibility. Page B10
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A27
David Brooks Page A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (88%); ARRESTS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); BREASTFEEDING (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); IMMUNITY (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); TERRORISM (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (62%); OBESITY (62%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (54%); AIRPORTS (50%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UGANDA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



472 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: For Much of Rural America, Broadband Is a Dividing Line

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
COFFEEVILLE, Ala. -- After a couple of days in this part of rural Alabama, it is hard to complain about a dropped iPhone call or a Cee Lo video that takes a few seconds too long to load.
The county administrator cannot get broadband at her house. Neither can the sportswriter at The Thomasville Times.
Here in Coffeeville, the only computer many students ever touch is at the high school.
''I'm missing a whole lot,'' said Justin Bell, 17. ''I know that.'' 
As the world embraces its digital age -- two billion people now use the Internet regularly -- the line delineating two Americas has become more broadly drawn. There are those who have reliable, fast access to the Internet, and those, like about half of the 27,867 people here in Clarke County, who do not.
In rural America, only 60 percent of households use broadband Internet service, according to a report released Thursday by the Department of Commerce. That is 10 percent less than urban households. Over all, 28 percent of Americans do not use the Internet at all.
The report was developed in conjunction with a national broadband map that was also released Thursday, as part of a billion-dollar effort to improve Internet access in the United States, particularly in rural areas.
Pushing America's digital expansion is a point of emphasis for President Obama, who on Thursday night held a private meeting with Silicon Valley's elite, including Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and Carol Bartz, president and chief executive of Yahoo. His administration has given $7.2 billion in stimulus money toward the effort, including the map, which took five years and $200 million to develop and shows a number of discrepancies in the quality and availability of broadband access between rural and urban communities.
''This is like electricity was,'' said Brian Depew, an assistant director of the Center for Rural Affairs, a nonprofit research group in Lyons, Neb. ''This is a critical utility.''
''You often hear people talk about broadband from a business development perspective, but it's much more significant than that,'' Mr. Depew added. ''This is about whether rural communities are going to participate in our democratic society. If you don't have effective broadband, you are cut out of things that are really core to who we are as a country.''
Affordable broadband service through hard wiring and or cellular phone coverage could revolutionize life in rural parts of the country. People could pay bills, shop and visit doctors online. They could work from home and take college classes.
Increasingly, interacting with certain branches of government can be done only online. And sometimes, a lack of cellphone or e-mail access can have serious consequences. Emergency alerts regarding severe weather, for example, are often sent only through text or e-mail.
All of that is important, certainly. But here in Clarke County, where churches and taxidermy shops line the main roads and drivers learn early to dodge logging trucks hauling pine trees, most people would simply like to upload photos of their children to Facebook.
''Ninety-five percent of the people in this county who want public water can have it, but people can't even talk to each other around here,'' said Sharon Jones, 60, who owns a small logging company with her husband and lives just outside Coffeeville.
It took her three days to try to arrange a meeting with the governor 150 miles away in Montgomery because such inquiries cannot be made over the phone and she had to drive 45 minutes to her daughter's house to use e-mail.
At home, her cellphone works only if she walks to the porch and stands at the end of a bench. They have dial-up at the office, ''but that's so slow it makes you pull your hair out,'' Mrs. Jones said. A satellite dish is out of the question because her house is surrounded by trees.
''It takes 10 times the effort to do what someone else can do in a matter of five minutes,'' she said.
For many here, where the median household income is $27,388, the existing cellphone and Internet options are too expensive.
Joyce Graham, who oversees Web-based classes at Coffeeville High School, has struggled with dial-up service at home since 2000. A month ago, she started buying satellite service with help from stimulus money.
''For most people out here, satellite is all you can get, and it's $70 a month,'' she said. ''Now who is going to pay that? This is a poor, rural county.''
Not that all of the county is without decent coverage. Some towns have broadband service, and other people can get it using wireless cellular lines.
Sheldon Day, the mayor of Thomasville, about 25 miles northeast of here, prides himself on his city's embrace of technology. Broadband is widely available, and police cars have computers. But even getting e-mail on a smartphone in the middle of town can be maddening.
''There are areas within five miles of where I am sitting that don't have any connectivity, even with cell service,'' he said.
Gina Wilson, director of the Thomasville library, oversees 11 terminals with lightning-fast Internet access, paid for with stimulus money. They attract students and the unemployed during the day. At night, people stop by after work to check their e-mail or scroll through Facebook.
Mrs. Wilson noticed that after hours, people would pull into the parking lot to try to use the library's wireless signal. So she started leaving it on all night, and plans to post a sign on the door with the password (which, if you are in Thomasville and need to get online, is ''guest'').
A group of community leaders worked for years on a $5.5 million co-op-style plan to attach microwave technology to the numerous water towers in the area so everyone could have affordable wireless service. They applied for stimulus money, but were turned down.
The tiny Pine Belt Telephone Company also tried for stimulus money, hoping to run a fiber optic line into Coffeeville. They, too, were turned down.
''Essentially it comes down to the big, national companies not wanting to invest and the lack of interest in certain areas,'' said John Nettles, who runs the family-owned telecommunication company. ''It's not much different than the impact the big-box stores have had on rural America and small-town businesses.''
A spokesman for AT&T, which offers coverage in parts of Clarke Country, declined to comment.
Alabama, using federal and state grants, is working with service providers to expand coverage. State officials are also dispatching teams with mobile computer labs to show people why they need the Internet. The theory is that increasing demand will make it more lucrative for companies to invest in technology and provide online service at prices that residents can afford.
It is a hard sell, especially among older residents. A study last year by the Pew Internet and American Life Project showed that a fifth of adults do not use the Internet because they feel it is not relevant to their lives.
''The people who could benefit from broadband the most use it the least,'' said Amelia Hall Stehouwer, a researcher from Auburn University who works with rural Alabama communities.
Still, here in the Pine Belt, it will be a long road to the digital age.
''We are trying to pull ourselves into the 21st century,'' said Mrs. Jones, the logging company owner. ''I don't think the rest of the world understands there is a piece of the world here that is really challenged.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sharon Jones, top left, who lives just outside Coffeeville, Ala., is a volunteer with the Clarke County Emergency Management Agency. She travels 45 minutes to her daughter's home to use the Internet, and keeps a list of e-mails she needs to send. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEGGAN HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAPS: Mapping Online Access: Five to 10 percent of people in the United States do not have access to high-speed Internet service, according to a new national broadband map. (Source: National Telecommunications and Information Administration (broadbandmap.gov)) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); COUNTIES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); WEATHER (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (67%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); CAROL BARTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



473 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Protests Spread to More Iraqi Cities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and DURAID ADNAN; Employees for The New York Times contributed reporting from Sulaimaniya, Erbil, Diyala, Kirkuk, Basra and Kut.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Unrest continued to spread in Iraq on Thursday, with new protests erupting in several cities and reports from law enforcement officials that private security guards in a city in Kurdistan fired on a group of protesters who tried to storm the political offices of the region's leader.
Early reports from law enforcement officials said that five people had been killed and dozens injured in that city, Sulaimaniya. But the head of the health department there later said that only one person had died. 
Protesters have been calling for better government services, including more electricity, and in some cases, for local government officials to resign.
The demonstrations, although over long-festering grievances that neither the American military nor successive Iraqi governments solved, appear to have been inspired by unrest elsewhere in the Middle East.
The protests in Sulaimaniya and in the eastern city of Kut, where three people died Wednesday, were far more violent than others that have popped up around Iraq over the past few weeks.
Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, at a press conference in Baghdad, suggested that the protests were something of a positive development, although he cautioned against violence.
''I am happy to see the Iraqis are able to protest,'' Mr. Maliki said, saying that the ability to challenge the government had been only a ''dream'' under Saddam Hussein. ''But the protesters should not set fire to a building. We should express our demands in a civilized manner.''
Mr. Maliki also acknowledged that Iraqis had a right to be upset with such problems as sporadic electricity, but he blamed these problems on Mr. Hussein's government and said Iraq still needs time to recover from the former dictator's rule and the war.
Insurgent violence also continues to disrupt the country. In Muqdadiya, a city 50 miles northeast of Baghdad, a car bomb exploded killing seven and injuring 30. Among the dead was one policeman.
In Sulaimaniya, the protesters attacked the headquarters of the political party headed by the president of the semiautonomous Kurdish region, Massoud Barzani.
At first, guards fired their guns in the air, according to Adel Abdulah Hamid, a member of parliament from Mr. Barzani's party. But when the protesters continued throwing rocks at the building, the guards opened fire.
The authorities imposed a curfew from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. Many jewelry store owners emptied their stores of products because they were concerned that riots might break out.
Meanwhile, in Kut, about 1,000 protesters took to the streets demanding the release of 45 people arrested Wednesday after clashes with government security forces.
The protesters on Wednesday had set the provincial government headquarters and governor's home on fire after security forces fired on them as they threw rocks at the building, demanding that the governor resign. Three people died in the melee and at least 27 were injured, including a security officer.
The protesters in Kut have called on the province's governor, Latif Hamad al-Tarfa, to resign over accusations that he stole money from the government and failed to improve the economy and electrical supply.
A donkey with the word ''the governor'' scrawled on its side stood with demonstrators in front of the headquarters on Thursday.
''We will stay here in the street until the governor walks out,'' said Mahdi al-Yasiry, a 37-year old engineer who is unemployed. ''Everything in this province is bad. No gas. No electricity. No jobs. No nothing.''
Kut, a mostly Shiite city of about 850,000, is about 100 miles southeast of Baghdad and is one of the poorest cities in Iraq. The authorities there imposed a curfew at 5 p.m. but a local law enforcement official said he expected that 500 protesters outside of government buildings would be allowed to camp there.
According to Akel Salah, a 27-year old who took part in the protest, said his brother was arrested during the demonstrations.
''I am calling his phone, but it is switched off,'' he said. ''His wife and son are going crazy,'' he said.
Mr. Salah said that he and other protesters had assembled tents on the streets so they could sleep there overnight, a tactic used in Egypt where protesters set up camp in a busy Cairo square. He said they would remain until their demands were met.
In Basra, about 600 people gathered in front of the provincial headquarters, calling for the governor's ouster.
And in the northern city of Kirkuk about 400 people protested in front of a government building, calling for better services for widow and orphans.
The protesters there shouted: ''We want justice. Where are our rights? Protect the orphans from the thieves. We are hungry in a country of oil.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); RIOTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ARSON (69%); CURFEW (68%); FIRES (64%); ARRESTS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



474 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Tomorrow Never Comes

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Jonathan Alter wrote a book about Barack Obama's first year in office called ''The Promise.'' That's a great title because it works on so many levels. For example, over the past four years, Obama's career has been marked by a constant promise: He has continually said he is on the verge of doing something serious abut the national debt.
He started making the promise back when he was in the Senate. In ''The Audacity of Hope,'' published in 2006, he expressed alarm at the ''mountain of debt'' caused by $300 billion annual budget deficits. (They're now $1.6 trillion.) During the presidential campaign, he pledged to put away childish things and tackle the tough budget issues. 
During the transition, he said the time to act on the debt is now. ''What we have done is kicked the can down the road,'' he told The Washington Post. ''We are now at the end of the road and are not in a position to kick it any further.'' He said he would start a budget initiative in February 2009.
After the stimulus package passed, he and his aides said it would soon be time to turn to deficit issues. The same promise was made after health care reform. He made the pledge yet again at a press conference this week. Right now is not the time, the president always says, but tomorrow we will get serious.
But tomorrow never comes.
The biggest tease came last year when the president's debt commission announced its report. That report produced a series of great conversations. But, yet again, words do not translate into action. The message of the president's 2012 budget is: Not yet. We'll get serious tomorrow.
The budget has some fine features. I'll soon be writing a column about how many of its provisions are better than anything the Republican Party is proposing. But it is laughably inadequate compared with the fiscal problems before us.
In 2012, the only year this budget controls, the president would actually increase the deficit with more spending. Roughly two-thirds of the alleged savings would nominally kick in after 2016. The budget imagines that $328 billion in financing for transportation projects will magically appear. While ignoring tax reform, it lards up the tax code with another layer of special preferences. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget calculates that $780 billion of the proposed deficit cuts are politically dubious.
The budget gets a lot of little things right, but it squanders the opening created by the debt commission. It fails to touch the big programs or ask for any shared sacrifice from the American people.
Two explanations are commonly offered to explain why the White House decided to kick the can down the road. Some analysts say the Democrats are trying for a repeat of 1995: Do nothing on the deficit; goad the Republicans into announcing entitlement cutbacks and then savage them on the campaign trail for cutting off granny.
I don't believe this is in the president's head. It would be morally reprehensible to bankrupt the nation for the sake of a campaign theme. Obama is not that sort of person.
The other explanation is that Obama is following the model of the 1983 Social Security deal. Be patient, the president argued at his press conference this week. If I lead from the front my proposal will get stymied in the partisan circus. Better to lead from the back and have negotiations in private with Republican leaders. Then when the time is ripe, we'll cut a deal outside the glare of the scream machine.
The president and his aides may really believe in this strategy, but it is wrong. This is not like fixing Social Security in the early 1980s. The current debt problem is of an entirely different scale. It requires a rewrite of the social contract, a new way to think about how the government pays for social insurance.
The president has enormous faith in getting smart people around the table and initiating technocratic reform. But you can't renegotiate the social contract in private. You have to have public buy-in. You have to spend years out in public educating voters about the size of the problem and what will be required. You have to show voters what a solution looks like.
The New Deal wasn't passed by a president who led quietly from the back. Neither was the Great Society or the Reagan Revolution. President Obama's softly, softly approach is a rationalization, not a coherent strategy. It's the latest version of Obama's eternal promise: I'll do it tomorrow.
So the mantle of leadership has passed to Capitol Hill. While Obama asked for patience yet again, Eric Cantor announced that Republicans will put entitlements on the table. It may be politically risky, but it looks more like leadership to me.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WRITERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); TAX REFORM (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (63%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



475 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Business Taxes Buoy Outlook In City Budget

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in unveiling his budget proposal on Thursday, summed up New York City's financial health with a phrase scarcely heard in the halls of government these days: ''It's good news.''
While other cities and states grapple with calamitous balance sheets and mass layoffs, Mr. Bloomberg proposed a $65.6 billion spending plan for the next fiscal year, about the same size as the current budget. But the city expects $49.9 billion of that will come from its own coffers, an increase of 12 percent. 
And even as other governments have fallen into deep financial holes, the city's forecast for tax revenues has increased by $2 billion since November, making the severe cuts many city workers had feared unnecessary.
New York stands on surer footing than most major cities -- at least for the moment -- propped up by a financial industry that has come back roaring from the depths of the recession. Revenue from business taxes is expected to grow by 19 percent this year over the previous year.
Mr. Bloomberg, taking to the lectern to explain his budget, beamed as he spoke about the city's record number of tourists, its better-than-average unemployment rate and its recovering commercial real estate market. ''We are in a much stronger position than most because we have planned ahead,'' he said. ''I've always been optimistic about New York.''
Still, budget analysts cautioned that the city would not always be able to rely on corporations to save it from financial peril. Wall Street profits have surged as a result of cheap lending, but the Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates again soon.
''It's a big risk,'' said Nicole Gelinas, a scholar at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative organization. ''New York is more the repository of extraordinary global and national forces than its own engine.''
To be sure, Mr. Bloomberg's budget, which covers the fiscal year beginning July 1, was not free of pain. His plan would eliminate more than 6,000 teaching positions, requiring the first significant layoffs of teachers since the 1970s.
Under the mayor's proposal, 100 centers for elderly people and 20 fire companies would close, and 17,000 slots for child care would vanish. One of the mayor's signature efforts to combat homelessness, a rental-subsidy program that provides an incentive for the homeless to find a job, would be eliminated.
Those grim figures come with a caveat. The state has yet to adopt its budget, and so Mr. Bloomberg's gloomy forecast is meant, in part, to try to force more money out of Albany. Mr. Bloomberg has been known to threaten layoffs that never materialize.
Still, even the proposed cuts are a far cry from the grim scenes that are playing out in town halls across the country.
Many local governments, including cities like Camden, N.J.; Houston; and Los Angeles, are facing some of the largest spending cuts in their histories, and revenues have fallen to frightening lows. Property-tax revenue is a particularly acute source of pain for many cities as home values decline.
According to the National League of Cities, 25 percent of municipalities have made reductions to public-safety programs, usually a cut of last resort.
Louis H. Schimmel, a budget expert from Michigan, said the situation had played out in slow motion because many politicians were unwilling to make the necessary cutbacks.
''You wait until you run out of money and things are so bad that you have no money,'' Mr. Schimmel said. ''Then you begin to cut.''
In New York, the circumstances are substantially different. The city faces a $4.58 billion deficit, but Mr. Bloomberg has pledged to close the gap without raising taxes or making significant cutbacks.
His plan assumes that the state, which is in more difficult financial straits, will help close the gap with $200 million in education aid, $200 million in savings from pension overhauls and $200 million in revenue-sharing funds.
''We don't deserve to be penalized for our responsible management,'' Mr. Bloomberg said Thursday. ''If the state does not come through, layoffs and service cuts will be more severe.''
In another sign of its financial stability, the city has pledged $1.9 billion to help make up for a cut of $2.3 billion in state and federal spending on education.
Brighter-than-expected tax forecasts are the source of much of the city's optimism. Property-tax revenues are expected to increase by 4.1 percent in the next fiscal year compared with this year. Sales-tax revenues are projected to grow by 9 percent as unemployment eases and consumer spending rises.
And Wall Street, where profits last year totaled approximately $28 billion, the second-best year in its history, remains a critical economic catalyst. The city expects strong earnings will translate into higher tax revenues. Tax revenue from banks, for instance, rose 48 percent in the second half of 2010, compared with the same period in 2009.
It is unclear exactly how long the momentum will last. City officials cautioned that bank-tax revenues could decline an average of nearly 5 percent from 2012 to the end of 2015.
Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the city's Independent Budget Office, said the city's future economic growth would depend in large part on traditional areas like banking and tourism. But she also said growth in fields like education and health care would be critical.
''Given what we know about the pressures on state and local government, and given what we know about the direction Washington is heading, those sectors will have to continue to grow,'' she said. ''Those are the tea leaves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We are in a much stronger position than most because we have planned ahead,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said Thursday. The current forecast makes the severe cuts that some feared unnecessary.
From left, Sanitation Commissioner John J. Doherty
Joseph F. Bruno, head of the Office of Emergency Management
Schools Chancellor Cathleen P. Black
 and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly at the mayor's news conference on the budget. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); RECESSION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%); AGING (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); CATHLEEN BLACK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



476 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Unrest in Bahrain Presents Diplomatic Puzzle for Obama

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For the second time in two weeks violence has broken out in a restive Arab ally of the United States, confronting the Obama administration with the question of how harshly to condemn a friendly leader who is resisting street protests against his government.
This time it is Bahrain, a postage-stamp monarchy in the Persian Gulf, where the United States Navy bases its Fifth Fleet. At least five people were killed early Thursday when heavily armed riot police officers fired shotguns and concussion grenades into a crowd occupying a traffic circle in the capital, Manama. 
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton called Bahrain's foreign minister, Sheik Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa, on Thursday to ''express deep concern about recent events,'' a State Department official said. Mrs. Clinton urged ''restraint moving forward'' and pushed Sheik Khalid, a member of the royal family that rules Bahrain, to speed up a program of political and economic reforms.
But President Obama has yet to issue the blunt public criticism of Bahrain's rulers that he eventually leveled against President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt -- or that he has repeatedly aimed at Iran's leaders. Such criticism would be an even sharper break for the United States than it was in the case of Egypt, since just two months ago Washington was holding up Bahrain as a model of reform for the region.
What the administration does with Bahrain is likely to be a telling indicator of how it will deal with the balance between protecting its strategic interests, and promoting democracy -- a balance some critics said it never properly struck in its sometimes awkward response to the Egyptian turmoil. What will make this diplomatic maneuvering even more complicated is Bahrain's proximity to Saudi Arabia, another Sunni monarchy with even greater strategic value to the United States.
Though much smaller than Egypt, Bahrain is another pillar of the American security architecture in the Middle East. King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, a Sunni Muslim, is a staunch ally of Washington in its showdown with Iran's Shiite theocracy. In diplomatic cables made public by WikiLeaks, he urged administration officials to take military action to disable Iran's nuclear program.Bahrain's situation is also more complicated than Egypt's because the uprising there is not purely a case of economically thwarted young people rebelling against a hidebound regime. It has a majority Shiite population that is expressing long-simmering resentments against the Sunni minority that rules with a tight grip.
The large Shiite population fans suspicions that Iran will seek to exploit instability there to extend its influence to the other side of the Persian Gulf, even though Shiite parties in Bahrain insist that this is not a religious dispute.
Another complication is that King Hamad, while hardly a constitutional monarch, allowed municipal and legislative elections last fall, for which he was praised by Mrs. Clinton during a visit to Bahrain in December.
''The fact that so many citizens voted was a strong demonstration of their resolve to take part in their public life,'' she said. ''I am impressed by the commitment that the government has to the democratic path that Bahrain is walking on.''
That history, as much as the headquarters of the Fifth Fleet, may explain why the administration has not been quicker to condemn King Hamad.
Bahrain, with its strategic location but its minuscule military, has been sheltered under an umbrella of American military protection for more than half a century, and since the Persian Gulf war in 1991 the military ties have become stronger. But while the Fifth Fleet calls the island its home base, that is mainly a matter of convenience rather than necessity to the United States Navy. The Navy has only 2,300 personnel there working in the comfort of an isolated compound, and making relatively little use of local port facilities for its major warships, which stay mainly at sea and at other anchorages. The island is a favorite place for shore leave in the Gulf, as the culture is relatively open and alcohol is openly available. The two militaries do train together and have even mounted joint combat operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); NAVIES (76%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); RELIGION (67%); BRAIN INJURIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (90%) BAHRAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EGYPT (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



477 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Says U.S. Has Bolstered Its Ability to Handle Failure of a Big Bank

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the Federal Reserve said on Thursday that banking regulators would be better able to deal with the failure of a large bank today than they were two years ago, thanks in part to the Dodd-Frank Act, which overhauled financial regulation after the crisis of 2007-8.
Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, told the Senate Banking Committee that it would be some time before all of the rules of the new law were in place but that regulators had begun to tighten risk standards and ''certainly we've all learned lessons from the crisis.'' 
When Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the committee, asked what those lessons were, Mr. Bernanke replied, ''The importance of being very aggressive and not being willing to allow banks, you know, too much leeway, particularly when they're inadequate in areas like risk management.''
Mr. Bernanke's comments came as he and other chief regulators sparred with lawmakers over whether new regulations would cost businesses and consumers too much, and whether they would adequately protect against another financial crisis.
The chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the acting comptroller of the currency explained how their agencies were writing and carrying out hundreds of rules and regulations that were required by the law, which was signed in July.
''In 2008, the financial system failed the American public, but the regulatory system, as well, failed the American public,'' Gary Gensler, the chairman of the commodities commission, told the committee. The commodities group and the S.E.C. combined have proposed 64 new rules that would affect parts of the financial markets and have issued eight final rules and four interim rules. But officials have said they will be hard pressed to meet all of the Dodd-Frank deadlines for new regulation.
Several senators focused on a Fed proposal that would require debit card issuers to cut by as much as 90 percent the fees charged to merchants for individual purchases.
The Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would exempt smaller banks, which depend more on the fees to maintain profitability, from having to lower their fees. But Mr. Bernanke and Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., said a two-tiered system might not work.
''It is possible that the exemption will not be effective in the marketplace,'' Mr. Bernanke said, because merchants may not accept debit cards from smaller institutions if they have to pay higher fees to do so. In addition, the debit card transaction networks may be unwilling to set up systems that recognize two different fee rates.
Over all, however, Mr. Bernanke said, the lower charges, known as interchange fees, would reduce the costs of debit transactions. Some of the savings could be passed on to customers, he said.
Some members of both houses of Congress and on both sides of the aisle have taken aim at the interchange rule, a section of the Dodd-Frank Act often referred to as the Durbin amendment after its sponsor, Senator Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat.
At a House Financial Services Committee hearing on Thursday, as well as at the Senate Banking Committee meeting, lawmakers asked the banking regulators whether the provision should be delayed -- something that Congress would have to mandate.
At the House hearing, Sarah Bloom Raskin, a member of the Fed's board of governors, put the ball back in Congress's court. ''We would most definitely defer to Congress's desire,'' she said.
In the Senate hearing, Ms. Bair was noncommittal on the question. ''There are legitimate policy arguments on both sides of this,'' she said. ''But it was done very quickly. I think the full policy ramifications, who's paying for what, who's going to pay more and who's going to pay less under this is something that maybe wasn't dealt with as thoroughly as it might have been.''
John Walsh, the acting comptroller of the currency, asked senators to consider revising part of the law that limits the use of credit ratings to determine whether a financial institution can hold an investment.
''We recognize that the misuse of credit ratings, especially in structured finance, contributed importantly to the financial crisis,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''But this was not true of corporate and municipal ratings. And after significant study and comment, we have found no practical alternative for such ratings that could be used across the banking sector.''
While not advocating a return to ''a total reliance'' on credit ratings, ''their use within defined limits is essential for implementation of capital rules,'' he said.
Mr. Walsh also said that regulators were considering civil enforcement actions against some home mortgage servicing companies that had ''critical deficiencies and shortcomings'' in the ways they handled foreclosures.
Most of the servicers examined last year were complying with the rules, he said. But regulators are preparing changes to address identified problems, he said, including ''appropriate remedies for customers who have been financially harmed.''
Several Democrats took time to point out to colleagues that the S.E.C. and the commodities futures group were facing budget squeezes that had led to cutbacks in technology spending, hiring and travel for enforcement action.
Things will get worse once the Dodd-Frank regulations are in place and new enforcement and oversight responsibilities are due, Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the S.E.C., said. ''We don't have the capacity now to take on the examination of hedge funds, for example,'' she said, or to oversee registration and regulation of portions of the swaps market.
Mr. Gensler echoed that assessment. ''I know this nation of ours has a great budget deficit that we all have to come together and understand better and grapple with,'' he said. ''It's daunting to ask for more money for this agency at this time. But I really do think this is a good investment for the American public to avoid crises like in 2008.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DEBIT CARDS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); FUTURES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); RICHARD SHELBY (73%); SHEILA BAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



478 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Now Bahrain

 BODY:
King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa of Bahrain is the latest autocrat to choose brutality, rather than reform, to try to silence his people's demands for a more just government. His actions are unconscionable and miss the lessons of Egypt and Tunisia where violence only fed popular anger. Hosni Mubarak and Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali are now gone. 
Protests in Bahrain were peaceful and festive on Wednesday when thousands of pro-democracy demonstrators -- including children -- bedded down in Pearl Square for the night. Hours later, hundreds of riot police stormed the area without warning, firing tear gas, concussion grenades, rubber bullets and shotguns.
Nicholas D. Kristof of The Times interviewed paramedics who said they were beaten for treating the injured. At least five people were killed. Two other protesters were killed earlier in the week.
Bahrain's pro-democracy movement was inspired by Egypt and Tunisia, but the grievances of its Shiite majority are longstanding. They compose 70 percent of the citizenry but hold only four of 23 cabinet slots. They are excluded from serving in the police and army. In last October's election, the Shiites won less than half of the seats in the National Assembly, raising charges of vote-rigging.
King Hamad has repeatedly vowed both political and economic reforms but has never really delivered. Now the government is looking for a scapegoat -- blaming Iran for the unrest. Tehran certainly never misses a chance to foment trouble. But the Shiites' demands are legitimate, and the appeal of Iran and other extremists will only grow if the government continues on this path.
For too long, the United States has muted its criticism of what goes in Bahrain, to ensure the kingdom's cooperation on security issues. Bahrain is home to the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet and an ally in efforts to counter Iran, terrorism and piracy.
After all of its backing and forthing on Egypt, we hoped the White House would have figured this one out. On Wednesday, President Obama criticized Iran's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators, and pointedly did not mention Bahrain. On Thursday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton did better, expressing strong opposition to the violence and support for reform.
Bahrain's brutality is not only at odds with American values, it is a threat to the country's long-term stability. Washington will need to push harder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (77%); RIOTS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); NAVIES (71%); BRAIN INJURIES (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); PARAMEDICS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); MARITIME PIRACY (62%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%) BAHRAIN (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



479 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Willie Sutton Wept

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
There are three things you need to know about the current budget debate. First, it's essentially fraudulent. Second, most people posing as deficit hawks are faking it. Third, while President Obama hasn't fully avoided the fraudulence, he's less bad than his opponents -- and he deserves much more credit for fiscal responsibility than he's getting.
About the fraudulence: Last month, Howard Gleckman of the Tax Policy Center described the president as the ''anti-Willie Sutton,'' after the holdup artist who reputedly said he robbed banks because that's where the money is. Indeed, Mr. Obama has lately been going where the money isn't, making a big deal out of a freeze on nonsecurity discretionary spending, which accounts for only 12 percent of the budget. 
But that's what everyone does. House Republicans talk big about spending cuts -- but focus solely on that same small budget sliver.
And by proposing sharp spending cuts right away, Republicans aren't just going where the money isn't, they're also going when the money isn't. Slashing spending while the economy is still deeply depressed is a recipe for slower economic growth, which means lower tax receipts -- so any deficit reduction from G.O.P. cuts would be at least partly offset by lower revenue.
The whole budget debate, then, is a sham. House Republicans, in particular, are literally stealing food from the mouths of babes -- nutritional aid to pregnant women and very young children is one of the items on their cutting block -- so they can pose, falsely, as deficit hawks.
What would a serious approach to our fiscal problems involve? I can summarize it in seven words: health care, health care, health care, revenue.
Notice that I said ''health care,'' not ''entitlements.'' People in Washington often talk as if there were a program called Socialsecuritymedicareandmedicaid, then focus on things like raising the retirement age. But that's more anti-Willie Suttonism. Long-run projections suggest that spending on the major entitlement programs will rise sharply over the decades ahead, but the great bulk of that rise will come from the health insurance programs, not Social Security.
So anyone who is really serious about the budget should be focusing mainly on health care. And by focusing, I don't mean writing down a number and expecting someone else to make that number happen -- a dodge known in the trade as a ''magic asterisk.'' I mean getting behind specific actions to rein in costs.
By that standard, the Simpson-Bowles deficit commission, whose work is now being treated as if it were the gold standard of fiscal seriousness, was in fact deeply unserious. Its report ''was one big magic asterisk,'' Bob Greenstein of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities told The Washington Post's Ezra Klein. So is the much-hyped proposal by Paul Ryan, the G.O.P.'s supposed deep thinker du jour, to replace Medicare with vouchers whose value would systematically lag behind health care costs. What's supposed to happen when seniors find that they can't afford insurance?
What would real action on health look like? Well, it might include things like giving an independent commission the power to ensure that Medicare only pays for procedures with real medical value; rewarding health care providers for delivering quality care rather than simply paying a fixed sum for every procedure; limiting the tax deductibility of private insurance plans; and so on.
And what do these things have in common? They're all in last year's health reform bill.
That's why I say that Mr. Obama gets too little credit. He has done more to rein in long-run deficits than any previous president. And if his opponents were serious about those deficits, they'd be backing his actions and calling for more; instead, they've been screaming about death panels.
Now, even if we manage to rein in health costs, we'll still have a long-run deficit problem -- a fundamental gap between the government's spending and the amount it collects in taxes. So what should be done?
This brings me to the seventh word of my summary of the real fiscal issues: if you're serious about the deficit, you should be willing to consider closing at least part of this gap with higher taxes. True, higher taxes aren't popular, but neither are cuts in government programs. So we should add to the roster of fundamentally unserious people anyone who talks about the deficit -- as most of our prominent deficit scolds do -- as if it were purely a spending issue.
The bottom line, then, is that while the budget is all over the news, we're not having a real debate; it's all sound, fury, and posturing, telling us a lot about the cynicism of politicians but signifying nothing in terms of actual deficit reduction. And we shouldn't indulge those politicians by pretending otherwise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); TAX LAW (71%); BANK ROBBERY (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%); CHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



480 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 4355 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'The Book of Mormon' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on March 24. The ''South Park'' creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker team up with Robert Lopez (''Avenue Q'') to take on the Mormons. Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Jason Zinoman)20110217
'Ghetto Klown' Previews start on Monday. Opens on March 22. John Leguizamo returns to Broadway with a new comic solo show directed by Fisher Stevens. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20110217
'Good People' In previews; opens on March 3. Frances McDormand (''Fargo'') stars in David Lindsay-Abaire's new play about an unemployed woman and an old fling. Daniel Sullivan (''The Merchant of Venice'') directs. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20110217 
'The Hallway Trilogy' In previews; opens on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Adam Rapp's trilogy of plays -- ''Rose,'' ''Paraffin'' and ''Nursing'' -- in repertory, staged by Daniel Aukin, Trip Cullman and Mr. Rapp himself. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Zinoman)20110217
'Peter and the Starcatcher' Previews start on Friday. Opens on March 9. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct this play about how Peter Pan became the boy who would not grow up. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Zinoman)20110217
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' In previews; opens on March 15. The amazing ineptitude of Julie Taymor's riff on the anguished comic-book hero loses its shock value early. After 15 minutes, the central question you ask yourself is likely to change from ''How can $65 million look so cheap?'' to ''How long before I'm out of here?'' (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street , (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Ben Brantley)20110217
'That Championship Season' In previews; opens on March 6. Gregory Mosher's revival of Jason Miller's scathing sports drama focuses on a reunion of a high school basketball team. Brian Cox, Jim Gaffigan, Chris Noth, Jason Patric and Kiefer Sutherland star. Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20110217
'Vieux Carre' In previews; opens on Tuesday. The Wooster Group's version of this late play from Tennessee Williams arrives in New York accompanied by good buzz. Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Zinoman)20110217
'White People' In previews; opens on Feb. 24. Neil Cuthbert's dysfunctional family comedy focuses on a middle-class WASP clan in 1975. Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street , (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Zinoman)20110217
Broadway
'The Addams Family' Imagine, if you dare, the agonies of the talented people trapped inside this collapsing tomb of a musical. They include Nathan Lane, Bebe Neuwirth and Kevin Chamberlin, all shamefully squandered (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20110217
- 'American Idiot' A wonderfully raucous and gorgeously wrought rock opera adapted from the blockbuster album by Green Day. With minimal book, the director Michael Mayer and a terrific young cast explore the crisis of post-adolescence (1:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20110217
- 'La Cage aux Folles' Terry Johnson's inspired, Tony-winning revival of this 1983 musical, about family values as seen through the prism of a transvestite revue, delivers the unexpected lesson that in theater, shabby can be not just chic but also redemptive (2:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20110217
'Driving Miss Daisy' Those theatrical giants James Earl Jones and Vanessa Redgrave memorably portray the title character and her driver in David Esbjornson's revival of Alfred Uhry's 1986 work. If they feel squeezed or confined by what is a very slender play, they never let on. With Boyd Gaines (1:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, DaisyonBroadway.com. (Brantley)20110217
- 'The Importance of Being Earnest' Brian Bedford, as the magnificent gorgon Lady Bracknell, is giving one of the great performances of the season in this effervescent revival, which he directed, of Oscar Wilde's 1895 comedy of manners (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20110217
'Lombardi' Dan Lauria stars as Vince Lombardi in Eric Simonson's drama-deficient play about the venerated Green Bay Packers coach (1:35). Circle in the Square, 235 West 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20110217
'Long Story Short' The wry stand-up comic Colin Quinn brings an everyguy's perspective to this brisk tour of the follies of mankind dating back a couple of millenniums. Directed by Jerry Seinfeld, the show more or less lives up to its whimsical subtitle, ''History of the World in 75 Minutes'' (1:15). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20110217
'Million Dollar Quartet' A small-scale jukebox musical about a big day in rock 'n' roll history, when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam in the recording studio of Sun Records. The book resembles a standard-issue rock doc, but the music-making is fiery and the songs fun (1:30). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20110217
'Rain: A Tribute to the Beatles on Broadway' A tricked-up cover-band concert featuring four musical impersonators ably if impersonally working through a greatest-hits list. ''Beatlemania'' all over again (2:20). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street , (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20110217
Off Broadway
'Angels in America'Michael Greif's warm embrace of a revival of Tony Kushner's two-part theatrical epic is more accessible and less startling than the original. The production is like picking up a paperback version of a best seller you once devoured breathlessly: It's a good read, but you don't feel the same urgency (''Millennium Approaches,'' 3:00; ''Perestroika,'' 3:40). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 244-7529, SignatureTheatre.org. (Ben Brantley)20110217
'Apple Cove' The absurdist satire of Lynn Rosen's play and the cartoonish quirks of Giovanna Sardelli's production for the Women's Project are wrought with equally heavy hands. Set in a gated community, this depiction of a post-9/11 America infantilized by fear is neither funny nor clever enough to overcome having an unconvincing central character as its primary vehicle for rebellion (1:40). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)20110217
- 'Black Tie'A. R. Gurney's new comedy, one of his brightest in years, is a modest but deftly drawn depiction of the generational shifts among the subset of humanity -- white Anglo-Saxon Protestants of deep stock -- he has been writing about for many years. Daniel Davis is a delight as a paternal ghost giving unwanted advice about his grandson's wedding (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)20110217
'A Couple of Poor, Polish-Speaking Romanians' This 2006 intensity-fest by the controversial young Polish writer Dorota Maslowska makes its New York premiere. A charged all-night joy ride across Poland by the title characters gradually takes on darker shadings, solidifying Ms. Maslowska's credentials as a provocateur who needn't rely on shock value (1:50). Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side , (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org. (Eric Grode)20110217
- 'The Divine Sister' This gleefully twisted tale of the secret lives of nuns is Charles Busch's freshest, funniest work in years. Written by and starring Mr. Busch, ''Divine,'' which features a priceless Julie Halston and Alison Fraser, is paradise for those who imagine heaven as an endless swirl of beautifully bad old movies (1:33). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village , (212) 352-3101, divinesisteronstage.com. (Brantley)20110217
The Flying Karamazov Brothers This troupe uses its cheerful new show to crack wise, sing and dance, and juggle most anything at hand (1:45). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village , (800) 745-3000, fkb.com. (Ken Jaworowski)20110217
'Freckleface Strawberry' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book ''Freckleface Strawberry,'' about a 7-year-old redhead who earns that nickname from her teasing friends, this family show transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. It does so with a winning score, talented actors and inventive comedy, as well as an acknowledgment of the unfunny aspects of its young heroine's situation (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Laurel Graeber)20110217
'Freud's Last Session' This 75-minute play imagines a meeting between Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis. The two men debate the nature of God in a story that's sharp though static (1:15). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 10 West 64th Street , (212) 352-3101, freudslastsession.com. (Jaworowski)20110217
'Interviewing the Audience' The genial Zach Helm selects audience members for onstage interviews in this show inspired by the original production created by Spalding Gray. Collective revelation and collective boredom are both possibilities (1:10). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street , (212) 352-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Isherwood)20110217
- 'The Man Who Ate Michael Rockefeller' Who better to tell the story of Michael Rockefeller's disappearance than the people among whom he disappeared? Inverting the classic encounter between anthropologist and primitive culture, this production, directed by Alfred Preisser, has a light, sure touch even when it treads on weighty cultural ground (1:10). ArcLight Theater, 152 West 71st Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rachel Saltz)20110217
'The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore'Olympia Dukakis gives a fearless, vanity-free performance as the dying gorgon Flora Goforth in Tennessee Williams's patchy 1963 play about the anguish and fear that can attend our going forth into the unknown (2:15). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20110217
'Mistakes Were Made' The formidably talented Michael Shannon plays a crass, grasping theater producer in Craig Wright's intermittently funny but ultimately wearying showbiz satire (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20110217
- 'Molly Sweeney' This three-actor monologue play by Brian Friel, about a blind woman who undergoes an operation to give her sight, is revived in a wonderful and heartbreaking production, one that stays in the mind long after the applause ends (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Jaworowski)20110217
'My Scandalous Life' A premiere by the Irish playwright Thomas Kilroy, this unfocused monologue posing as three-dimensional drama purports to allow Oscar Wilde's lover, Lord Alfred Douglas, to have his say. But his muddled stream of soul-searching reflection, bitter rant and paranoid conjecture never coalesces into a lucid point of view or a compelling narrative (1:55). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)20110217
'The New York Idea' The playwright David Auburn has performed major cosmetic surgery on Langdon Mitchell's 1906 satire of divorce and matrimony, making it slimmer and lighter on its feet. He has also stripped it of most of its original, provocatively barbed personality. Mark Brokaw directs the amiable cast (1:45). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village , (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Brantley)20110217
'Once Five Years Pass' It's not often this marvelously strange Federico Garcia Lorca play is staged. How good to hear this Spanish poet's rhythms, as brought to muscular life by the Repertorio Espanol under the direction of Rene Buch. But English-speaking audience members beware: the live audio translation (via headphones) leaves much to be desired. Sunday only (1:25). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org/cinco. (Claudia La Rocco)20110217
- 'Other Desert Cities' The only problem with Jon Robin Baitz's seriously satisfying play is that you need to see it five times. That's because you never want to take your eyes off a single member of the five-person cast (Stockard Channing, Stacy Keach, Linda Lavin, Elizabeth Marvel and Thomas Sadowski) in this gorgeously acted drama, directed by Joe Mantello (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Brantley)20110217
- 'Play Dead' The magician Teller directed and helped create this gleefully gruesome frightfest for grown-ups, in which Todd Robbins, noted light-bulb eater and expert in sideshow freakishness, discusses death, afterlife and some particularly creepy historical figures while working some very effective tricks. Screaming is expected, and audience members are subject to being hauled onstage and ghoulishly murdered (1:30). Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Neil Genzlinger)20110217
'The Road to Qatar!' There was a funny show to be made out of the real-life experiences of Stephen Cole and David Krane, who in 2005 were hired to write an American-style musical to be staged in the Middle East. This misfire from the York Theater Company, though, isn't it. In writing a musical about the creation of a musical, Mr. Cole and Mr. Krane no doubt hoped to convey the zaniness of what they experienced, but all they really convey is a fondness for thudding ethnic stereotypes (1:45). York Theater Company at the Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street , (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Genzlinger)20110217
- 'Three Sisters'Austin Pendleton's wonderfully fresh and affecting production of Chekhov's 1900 drama gives the illusion of life happening as it happens, unscripted and untidy, funny and sad. The fine cast, which goes with this flow with convincing ambivalence, includes Jessica Hecht, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Juliet Rylance and Peter Sarsgaard (3:00). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village , (212) 352-3101, classicstage.org. (Brantley)20110217
- 'Through the Night' Daniel Beaty's poetic solo show about black men struggling with and taking charge of their lives is a thing of beauty. His wit, grit and piercing lyricism speak to African-American men, but his deepest meanings transcend race and gender. Monday only (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)20110217
- 'Way to Heaven' The prominent Spanish playwright Juan Mayorga (here translated by David Johnston) uses the example of Theresienstadt -- a concentration camp dressed up by the Nazis to appear as a Jewish utopia to Red Cross representatives and other visitors -- to explore a disturbing intersection between theatrical artifice and unspeakable evil. The direction is supple, the players are commendable, and the story is haunting. On Thursday (1:35). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street , (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/w2h. (Andy Webster)20110217
'What the Public Wants' The Mint's lifeless production of Arnold Bennett's comedy about a media baron who believes selling news is like selling soap (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 315-0231, minttheater.org. (Zinoman)20110217
'When I Come to Die' Nathan Louis Jackson's sober drama about death row is admirable for its unsentimentality, if short on theatrical verve. Chris Chalk plays an inmate whose execution goes awry (1:30). LCT3 at the Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street , (646) 223-3010, new42.org/duke. (Isherwood)20110217
'The Whipping Man' Matthew Lopez's atmospheric play depicts the evolving relationships between two former slaves (Andre Braugher and Andre Holland) and an ex-Confederate soldier (Jay Wilkison) in the immediate aftermath of the Civil War. The novelty: all three are Jewish (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)20110217
Off Off Broadway
'American Sexy' A moralizing drama worries over the hook-up culture of young people in the age of MTV's ''Skins'' (1:20). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa , (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Zinoman)20110217
- 'Baby Wants Candy' A talent-rich cast accomplishes the feat of an improvised musical, making it look effortless. Saturday only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village , (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com. (Zinoman)20110217
- 'In the Pony Palace/Football' Erin Markey shines as a ferocious wide receiver in this giddy, gender-bending portrait of high school football (1:10). The Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wycoff Avenues, Bushwick, Brooklyn , brownpapertickets.com/event/142273. (Zinoman)20110217
- 'Jackie Five-Oh!' Small roles and large grievances are the subject of Jackie Hoffman's uncensored reflections on her life and career as she celebrates ''her first 50th birthday'' in this caustic cabaret act. The show plays on the performer's nights off as Grandma in ''The Addams Family,'' allowing her to strike back at the critics whose withering reviews failed to cramp that Broadway musical's commercial potential, as well as the creative team for cruelly depriving her character of a song. Monday only (1:00). Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, joespub.com. (Rooney)20110217
'Korach' Sixty-three years after co-founding the Living Theater, Judith Malina is the writer and director of this pageantlike examination of the anarchist faction that took on Moses and lost. With more than two dozen performers at her disposal, Ms. Malina shows a rigorous eye for stage pictures -- and an occasional tin ear when it comes to dramatic nuance (1:20). The Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side , (212) 352-0255, livingtheatre.org. (Grode)20110217
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Eve Plumb's time as Jan on ''The Brady Bunch'' didn't give her the improvisational ease necessary for this show, in which she plays an advice-giver who draws her suggestions about love and romance from ancient etiquette guides and health manuals. Ms. Plumb never looks comfortable, and despite bits of audience participation, the show never feels spontaneous (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street , missabigailsguide.com. (Genzlinger)20110217
'My Last Play' Ed Schmidt announces he's retiring from the theater in a moving meditation on failure packaged in a theatrical stunt (1:10). In Mr. Schmidt's living room in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn , edschmidt.info/id5.html. (Zinoman)20110217
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Billy Elliot the Musical' Ballet dreams in coal country (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' This effective tear-jerker tells the story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village , (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.20110217
'Celebrity Autobiography: In Their Own Words' Comics and actors in a rotating cast read selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.20110217
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.20110217
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Gauguin/Savage Light' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.20110217
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, at Broadway , (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.20110217
'Love, Loss and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street , (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.20110217
'Memphis' A musical about an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.20110217
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110217
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, Second Avenue at Eighth Street, East Village , (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.20110217
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.20110217
Last Chance
'Blood From a Stone'; closes on Saturday. Keenly observed and flawlessly acted by a cast led by Ethan Hawke, Tommy Nohilly's drama examines in microscopic detail the snowballing conflicts within a blue-collar family. Despite an impeccable New Group production directed by Scott Elliott, the play grinds through its glum, familiar paces without generating much dramatic heat or emotional resonance (2:30). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20110217
'Dog Act'; closes on Sunday. Apocalypse, sacred vaudevillians and voluntary species demotion: these wonders and more can be found in the Flux Theater Ensemble's production of Liz Duffy Adams's dark comedy. The show offers plenty of amusements, but as the thinly constructed plot unfolds, they seem overslight and understrange (1:45). Flamboyan Theater, Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side , (866) 811-4111, fluxtheatre.org. (La Rocco)20110217
'Green'; closes on Saturday. Chris Harcum, writer and perfomer of this one-man show, has created a complicated, potentially fascinating future world, one in which planets are named for banks and Web sites and credit card companies. All we learn for sure, though, is that in this world, poverty is illegal, robots are snobs and the world of politics works pretty much the same as it does here and now (1:10). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 995-5302, metropolitanplayhouse.org. (Gates)20110217
'Gruesome Playground Injuries'; closes on Sunday. This blood-spattered twig of a play from the up-and-coming dramatist Rajiv Joseph follows the decades-spanning friendship of two made-for-each-other masochists (Pablo Schreiber and Jennifer Carpenter). Directed by Scott Ellis, the show is rarely more than skin-deep, however lacerated its skin (1:20). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Brantley)20110217
- 'The Merchant of Venice'; closes on Sunday. Daniel Sullivan's absolutely splendid production of Shakespeare's fascinating, irksome play combines subtlety with clarity, virtues that don't always walk hand in hand. And as Shylock, the usurer, and Portia, the heiress, Al Pacino and Lily Rabe are giving what promise to be the performances of the season (3:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20110217
'The Misanthrope'; closes on Sunday. The Pearl Theater delivers a solid primer on Moliere's classic comedy (2:10). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Zinoman)20110217
'The Witch of Edmonton'; closes on Sunday. The devil is a dog, a black mongrel inventively embodied by Derek Smith, in this sturdy and insightful production of a fascinating, seldom-seen Jacobean drama (by Thomas Dekker, John Ford and William Rowley), in which the supernatural melds with natural human urges. Directed by Jesse Berger for the resourceful Red Bull Theater (2:20). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street , (212) 352-3101, redbulltheater.com. (Brantley)20110217

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THREE SISTERS': Austin Pendleton's wonderfully fresh and affecting production of Chekhov's 1900 drama gives the illusion of life happening as it happens, unscripted and untidy, funny and sad. The fine cast, which goes with this flow with convincing ambivalence, includes Jessica Hecht, Juliet Rylance and, above, Peter Sarsgaard and Maggie Gyllenhaal (3:00). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, classicstage.org. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER (79%); RELIGION (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (72%); WRITERS (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: KIEFER SUTHERLAND (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



481 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Life Sentence For Leader Of Terror Plot At Kennedy

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
A man described by prosecutors as the ringleader of a plot to blow up fuel tanks at Kennedy International Airport was sentenced Thursday to life in prison.
As he had at his trial, the man, Russell M. Defreitas, 67, sat silently through his sentencing as Judge Dora L. Irizarry of Federal District Court in Brooklyn said ''the offenses that were contemplated here, that the jury found Mr. Defreitas guilty of, are extremely serious.'' 
Mr. Defreitas, a Guyanese immigrant and former cargo handler at the airport, was convicted in August of conspiracy to commit a terrorist attack after a trial in which prosecutors played secretly recorded conversations in which he planned the attack and described his hatred of the United States.
The recordings were made by a convicted drug dealer, Steven Francis, who worked as an informant and contributed some financial and logistical support to the plotters.
Four men were charged in the plot, including Mr. Defreitas and Abdul Kadir, who once served as mayor of Guyana's second largest city and as a member of the Guyanese Parliament.
Mr. Kadir was convicted of conspiracy and sentenced to life in prison. Another defendant, Abdel Nur, pleaded guilty to providing material support for terrorism and was sentenced to 15 years in prison. The fourth man, Kareem Ibrahim, has yet to be tried.
Prosecutors said Mr. Defreitas came up with a sinister plan intended to cause a chain reaction of explosions along a pipeline that runs between the airport and other parts of New York City. The conspirators hoped to destroy the country's economy, prosecutors said, and tried to contact Adnan G. el-Shukrijumah, a Qaeda operative with explosives training.
Parts of the conspiracy, as conceived by Mr. Defreitas, had bizarre aspects. He declared that he wanted the attack to be ''high-tech'' and ''ninja-style'' in execution, according to the tapes. At one point, he suggested that the plotters could create a diversion by flooding the airport's main terminal with a horde of rats.
At the trial, Mr. Defreitas's lawyers portrayed him as more disagreeable than dangerous; one of his lawyers described him as ''a man with a small mind, a big mouth and an ugly imagination.'' On Thursday, that lawyer, Mildred Whalen, asked Judge Irizarry to sentence her client to no more than 15 years.
''This was a group of people who were aspirational rather than operational,'' she said of the plotters. ''Until the government got involved, this was talk.''
Prosecutors disagreed, presenting a wide array of evidence during the trial, including hours of recordings. They showed that Mr. Defreitas had traveled to Guyana and Trinidad to seek support for the plot and had pushed it forward on numerous occasions, sometimes speaking with evident relish about his desire to cause death and destruction.
A prosecutor, Marshall L. Miller, said that Mr. Defreitas had steered the conspiracy and that the informant, Mr. Francis, had merely followed.
''The group took significant steps toward committing this offense,'' he said. ''They were acting not at the suggestion of the government, not at the behest of the government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (94%); JAIL SENTENCING (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); MAYORS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) GUYANA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



482 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: House Spending Impasse Raises Risk of Shutdown

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, said Thursday that Republicans would not agree to a short-term extension of the spending measure now financing the federal government without additional cuts, sharply raising the stakes in a war of wills with Democrats that officials say could lead to a government shutdown early next month.
The stopgap measure, which expires on March 4, has held spending generally to 2010 levels. 
House Republicans are close to approving a spending bill for the balance of the fiscal year that includes the largest spending cuts in modern history -- a swift, huge slash of more than $60 billion from domestic programs and foreign aid that they say would fulfill their campaign promise to shrink government outlays.
The bill, which covers spending through Sept. 30, seemed likely to be approved on Friday.
Democrats say such drastic cuts would harm the fragile economic recovery. The White House has already threatened to veto it, and Senate Democrats have voiced strong objections. Senate Democrats are expected to put forward a temporary extension of the stopgap measure that would prevent a government shutdown and allow continued negotiations.
But at a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Boehner said Republicans would not accept a temporary extension without additional reductions. ''When we say we're going to cut spending,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''Read my lips: we're going to cut spending.''
Mr. Boehner accused Democrats of seeking to shut the government to avoid making cuts.
Democrats have been warning for weeks that Republicans were willing to risk a shutdown by insisting on steep cuts without being willing to compromise.
''It is unproductive to resort to threats of a shutdown with any negotiations,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in a statement on Thursday.
If Mr. Reid puts forward a temporary extension of the stopgap measure, Senate Republicans would have to make a choice between blocking the bill with a filibuster or letting it pass and leaving their counterparts in the House to decide on shutting the government. Republicans were blamed for such a shutdown in 1995 during a standoff with the Clinton administration.
After working through Wednesday night and into the predawn hours on Thursday, lawmakers returned to the House floor and clashed fiercely over proposed amendments to the spending measure. A final vote was not expected until Friday, but with the new Republican majority resolute in executing big cuts, approval was a foregone conclusion. Because the rules of debate required that any restorations in spending be offset with corresponding cuts elsewhere, the total reductions were certain to exceed the roughly $60 billion originally included in the spending measure by the House Appropriations Committee.
While the final tally remained to be counted, there was no doubt that House Republicans would succeed in approving their bill after the sort of raucous, freewheeling debate that has been a rarity in the House in recent years. Rank-and-file lawmakers put forward hundreds of amendments, and the outcome of some votes went against the wishes of Republican leaders.
Mr. Boehner said the debate underscored his commitment to letting the House work its will. But long before the vote, he was boasting of the outcome. ''As part of our effort to liberate our economy from the shackles of out-of-control spending,'' he said, ''the House will soon vote to cut discretionary spending by over $100 billion over the last seven months of this fiscal year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011



483 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: On Long Island, Palin Opens Up and Plays Coy

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WOODBURY, N.Y. -- Sarah Palin did not visit Iowa or New Hampshire on Thursday, and she did not drop by South Carolina or Nevada. But inside a country club ballroom here, as she logged another stop as a paid speaker, she said she could not wait much longer to decide her future.
''Nobody is more qualified to multitasking and doing all the things that you need to do as president than a woman, a mom,'' Ms. Palin said to appreciative laughter, particularly among the women. She added with a smile, ''Maybe someone who's already run for something -- a vice-presidential candidate?'' 
No, she did not say whether she intended to upend the Republican race for president with a campaign of her own. And, no, she did not say when she would answer the question that has kept other prospective candidates in suspense. But she did suggest that the presumed candidates for 2012 might not have the intensity that voters are demanding.
And, she said, her decision could come sooner rather than later.
''Time on the ground is very important, and I'd be the first to not necessarily recommend a short amount of time,'' Ms. Palin said, recalling those chaotic days after she was chosen as the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 2008. ''People need to start making up their minds here pretty soon for that time on the ground, meeting with constituents and having time to pack their suitcases.''
For more than an hour on Thursday afternoon, she took questions not from Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity or Greta Van Susteren, who often interview her as an analyst on the Fox News Channel. Instead, she stepped away from her comfort zone and appeared before a bipartisan crowd of 1,000 business leaders at the Long Island Association and took questions from the group's president, Kevin S. Law.
She urged Congressional Republicans to oppose raising the nation's debt ceiling, declaring, ''It doesn't necessarily have to result in a government shutdown.'' Even if it did, she added, ''Let it be for a week or two.''
She conceded that a successful presidential bid could not be built through a digital campaign alone, saying that Facebook and other forms of social media could not reach enough voters. Asked if she would be the first Twitter president, she blanched and adopted a self-mocking tone. ''What a slogan: I tweet more than you tweet.''
She said it was unwise for Republicans to keep doubts alive about the authenticity of President Obama's birth certificate and citizenship, saying: ''It's distracting. It gets annoying. Let's stick with what really matters.''
And she called for the full repeal of the new health care law, revisiting the catchphrase that caused so much controversy during debate of the bill: ''When I talk about death panels, death panels was in quotation marks.''
Such lines are standard political fare, and Republicans may not give them a second thought on television. But on the front lines of a campaign -- whether in an Iowa living room or a New Hampshire diner -- voters often consider things with a different ear.
''What people are desiring to see is no more status quo -- not necessarily just seeing more players in these political machines, who are sort of preordained and get to be the ones who get nominated and go forth,'' Ms. Palin said. ''People are ready for our governmental establishment to kind of shake it up.''
Ms. Palin's afternoon appearance at the ballroom of the Crest Hollow Country Club, the site of numerous wedding receptions and bar mitzvahs, offered an atmosphere much like she would face if she decided to run for president. Despite her best-selling books, reality television show and hours of televised interviews, Ms. Palin is not yet a fully formed political figure, and her approval ratings could change -- for better or worse -- as a candidate.
The audience, which included many Democrats, responded with repeated applause. But there were also uncomfortable silences. She held up a Reader's Digest from February 1964, the month of her birth, which she used to make a point about reducing the deficit.
''We don't have to reinvent any wheels here to get the economy back on the right track,'' Ms. Palin said. ''The solution in here to fix the problem, you know what it is? You invest in a five-cent stamp and you write your congressman and you tell him, 'You're going to get fired.' Five cents back in the day! Nothing's changed. It's the same principles that can be applied.''
Robert Zimmerman, who represents New York on the Democratic National Committee, was in the audience and met with Ms. Palin at a reception before her talk. He said he was surprised by the Reader's Digest anecdote.
''She's really an Atlantic City lounge act for the right wing,'' Mr. Zimmerman said. Still, he said, Democrats should not to dismiss her potential, saying, ''Suburbs have the largest swing voters in the country, which concerns me.''
The Long Island Association, which bills itself as the state's largest business group, invited Ms. Palin to speak about a month ago. She was paid for her appearance, but organizers declined to disclose details of the arrangement. It was originally intended to be private, officials said, but Ms. Palin asked that it be opened to the media.
''I was actually surprised she got as much applause as she did,'' said Mr. Law, who asked Ms. Palin questions for 64 minutes. After escorting her to her car, he said: ''She told me she loved the format. She probably will do more of it because she did pretty well.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about an appearance by Sarah Palin at the Long Island Association misstated, in some editions, the given name of the president of the association, who interviewed her before an audience of business leaders. He is Kevin S. Law, not Peter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sarah Palin, in Woodbury, N.Y., said ''nobody is more qualified'' to be president than ''a mom.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (61%); DEBT CEILING (61%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



484 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: Why Does College Cost So Much?

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A conversation with Robert B. Archibald and David H. Feldman, economists at the College of William &#038; Mary and the authors of a book on the cost of college.

 BODY:
Robert B. Archibald and David H. Feldman are economists at the College of William & Mary, a public university in Virginia, and the authors of "Why Does College Cost So Much?" If you want the brief version, you could look at an op-ed article by the two economists for Inside Higher Ed or a summary of the book compiled by the University of Washington. The professors also talked about the book in this short video.
My conversation with them follows:
Mr. Archibald: The biggest reason that these services have experienced prices that rise more rapidly than prices in general is that increasing productivity in many services is very difficult. The service often is the time of the service provider, and you cannot use less of the provider's time without compromising the quality of the service. Also, the service providers in many of the relevant industries -- doctors, lawyers, dentists and college professors -- are highly educated, highly skilled workers. In the last quarter of the last century, economic forces generated rapidly increasing wages for highly educated, highly skilled workers. The combination of these two factors, slow productivity growth and rapidly expanding wages, results in rapidly rising prices. This should not be a surprise to most economists.There is a sense in which you are right. Colleges and universities and doctors and lawyers do not face competition from low-wage countries like China. Most personal services are not traded internationally. One does not go to China for a haircut or a conference with one's lawyer. Still, despite the fact that these services are protected from foreign competition, the more fundamental problem is slow productivity growth. If we could find a way of providing services of the same quality using less labor, price increases would be smaller.
Mr. Feldman: Let me take on the technology portion of the question more directly. Higher education certainly is affected by technological change, and this can indeed reduce cost. For instance, like most industries, we no longer use an army of typists to process paperwork. But the primary effect of technological change in higher education is not cost reduction. Instead, new technologies and techniques change what we do and how we do it. In many ways, colleges and universities are "first adopters" of new technologies because our faculty needs these tools to be productive scholars and teachers. Our students need these tools because they are used in the labor market they will be entering. In a sense, universities must meet an evolving standard of care in education that is set externally. The term "standard of care" is not an accident, since it reflects the way new techniques also affect the kindred service of medical provision.
Mr. Feldman: The real question is how we create access for people who could succeed in college if only they can get their foot in the door. The way we subsidize higher education can have a big impact on who gets to go to college.
Big state universities tend not to discount price on the basis of financial need nearly as much as the elite private schools, whose high and rapidly rising list prices garner so much of the headlines. Public universities generally use their state appropriation to reduce the tuition charged to in-state students, and they do this regardless of the student's ability to pay. As a result, when Flagship U tries to recoup some of its lost state appropriation through tuition hikes on all in-state students, this can have a big impact on lower-income families. 
State universities are beginning to emulate their private brethren by raising tuition and setting aside a good portion of their tuition increases for price discounts to less wealthy families. In these situations, prices can rise for affluent students without rising for many poorer students. A major constraint on doing this, however, is the reluctance of state legislatures to allow sufficiently high increases in the list-price tuition that wealthier families would have to pay.
Mr. Archibald: While financial aid may not be the complete answer to the access problem, if fixed, it could be very important. The biggest problem with our current financial aid programs is their complexity. Families have to make a series of decisions early in the process to help their children to become college material. Well-to-do families usually take care of this quite well. College is expected, and in most cases the expectation is realized. On the other hand, because they think they can never afford college, children from less well-to-do families do not take the steps one has to take to prepare for college. 
Federal financial aid is intended to change this. If less well-to-do families and their children had faith that government aid would be available, they could make the right early decisions. Unfortunately, federal financial aid does not have the desired effect on expectations. To obtain federal financial aid one has to fill out confusing forms. The amount of aid one actually qualifies for is determined by formulas that are very complex, so it is very difficult to know what will happen until the aid application process is finished. Also, each aid award is designed on a case-by-case basis, so it is hard to learn from the experience of others. 
Data show that students from less well-to-do families who stay with the process all the way through to the end and actually get financial aid awards go to college about as frequently as their classmates from higher income families. The difficulty is that many students with the ability to benefit from higher education drop out of the process before they make it to the end, or don't even start. Federal financial aid needs to be overhauled so that it is much easier for all families to understand. 
Mr. Archibald: A better financial aid process would be simple and universal. The Georgia HOPE Scholarship program is one example at the state level that is very popular and effective. Its success could be copied. A student in Georgia who has a B average or better in high school is eligible for a scholarship covering tuition and fees at a state supported institution in Georgia. This is simple. High school students and their parents know about it and can explain it. Also, it is universal. Every student with at least a B average is eligible, not just students from lower-income families. There is no complex application procedure and no uncertainty about the benefit. Lastly, there is good evidence that the Georgia HOPE scholarship has increased college attendance in Georgia. 
If we can copy this at the federal level, we will have a more effective financial aid system. The key is to keep things simple. We need to change how people plan for the future, and complex programs don't have the right effect on people's expectations. Also, it needs to be universal. If there is uncertainty about eligibility, the program will be less effective.
Mr. Feldman: People criticize programs like the HOPE scholarships on two grounds. First, they object to the grade requirement since it puts excess pressure on high school students and teachers. But grade requirements set at reasonable levels aren't going to cut out much of the "college material" population, and having some requirement may send a signal to students that they must be serious. In any case, an even more universal program that goes to all high school graduates would be fine with us. Universities could do their own sorting through the college application process.
The more important complaint is that a universal program is inefficient since some aid goes to students who do not need it. This is true, but the benefits of simplicity and universality must be weighed against any inefficiency. The current Pell Grant program is a means-tested process that directs public funds where they are most needed. Yet the Pell Grant has not done a good job of raising college-going rates among lower-income students. This reflects the complexity inherent in all means-tested programs.
A simple and universal federal grant program doesn't have to be large to be effective. It just needs to be a visible and predictable down payment on an education at a less expensive public institution. Universities themselves, and especially the more expensive ones, would continue to use the price discounting I talked about earlier to target students of limited means. That's O.K. Federal policy is about access to higher education, not choosing which school the student should attend.
Mr. Feldman: For starters, McDonald's and Chrysler don't care much about who buys their product as long as the customer can pay the price. Universities, on the other hand, care deeply about crafting the right freshman class. They want to create a diverse and stimulating educational environment for all students, because a lot of learning comes from interactions with peers inside and outside the classroom. Price discounting and merit scholarships are the tools that allow a school to select the incoming class carefully.
As a parent of a high school senior, I am very glad to see my son get offers of merit grants. But let me tell you the dark little secret about these grants. They do not create access to higher education for students who otherwise could not go. Merit-based price discounts only help determine which school a student attends. A fully funded need-based aid system is what would create real access for students who would otherwise be shut out or have to trade down to lower quality alternatives.
Lastly, the market for higher education today is much more competitive than it was 40 years ago. Today's students are much more likely to think regionally and nationally before selecting a school. Forty years ago a substantially higher fraction of the student population attended the small set of schools that were closer to their homes. 
Mr. Archibald: We do not think that it is likely that any government intervention could introduce more competitive pricing practices in higher education without causing other problems. 
Everyone has three objectives for higher education: lower tuition, higher quality, and less government spending on subsidies. The unfortunate truth is that we can have any two of these, but we can't have all three. If we mandate low tuition, we have to give on one of the other two. Either the government has to increase spending on subsidies, or the quality of the education schools will be able to provide will suffer. There are no easy choices. 

        
A Conversation With Tyler Cowen
        
Is College Tuition Too Low?
        
Pushing Colleges to Become More Diverse
        
Behind the Rise in Pell Grants
        
Economics for Sale 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%) Book Chat; colleges; David Feldman; financial aid; higher education; Robert Archibald; universities; Books and Literature; Colleges and Universities; Scholarships and Fellowships; Tuition; Archibald, Robert B.; Feldman, David H.; Why Does College Cost So Much (Book); Economix

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



485 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Forecast-Beating Profits Sustain a Market Rally

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced Friday, giving the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index its third consecutive weekly rally, as higher-than-estimated corporate earnings overshadowed the Chinese central bank's attempts to control inflation.
For the week, the Dow industrials and the Nasdaq were up a fraction of a percentage point.
United States stocks have risen three consecutive days, sending the S.& P. 500 to a 32-month high, as improving corporate earnings and manufacturing data overshadowed higher-than-forecast growth in consumer prices. Per-share earnings topped estimates at 72 percent of the 395 companies in the S.& P. 500 that reported results since Jan. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. 
''There's a bullish bias in the market fueled by higher-than-expected earnings,'' said Frederic Dickson, chief market strategist at D. A. Davidson & Company in Lake Oswego, Ore.
''People are waking up and realizing that things are stabilizing so they need to put money to work. There might be some optimism that China will not have a tsunami. There's a perception that by moving slowly and steadily they can curb growth back to a reasonable rate.''
Earlier in the day, stock index futures fell as China's central bank raised reserve requirements for lenders 10 days after raising interest rates to fight inflation.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 2/32, to 100 12/32, and the yield rose to 3.58 percent to 3.57 percent late Thursday.
Stocks of raw-materials producers had the biggest decline in the S.& P. 500 within 10 industries, dropping 1 percent.
The S.& P. 500 rose 2.58 points, or 0.19 percent, to 1,343.01. The index climbed 1 percent this week and needs to rise 0.7 percent, to 1,353.06, to complete a 100 percent rally from its March 2009 low.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 73.11 points, or 0.59 percent, to 12,391.25. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.37 points, or 0.08 percent, to 2,833.95.
The stock market will be closed on Monday for the Presidents' Day holiday.
On Friday, Caterpillar shares rose 2.4 percent, the biggest gain in the Dow average, to $105.86. The company said retail sales of machinery rose 49 percent worldwide in the three-month period ending in January.
Shares in Intuit, the maker of tax software, rose 7.3 percent -- the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500 on Friday -- to $54.11. It raised its forecast for full-year profit excluding one-time items to as much as $2.48. The average analyst prediction in a Bloomberg survey is for earnings of $2.41 cents a share.
Stock in Brocade Communications Systems rose 6 percent, to $6.38. The company, which makes switches for data-storage networks, forecast earnings of 10 cents a share excluding some items in its fiscal second quarter, beating the 9-cent average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Apple shares fell 2.2 percent, to $350.56. The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission are beginning to examine whether Apple's new media subscription service violates antitrust laws.
Shares of Campbell Soup sank 3.9 percent, to $33.58. Sales may fall as much as 1 percent, the company said. That compared with a previous forecast of at least a 1 percent gain. Earnings per share will fall as much as 3 percent, compared with an earlier target of a gain for up to 4 percent.
Fertilizer stocks slid on Friday as the price of wheat declined for a third time in four days on speculation that China's demand for grain and oilseed will ease after the country took steps to curb inflation.
CF Industries, a leading maker of nitrogen fertilizer, lost 6.7 percent, to $137.87. Mosaic shares fell 4.3 percent, to $83.02. And Monsanto, the world's largest seed company, lost 2.4 percent, to $72.39.
Policy makers from the Group of 20, at odds over global economic imbalances, confront a new threat as higher inflation is rippling from emerging markets to advanced economies.
A report of greater-than-expected United States inflation on Thursday followed an increase in the European cost-of-living index to a two-year high and a pickup in Chinese prices, further fraying a tentative global consensus over how to sustain the recovery.
The euro rose to a one-week high against the United States dollar after Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a member of the executive board of the European Central Bank, said the bank might need to raise interest rates as global inflation pressure mounts.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FUTURES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); RETAIL SALES (50%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: D A DAVIDSON & CO (69%); INTUIT INC (51%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



486 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Hyundai Lifts Alabama

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
MONTGOMERY, Ala. -- Few people in this city 800 miles south of Detroit cared much about the auto industry until Hyundai announced it would build cars here nine years ago.
These days, Montgomery cannot stop talking about it.
Hyundai and its sister company, Kia, which opened a plant last year just across the Georgia state line, have brought thousands of well-paying jobs to the region and even helped nurture a little Korean culture in Montgomery, the first capital of the old Confederacy. Hyundai is running its Montgomery plant almost nonstop. Rarely do more than a few weeks pass without word that another parts supplier has dozens of new positions to fill, typically offering good benefits and double the pay that the average Alabaman earns.
Hyundai, which will observe its 25th anniversary selling vehicles to American drivers on Sunday, was little more than an ambitious, second-tier brand when it chose to build its first United States car factory just south of Montgomery. But during the recent recession, the South Korean company thrived as Americans sought out cheap cars just as Hyundais were improving in quality.
In 2010, Hyundai and Kia each posted their highest sales in the United States and, taken together, surged ahead of Ford Motor to become fourth-largest automaker worldwide. Hyundai built 300,000 cars in Montgomery last year and sold most of them in the United States. 
''If folks looked deeply at how far we've gone so quickly, from having no U.S. production five years ago to where we are today, it's amazing,'' John Krafcik, chief executive of Hyundai Motor America, said. ''I don't know that any company has gotten to such a high level of local assembly as Hyundai that fast.''
While Michigan's dependence on the auto industry caused it to have one of the nation highest unemployment rates in recent years, the presence of Hyundai and Kia has helped Alabama keep its jobless rate among the lowest in the Southeast even as textile mills continue to close.
''As far as the pay, nobody else around here can compete with them,'' said Richard Watson, a former auto mechanic who was out of work for a year and a half before getting a temporary job at the Kia plant in West Point, Ga., last fall. He said some of his co-workers drove two hours each way because the plant's jobs were in such demand.
Hyundai is running its Montgomery plant, which employs 2,650, around the clock on weekdays and occasional Saturdays to keep up with demand. Last summer, it moved production of its Santa Fe sport utility vehicle 95 miles northeast to the Kia plant to free capacity in Montgomery. Kia recently hired 600 additional workers to operate a second shift for the Santa Fe and plans a third, with 1,000 more jobs.
Both carmakers expect to easily top their 2010 sales in the United States this year. Hyundai's sales were up 22 percent in January; Kia's rose 25.6 percent, the highest among the industry's larger players. Together, the two sold more than 65,000 vehicles, about 5,000 short of surpassing Chrysler.
Hyundai makes its own engines in Montgomery, and transmissions for its cars come from a Hyundai-owned company, Powertech, which is attached to the Kia plant. Alabama lists 138 suppliers that support the Hyundai plant, directly or indirectly. (Some also do business with the Honda and Mercedes plants near Birmingham and the Toyota engine plant in Huntsville.)
''These jobs have good salaries and good fringe benefits, and are more self-fulfilling'' than the ones that have left the area, said Seth Hammett, director of the Alabama Development Office. ''The automobile business has really been good for Alabama.''
More than 50 companies have followed Hyundai to the Montgomery area from Korea, with executives and their families in tow. The city's Korean population has jumped from about 100 before Hyundai to more than 3,000 today, said Su Yong Sim, president of the Korean-American Association of Greater Montgomery and a contractor who moved from Houston to help build part of the Hyundai plant.
About 10 Korean restaurants, a dozen Korean churches and a few small grocery stores like the Seoul Market, which stocks items as diverse as dried anchovies and toothpaste from Korea, have sprouted around town.
Jeannie Park, who opened a hair salon after moving here from Atlanta two years ago, sees a steady stream of female customers during the week, and men jam the shop on the weekends. She admitted that Montgomery lacked some of the excitement she was used to, but that the more Koreans move to town, the more she feels at home.
''It's more of a community here,'' she said.
In West Point, Ga., where the Kia plant sits on a former cow pasture, a sushi restaurant has opened among the 19th century storefronts downtown, and a former Pizza Hut across the Chattahoochee River is now the Korean BBQ House.
Kia arrived in West Point as the area was reeling from the closure of 12 textile mills that had formed the economic base for decades. After the mills sent their work to India and China, Kia moved in, offering better pay and benefits.
''A lot of really great things are happening now,'' said Ruthanne Williams, who opened the Irish Bred Pub at the center of West Point in 2009. ''It's been better than expected.''
With Kia raising the town's profile, Atlanta Christian College announced this month that it would relocate to West Point and renovate the abandoned headquarters of one of the textile companies that pulled up stakes. A Hyundai-owned supplier to Kia, Glovis, recently turned a sprawling empty mill a few miles away into a logistics hub, adding several hundred jobs.
Montgomery's recently struggling downtown, home to the Hank Williams Museum, has enjoyed a Hyundai-fed building boom, anchored by a new Renaissance Hotel where the televisions can be set to greet visiting executives in Korean.
Near the car plant on the south edge of town, a Hyundai subsidiary that makes electrical transformers is building a factory that was originally supposed to create about 500 new jobs. Even before construction began last year, the company had doubled that estimate, to 1,000.
The factory will undoubtedly receive a crush of job applications, much as Hyundai did when it was first increasing production.
''It was like a rock star was coming to town,'' said Ashley Frye, vice president of production for Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Alabama. Mr. Frye said that when he wore his Hyundai jacket or shirt around town, people often approached him to ask, ''Are you hiring? What can I do to get a job out there?''
For more than a year, workers at the Hyundai plant have been putting in 10 hours of overtime a week as part of their regular schedule, plus occasional Saturdays. With an average regular wage of about $20 an hour, the additional overtime hours mean workers here are earning more than many workers at the unionized plants up north.
For 2011, Hyundai is working to increase the plant's output by an additional 10 percent, or 30,000 vehicles, Mr. Krafcik, the chief executive, said.
The plant builds the Sonata midsize sedan, whose sales rose 63.8 percent in 2010, and the newly redesigned Elantra compact car, which is rated at 40 miles per gallon on the highway and has a starting price under $15,000. The Elantra is expected to be a fierce competitor to the new Ford Focus and the Chevrolet Cruze, both of which also break the 40 m.p.g. barrier.
Hyundai's leadership in both fuel economy and price is largely responsible for the company's growth. The company said the vehicles it sold in January had an average fuel economy of 34.7 m.p.g., meaning it is already close to meeting future government standards without a single hybrid car in its lineup. (The new gas-electric hybrid Sonata has already arrived at some dealerships.)
At the same time, the vehicles' quality -- the subject of a billboard alongside the freeway in front of the Montgomery plant -- has improved greatly, to the point that persuading shoppers to try a Hyundai is far easier, said Rob Butler, who has owned the Butler Hyundai dealership in Indianapolis since 1988.
''We're on a lot more shopping lists than we used to be,'' Mr. Butler said. ''Hyundai's really crashed through that old perception of what Hyundai used to be. Now, not only are they better-priced but they're a better car.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Feb. 19 about Hyundai's salutary effect on the economy of Alabama misstated the history of the United Automobile Workers in American plants operated by foreign carmakers, and a correction in this space on Saturday misstated the current union status of such plants. U.A.W. members have worked at several joint ventures involving American and foreign carmakers and in a Volkswagen plant in Pennsylvania that operated from 1978 to 1988; it is not the case that the U.A.W. has yet to succeed in organizing American plants operated by foreign carmakers. One plant in Normal, Ill., started as a joint venture involving Mitsubishi and Chrysler, continues to operate under Mitsubishi's control alone. It is thus not the case that no plants operated by foreign carmakers are currently unionized.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Hyundai plant in Montgomery, Ala., employs 2,650. It built 300,000 cars last year, and most sold in the United States. (B1)
 Top, Young Bambino prepares food at the Seoul Market in Montgomery, Ala., part of the city's growing Korean community. Center, Jeannie Park has a steady stream of customers at the Haniel Beauty Salon in Montgomery, which she opened two years ago after moving from Atlanta. Hyundai thrived during the recession because of its low prices and its rising quality. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHART: U.S. LIGHT VEHICLE SALES (Source: Motorintelligence.com) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (72%); RECESSION (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); TEXTILE MFG (67%); FABRIC MILLS (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); HYUNDAI CORP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); 011760 (KSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011



487 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Many See Economy Improving, but Not for Them

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
AMERICANS are becoming more optimistic about the prospects for the economy, but are still concerned about their own financial situation.
For the first time in six years, at least half of Americans questioned for the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index said they believed that business conditions had improved over the previous year, according to the preliminary results from the February survey. 
Similarly, the report found that more Americans thought the unemployment rate would fall than expected it to rise, with 29 percent forecasting a decline and 21 percent expecting an increase. Given how high the jobless rate was -- 9.0 percent in January, the last number released before the survey -- that may be something less than a ringing vote of confidence in the economic recovery.
But a plurality of Americans had not indicated a decline was expected since July 2004, when the rate was 5.5 percent. In October 2009, when the rate peaked at 10.1 percent, 36 percent of respondents expected the rate to continue rising, while just 16 percent expected a decline. Others either expected no change or had no opinion.
As can be seen from the accompanying charts, a majority of Americans consistently thought business conditions were getting better during the boom of the 1990s, but that was only intermittently true during the long expansion after the 2001 recession.
Similarly, during the recovery of the last decade, there was never a time when a majority believed their families were better off financially than they had been a year earlier, although it was normal for more to feel that way than to feel their condition had worsened.
Before the recent downturn, only once -- in early 1980, during a sharp recession accompanied by high inflation -- has a majority said their families were worse off financially than they had been a year earlier. But a majority felt that way for all but one of 18 consecutive months beginning in mid-2008, as the financial crisis took hold.
Even now, 37 percent say they are worse off, compared with just 28 percent who think they are doing better.
In the past, there were only a few times when an absolute majority of people thought they would not be able to keep up with inflation over the next year, and before the financial crisis, all of those times came when inflation was high. But now, 53 percent feel that way, while a record-low 8 percent think their income will rise faster than prices.
The reason for that seems to be largely based on worries about income rather than prices. Although expected inflation rates have been rising, a majority still expect prices to rise by 4 percent or less.
But many of those surveyed said they thought they could not keep up, even if there were no inflation. Nearly a quarter of the respondents expect their family income to decline over the next year. That is down a little from the height of the crisis, but is far above any level seen before 2008. Only 10 percent of Americans think their income will rise more than 5 percent. That is the lowest figure since the survey began asking that question in 1978.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Responses to questions from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index (Source: Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



488 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Slow-Pasteurized, Yes, But Is It Sustainable?

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
EDMUNDS, Me. -- Perched on the rocky coast of far eastern Maine, the farm owned by Aaron Bell and Carly DelSignore is stunning, both in its views of Cobscook Bay and in the distance that the milk they sell must travel to get on the shelves.
Their farm is a six-hour drive from most potential customers -- so far that their longtime processor, HP Hood, gave up on them in 2009, convinced that no one would never make a profit hauling milk such a vast distance.
But the married couple, part of the eighth generation to farm on Mr. Bell's family's land, is determined to keep dairy a viable industry here in Washington County. They are of a small, farmer-run outfit called Maine's Own Organic Milk -- MOO Milk for short -- which hopes to persuade New England foodies to pick up a carton of MOO's organic, local, slow-pasteurized milk instead of reaching for familiar national brands like Horizon Organic or Organic Valley.
So far, success has been elusive. Ever since its milk began hitting shelves in January 2010, the company has barely managed to stay afloat, relying on a mix of investor money, grants, charitable donations and the kindness of neighbors buying half-gallons in solidarity. 
''Our boat is made of duct tape and we've almost sunk a few times, but we're paddling along,'' said Mr. Bell, 33.
MOO Milk's journey is a cautionary tale: true grit, a laudable philosophy and a hot trend aren't enough to create a viable business.
''There are folks who support what we do, but there's not enough of them up here,'' said David Bright, a former newspaper reporter and the organization's treasurer. ''So far, I haven't been able to find 6,000 people who will buy a gallon of our milk each week.''
Organic milk sales are expected to grow by 10 percent this year, according to the Organic Trade Association. But the competition is cutthroat, and small players tend to struggle.
''Milk sells for a very, very small margin'' of profit, said Nancy Hirshberg, vice president for natural resources at Stonyfield Farm, a leading maker of organic dairy products. ''It's about high volume.''
MOO Milk got a lifeline in December, when 14 Whole Foods supermarkets in Massachusetts agreed to sell its milk. But it may not be enough to save it.
''The bankers don't really have the sense of urgency about what we're doing and that you have to feed these animals,'' Mr. Bright said. ''We're going to bleed out on the emergency room floor.''
Mr. Bell is trying to stay optimistic. He can't afford to give up yet -- he and his wife are expecting their fourth child in May, and they are still paying back a $250,000 loan they took out to start the organic operation. Plus, there are few alternative job prospects in Washington County, which has an unemployment rate of 10.3 percent.
''The stage is set,'' Mr. Bell said while driving a tractor on a frigid Sunday afternoon in January. ''We're a marketable brand. Our milk is good. We have a good, honest story. We have distribution and should be able to sell all of our milk in Maine, New Hampshire and Boston.''
Most of the farmers in MOO Milk got into the organic dairy business in 2005, when Hood approached them to help it meet the booming demand for all things organic. But when the economic downturn hit in 2008, consumers cut back on purchases of organic milk, which typically costs about $4 for a half-gallon, or double the cost of nonorganic milk.
Hood, which was processing the milk in Oneida, N.Y., ended the contracts. ''The demand for organic milk had decreased, therefore our need for organic milk had softened,'' said Lynne Bohan, a spokeswoman for Hood. In addition, distance was a factor. ''There are certainly efficiencies in procuring milk from farmers who are closer to our plant,'' she said.
Nine of the farmers decided to go it alone and set up MOO Milk.
The organization started on donations, including $50,000 from Stonyfield. MOO worked out a deal with a local milk truck driver to haul the product, and Smiling Hill Farm, a Maine dairy, lets MOO use its processing facility two days a week. MOO also uses a different pasteurization system than most other dairies. Rather than flash-pasteurize, it slowly heats the milk, resulting in what its farmers say is a creamier product.
But the company has little money for advertising, and it has struggled to persuade customers to choose MOO milk over its rivals.
''If you go to the milk cooler in your store and you walk up to it, all you see is a wall of white with little gobs of color on it. Your mind focuses on the label that's in your refrigerator,'' Mr. Bright said.
On a dreary Wednesday at the end of January, the organization's chief executive, Bill Eldridge, was trying one time-honored tool in the food marketer's arsenal: free samples.
''Would you like to try some milk?'' Mr. Eldridge, dressed in a white fisherman's sweater and jeans, asked shoppers at a Whole Foods next to Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
Dozens of people stopped at the table, picking up a small paper cup of milk and grabbing a cookie. One woman told Mr. Eldridge the milk tasted like what she used to drink as a child, and another put back the milk she had in her cart and purchased MOO instead.
''Our product does do the talking for us,'' Mr. Eldridge said. ''It's a not particularly hard sell. Just let people taste our milk.''
Since MOO Milk began, three farmers dropped out of the co-op. The six who remain are still waiting for a few months' worth of paychecks and are lagging far behind on their bills.
''It would be nice,'' Ms. DelSignore said, ''to be putting money in our pockets for the amount of work we do.''
In addition to the Whole Foods deal, MOO is hoping to get a boost from outside investors. The company is in talks with Coastal Enterprises Inc., a nonprofit organization, to invest $150,000. But under the proposed terms, MOO must first find other investors, Mr. Eldridge said.
Ronald L. Phillips, president of C.E.I., would not provide details of the negotiations with MOO but he said he viewed the co-op as a way to support local agriculture.
''We're talking economic development here for lower-income communities, for rural areas, not just the product itself,'' Mr. Phillips said. Heather McCready, a spokeswoman for Whole Foods, declined to give sales numbers for MOO milk, and she said it was up to individual dairy managers to decide whether to stock it.
''Whole Foods Market seeks to support small, struggling New England organic dairy farmers,'' Ms. McCready said in an e-mail message. ''We believe in the goals of this cooperative. MOO Milk produces a product that meets our quality standards.
While the mood at MOO seems to change by the day, all involved said they wouldn't be making such sacrifices if they were not convinced that it would survive and that more people would become interested in supporting local, sustainable agriculture.
''If we can hold everything together, I really think that we're going to make it,'' said Herb McPhail, one of the MOO Milk farmers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aaron Bell, above, and Carly DelSignore, left, who are married, are determined to keep dairy a viable industry in Washington County, Me. ''Our boat is made of duct tape and we've almost sunk a few times, but we're paddling along,'' Mr. Bell said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT MCINNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); MILK (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (89%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); CHARITIES (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



489 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
ALGERIA KEEPS SULLEN CALM
Amid Neighboring Unrest
Even as North African neighbors have smoldered, Algeria has kept a sullen calm in the wake of a stifled protest march here last week, with the regional upheaval, for now, not catching on. Although olice officers are expected to be deployed, pro-democracy activists and a handful of opposition parties vow to go ahead with a planned march on Saturday. Page A4
MONEY EXCHANGE SANCTIONS 
The Treasury Department imposed sanctions against one of the largest money exchange houses in Afghanistan, along with 15 of its executives, on charges that it used billions of dollars transferred in and out of the country to help hide proceeds from illegal drug sales. Page A8
AFGHAN ATTACKS KILL 18
Attacks in four parts of the country left at least 18 people dead, including four NATO service members, four Afghan police officers and 10 civilians, signaling the tenaciousness of the insurgency even through the winter. Page A8
JAPAN WHALING IS STYMIED
Japan will cut short this year's annual whale hunt in the Antarctic Ocean after obstruction by an environmental group largely prevented its ships from killing whales, the government said. This the first time that environmentalists have succeeded in cutting short the annual hunts, which Japan says are necessary for scientific research. Page A9
CHINA UPHOLDS CONVICTION
In a case that has prompted a number of appeals from the White House, a Chinese court upheld the conviction of an American oil geologist sentenced to eight years in prison on charges of industrial espionage after he obtained an oil industry database for his employer, IHS Energy, a consulting company in Colorado. Page A9
National
2008 HEALTH RULE REVOKED BY OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
The Obama administration rescinded most of a 2008 rule that granted sweeping protections to health care providers who opposed abortion, sterilization and other medical procedures on religious or moral grounds. Page A11
U.S. EGYPTIANS EYE RETURN
Profound questions are rising for Egyptian immigrants, many of whom left the country to escape an autocratic government and have built a prosperous life in the United States. After weeks of watching events thousands of miles away unfold on television, another thought nags at them: Is it time to go home? Page A11
TROUBLE FOR PUBLIC UNIONS
In the half-century since Wisconsin became the first state to permit its public employees to bargain collectively, government employee unions have mushroomed in size and power. Now, a legislative push by Wisconsin's new governor could prove a watershed for public-sector unions, perhaps signaling the beginning of a decline in their power -- both at the bargaining table and in politics. A News Analysis. Page A12
New York
INDIAN CASINO IN CATSKILLS
Rejected by Government
The federal government rejected a proposal to build an Indian casino in the Catskills, nullifying a deal reached in the waning days of the Paterson administration to settle a land claim by a tribe based in Wisconsin. Page A16
Obituaries
PERRY MOORE, 39, PRODUCER
Mr. Moore was an executive producer of the fantasy movie series ''The Chronicles of Narnia'' and the author of ''Hero,'' a book about a gay superhero. Mr. Moore, who was gay, wanted to see gay superheroes, who had been appearing in comic books for some time, portrayed in a better light. Page A17
Business
FEDERAL RESERVE WARNING
On Money-Flow Imbalances
With the world's economies moving at two different speeds, fast-growing developing countries are luring money at a pace that, if left unchecked, could set the stage for future problems, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said. Page B1
JUST BENEATH THE CLOTHING
In the world of mannequin makers, Bonaveri is among a handful of companies whose brands are as recognizable as the fashion designers whose styles their models show off. Like Ferraris, Bonaveri mannequins are all about exclusivity and flash. They also have to communicate a subtle message that will lure customers into a shop. Page B1
SHORT ON GREEN ELEMENTS
Technologies for green or renewable-energy devices like batteries, solar cells and advanced electric motors are dependent on critical metals and other elements that are threatened by major shortages, two influential American scientific groups said in a report. Page B1
Arts
MOVIES THAT TAKE A CUE FROM CELLPHONE CAMERAS
In at least nine recent and forthcoming films, Paramount appears to be reaching toward an audience that was raised on flip-phone cameras, YouTube and a belief that everything, ultimately, belongs inside the frame. It looks as though a genre may be forming: movies that get their impact by seeming to catch their subjects by surprise. Page C1
SEAPORT MUSEUM STRUGGLING
For more than a decade, the Seaport Museum New York has struggled to keep going, but the situation has deteriorated. Over the last three weeks, seven of the 21 trustees resigned from the board, and the museum furloughed half of the staff. Future exhibitions have been put off, and the museum has effectively eliminated its curatorial and development departments. Page C1
Sports
CUOMO FACES A NEW TEST
In Madoff-Mets Standoff
Mario M. Cuomo, the former New York governor, has made a career of brokering solutions to tense standoffs. In the coming weeks, his skills will be tested anew when he tries to resolve the bitter $1 billion legal fight between the owners of the Mets and the trustee trying to recoup money for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's financial fraud. Page B9
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A19
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); CASINOS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); POLITICS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); SENTENCING (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); HEALTH CARE (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); ESPIONAGE (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); ABORTION (62%); GOVERNORS (61%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); SOUTHERN OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (65%) EGYPT (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); ANTARCTICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



490 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: WISCONSIN LEADS WAY AS WORKERS FIGHT STATE CUTS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Michael Luo and Kate Zernike contributed reporting from New York, and Monica Davey from Wisconsin.

 BODY:
The unrest in Wisconsin this week over Gov. Scott Walker's plan to cut the bargaining rights and benefits of public workers is spreading to other states.
Already, protests erupted in Ohio this week, where another newly elected Republican governor, John Kasich, has been seeking to take away collective bargaining rights from unions.
In Tennessee, a law that would abolish collective bargaining rights for teachers passed a State Senate committee this week despite teachers' objections. Indiana is weighing proposals to weaken unions. Union members in Pennsylvania, who are not necessarily facing an attack on their bargaining rights, said Friday that they planned to wear red next week to show solidarity with the workers in Wisconsin.
In many states, Republicans who came to power in the November elections, often by defeating union-backed Democrats, are taking aim not only at union wages, but at union power as they face budget gaps in the years ahead. 
The images from Wisconsin -- with its protests, shutdown of some public services and missing Democratic senators, who fled the state to block a vote -- evoked the Middle East more than the Midwest.
The parallels raise the inevitable question: Is Wisconsin the Tunisia of collective bargaining rights?
Governor Walker, in an interview, said he hoped that by ''pushing the envelope'' and setting an aggressive example, Wisconsin might inspire more states to curb the power of unions. ''In that regard, I hope I'm inspiration just as much as others are an inspiration to me,'' he said.
FreedomWorks, a Washington group that helped cultivate the Tea Party movement, said it was trying to use its lists of activists to turn out supporters for a variety of bills aimed at cutting the power of unions -- not just in Wisconsin, but in Tennessee, Indiana and Ohio as well.
And officials seeking to curtail labor's power in other states said that by focusing attention on public-sector unions, the tense standoff in Wisconsin could give them momentum.
''We think that what's going on in Wisconsin actually helps us here in Ohio,'' said Rob Nichols, a spokesman for Governor Kasich, who is supporting a bill that would limit collective bargaining rights.
But Wisconsin is also proving to be a catalyst for Democrats and labor leaders, as they take heart from the way thousands of workers have rallied to the cause.
With the falling popularity of unions in recent years, some union leaders see the attempt to take away bargaining powers as an effort that could shift the question from whether public-sector workers are overpaid to whether they should have the right to negotiate contracts at all.
To that end, unions and Democrats are preparing their own post-Wisconsin campaigns in a number of states against what President Obama called ''an assault on unions'' in a television interview this week.
As Gerald W. McEntee, the president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the main union of state employees, put it: ''Workers' rights -- including the fundamental right to organize and bargain for better pay, benefits and working conditions -- are under attack in states from Maine to Ohio, from Wisconsin to Florida.''
Governor Walker's plan would limit collective bargaining for most state and local government employees to wages, barring them from negotiating on issues like benefits and work conditions. It would also require workers to contribute more to their pension and health care plans, cap wage increases based on the Consumer Price Index and limit contracts to one year. And it would take on the power of unions by requiring them to take annual votes to maintain certification, and by permitting workers to stop paying union dues. Police and fire unions, which have some of the most expensive benefits but who supported Mr. Walker's campaign for governor, are exempted.
''If they succeed in Wisconsin, the birthplace of A.F.S.C.M.E., they will be emboldened to attack workers' rights in every state,'' Mr. McEntee said. ''Instead of trying to work with public employees at the bargaining table, they've decided to throw away the table.''
On paper, Wisconsin might seem an unlikely candidate for an assault on unions. Like many other states, it has grappled with large spending gaps during the economic downturn, but its projected deficits for the next two years are nowhere near the worst in the country -- more like in the middle of the pack.
Its 7.5 percent unemployment rate is below the national average. Its pension fund is considered one of the healthiest in the nation, and it is not suffering from the huge shortfalls that other states are facing.
Those facts have groups on both sides thinking if it can happen there, it can anywhere.
In Columbus, Ohio, Tea Party organizers said they had 300 to 500 people turn out on Thursday for a counterdemonstration against several thousand union members.
''We weren't well-versed in everything about the bill and why they're doing what they're doing except that we're broke as a state,'' said Adriana Inman, an organizer with the Fairfield Tea Party in Southwest Ohio, who attended the rally. She said that her group had many union members.
Some union members who are trying to preserve their rights have been cheered by what they have seen in Wisconsin.
Joe Rugola, executive director of the Ohio Association of Public School Employees and an international vice president of A.F.S.C.M.E., said that 4,000 protesters gathered at the Columbus Statehouse on Thursday to preserve union rights. ''Yesterday at the Statehouse, everyone was talking about the images they had seen in Wisconsin, and it gave them great heart and made folks determined to equal that effort.''
Tennessee, a right-to-work state, where workers cannot be required to join a union, is likely to become a staging ground for a collective bargaining battle.
State Senator Jack Johnson, a Republican who sponsored a measure to curtail collective bargaining rights for teachers, said he expected the bill to become law. ''Collective bargaining between teachers and the school boards has been an absolute dismal failure,'' he said.
In Indiana, Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican who is considered a possible presidential candidate in 2012, issued an executive order on his first day as governor in 2005 that ended collective bargaining for state employees. Now he is supporting a measure to limit negotiations by teachers to wages and benefits. Some state lawmakers have called for steps that would go further, but Mr. Daniels has said that he does not think their legislation should be passed this year because it has not been publicly vetted.
Not all new Republican governors plan to take aim at collective bargaining rights.
In Pennsylvania, which faces a $4 billion deficit, a spokesman for Gov. Tom Corbett, the state's new Republican governor, said the governor wanted to shrink the government while being mindful of a 40-year-old law giving state employees the right to organize.
''We'll begin negotiations with the public-sector unions and anticipate we'll conduct those in good faith,'' said Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Governor Corbett.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Natalie Gandolfo, 22, a protester at the Capitol in Madison, Wis., on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINESH RAMDE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) CHART: Not Just Wisconsin: When calculated as a percentage of a state's total budget, Wisconsin's projected shortfall is not among the worst in the nation. (Source: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (88%); JOHN KASICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



491 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Warns G-20 On Flow Of Money

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Steven Erlanger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- With the world's economies moving at two different speeds, fast-growing developing countries are luring money at a pace that, if left unchecked, could set the stage for future problems, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Friday.
Mr. Bernanke also defended again the Fed's steps to bolster economic growth in the United States, this time at a central banking conference here before a meeting of the Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers. The Fed has kept interest rates low and made money more available to encourage domestic growth even as many other countries have grown increasingly worried about inflationary pressures and taken some steps to curb growth.
China and other emerging markets have blamed the Fed's strategy for sending waves of capital rushing to their shores, creating a threat of inflation. But Mr. Bernanke said the influx of capital appeared to be driven more by investors' desire to get a higher return in emerging economies than by the Fed's policies.
He admonished emerging nations to acknowledge that they have ''a strong interest in a continued economic recovery in the advanced economies,'' and said they should consider deploying their own tools -- including adjusting the level of their currency -- to manage their economies and prevent overheating. 
Mr. Bernanke did not mention China in his remarks, although they appeared to be a veiled reference to Beijing's policy of keeping its currency, the renminbi, artificially low to gain a trade advantage. As Mr. Bernanke spoke, the Chinese central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, appeared on the same stage.
The extent to which advanced economies are lagging emerging markets is a major preoccupation among policy makers here. The United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, told the group that forecasts for growth of about 5 to 7 percent in emerging markets, 3 to 4 percent in the United States, and 1 to 2 percent in Europe this year seemed accurate to him. The question, he said, was: ''How do we get sustainable durable growth in the advanced economies?''
In a star-studded lineup from the world of economic policy makers, the central bank governors of Britain, France, Japan and China, as well as Jean-Claude Trichet, the governor of the European Central Bank, took turns underscoring their worry that the uneven nature of global growth could undermine the recovery.
Mervyn King, the governor of Britain's central bank, said China was pursuing structural reforms slowly while countries like the United States and Britain, facing the prospect of high unemployment, favor a quicker adjustment path. There is a risk, he added, that this conflict will result in persistently high levels of unemployment if advanced nations fall even further behind.
Mr. Bernanke said a way to address imbalances in global growth was for countries that export more than they import to allow their currencies to reflect overall economic performance. He also urged those with large trade deficits to increase their savings and put their fiscal policies on more sustainable paths.
The Fed chairman said countries maintaining undervalued currencies had ''contributed to spending that's unbalanced and unsustainable,'' which, together with surging demand in fast-growing emerging markets, was fueling a worrisome rise in commodity prices.
''Spillovers can go both ways,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''Resurgent demand in the emerging markets has contributed significantly to the sharp recent run-up in global commodity prices.''
Meanwhile, countries that have allowed market forces to determine the level of their money have been penalized by seeing their competitiveness erode, he said.
Mr. Zhou later appeared to concede the point, to a degree. He noted that Chinese exporters complained that they would all go out of businesses if the government were to allow the renminbi to rise by 3 percent. ''But then that happens and then they survive,'' he said. In fact, he added, ''they have room to improve and survive.''
Policy makers in advanced economies have been calling on China to stoke demand from within its own country to even out its trade dominance. Mr. Zhou said China was working on that. ''One day we'll have a domestic market too, depending on price elasticity,'' he said.
China could also shift from an export-dominated manufacturing economy to a more service-oriented one to meet domestic needs. ''But that would be slow, it would take 10 years at best,'' Mr. Zhou said.
Officials from the Group of 20 are gathering here Friday and Saturday, and are trying to come to an agreement on a set of ''indicators'' to help identify when economic and financial developments in some countries would pose problems for all the others. Among other things, European officials have proposed monitoring a country's current-account balance, its public deficit and debt, the savings ratio, net foreign assets and real exchange rates.
But Beijing is fighting against using exchange rates and currency reserves as a measure. These have become an issue of contention for other countries that see China using its exchange rate to stoke exports, even as trade deficits and surpluses have started to rise in many countries.
''We're trying to build a system that has a better balance of exchange rate policy in large emerging countries,'' Mr. Geithner said.
Both China and Germany have batted down calls from the United States to cap current-account surpluses or deficits at a certain percentage of economic growth.
Christine Lagarde, the finance minister of France, which is presiding over the meeting this year, warned that if countries stuck to ''business as usual,'' the world risked falling into a debt crisis.
''The more desirable scenario is that deficit countries curb and reduce debt, and surplus countries are prepared to boost their domestic demand,'' she said. ''Where collective gains are possible, global growth would be reconciled by a reduction of imbalances,'' she said.
Officials are also focused on how to improve oversight of the banking system to mend problems that emerged from the recent financial crisis and prevent another one from emerging in the coming years.
''How do you fix oversight? That's the problem,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''The rules have to be designed better and applied more uniformly across countries.''
He said that the American system of overseeing its banks was ''very complicated,'' and that it would be better to make oversight more integrated. But the United States approach of giving tough love to its banks seems to have worked: Citigroup and others, which taxpayers supported with huge bailouts during the depths of the crisis, have yielded a return to the Treasury.
Europe, by contrast, seems to have much less tolerance for allowing the failure of its financial institutions. European banks have been a source of worry as the region grapples with a sovereign debt crisis that has seen Greece and Ireland take bailouts, creating fears that many banks still face unreported losses.
At the same time, Mr. Geithner said Europe was making ''some progress'' in exiting the crisis, and noted that markets were showing ''confidence that Europe is meeting the challenges.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy, right, meeting with central bank governors on Friday in Paris at the start of a Group of 20 meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



492 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: For Autistic Children, a School's Coffee Shop Imparts Skills While Raising Money

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
EDISON, N.J. -- The coffee shop at Woodrow Wilson Middle School is serious about service with a smile. When Edward Lin, a seventh grader, stared silently at his feet the other day instead of greeting a customer, his teacher prodded him.
''How can I help you?'' the boy mumbled, still staring at his feet. 
His teacher prodded him again. Edward looked up. Then he wrote out the customer's order and, finally, broke into a smile, braces and all.
Edward is in a special class for children with autism or multiple learning disabilities that is charged with running the coffee shop every Friday morning. Setting up in the home economics room, Edward and 11 classmates have rung up more than $1,000 in sales of coffee, tea, doughnuts, cookies and cupcakes to the school's staff since October. On request, they deliver to classrooms.
The coffee shop was the idea of their teacher, Thomas Macchiaverna, 26, who saw it as a means to instill not only social niceties in children who often have difficulty with human interaction, but also business acumen and life skills beyond the classroom. ''The overall goal here is to make these kids functional members of society,'' he said. ''It's a different avenue than the standard educational curriculum. It's outside the box, which you have to be with this kind of program.''
The profits from the coffee sales -- averaging $100 a week -- have helped pay for things like a recent bowling trip and a Thanksgiving feast for the class; as part of cost-cutting this year, the Edison district eliminated money for field trips.
The Edison coffee shop illustrates how schools across New Jersey are finding ways to expand their special education programs and services outside the traditional classroom to better serve students with autism and severe learning disabilities, many of whom were once sent out of the district to costly, specialized programs.
At Northern Burlington Regional High School in Columbus, special education students run their own auto-detailing shop on site, cleaning dozens of cars a year owned by parents and school staff. And along the Jersey Shore, students with autism at Southern Regional High School in Manahawkin started their own ice cream business and opened a gardening center where they grow plants and vegetables to sell; in the past three years, they have earned about $10,000 to support activities.
But such efforts have fallen short in other schools, prompting Gov. Chris Christie last month to propose as an alternative the creation across the state of more public schools devoted to students with autism, to ease the financial pressure on districts and to ensure quality of instruction.
Statewide, as diagnoses for autism spectrum disorders have risen, the overall number of special education students has increased 3.5 percent to 199,207 since 2008, while out-of-district placements have increased by 1.5 percent to 14,615 during that same period, according to state statistics.
In Edison, 80 of the 850 students at Woodrow Wilson Middle School receive special education services. The school started a self-contained special education class last year that now has a dozen students, all boys between 11 and 13 years old. Academically, their reading and math skills range from first to seventh grade, said Mr. Macchiaverna, who is called ''Mr. Mac.''
The new coffee shop got off to a shaky start. The first day it opened, the machine was mistakenly unplugged, and there was almost no coffee. The next week, the school had no drinkable tap water after a flood in the area, but teachers saved the day by bringing jugs of bottled water from home. And then came the snow days and delayed openings.
The coffee itself was once so dark that it got complaints. And one student spilled hot water on his leg and had a mild burn, despite supervision by Mr. Macchiaverna, two assistant teachers, a speech teacher and a life-skills teacher.
But since then, the coffee has improved and the students have settled into a comfortable routine.
On a recent Friday, the coffee shop opened for business with folksy music (think Cat Stevens) playing over speakers. Teachers like to pass time there during their free periods, drawn as much by the convenience as the friendly service. Fifteen have standing orders. Others donate the doughnuts and handmade pastries for sale.
''The teachers love it,'' said Cori Jensen, a music teacher, with a $2 cup of tea in hand. ''We wish we could have it every day.''
The students take turns doing the various jobs in the coffee shop. Mr. Macchiaverna pointed out the lessons built into each one. For instance, the students at the cash register use their math skills to make change, while those delivering coffee learn to navigate the school.
And above all, he said, they practice people skills. Even here, customers can be demanding.
''I want a bacon, egg and cheese on a bagel,'' said Michael Franciscus, the gym teacher, who orders off the menu every week just to joke with the students.
''We don't have any; we have coffee,'' replied Norman Shamy, 12, looking perplexed.
''Irish coffee? Cafe latte?'' Mr. Franciscus continued. He settled for a $1 cupcake.
''He's funny,'' said Norman, adding that the shop was his favorite part of school because, ''I like talking to the customers.''
Jenni Carlock, Noman's stepmother, said that he looked forward to the coffee shop days. ''It gives him direction and teaches him leadership skills,'' she said.
Patricia Cotoia, the school principal, is a coffee shop regular. ''It's not about the coffee or the cookies, it's about the interaction and seeing how capable the kids are,'' said Ms. Cotoia, who will invite parents to the shop in the spring.
''We may have to switch to iced coffee in May,'' she said, ''but we'll get there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two students, Jose Villar, left, and Collins Darkwa, sell coffee and pastries from the shop at Woodrow Wilson Middle School. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); AUTISM (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (78%); SALES FIGURES (74%); COFFEE (73%); CAR WASHES (73%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (70%); ICE CREAM (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (66%); THANKSGIVING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



493 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Finances Could Sink Seaport Museum

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
For more than a decade the Seaport Museum New York has struggled to stay afloat. But it has never looked closer to going under.
Over the last three weeks seven of the 21 trustees resigned from the board, and on Monday the museum furloughed 32 employees -- half of the staff. Future exhibitions have been put on hold, the museum has effectively eliminated its curatorial and development departments.
On Thursday Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, New York City Cultural Affairs Commissioner Kate D. Levin and Frank J. Sciame, the Seaport Museum's chairman for the last four years, met at City Hall to discuss its future.
In an unusual move for a museum chairman, Mr. Sciame, a real estate developer whose company has projects near the seaport, has lent the museum $3 million since March to cover operating expenses like payroll. Depending on whom you ask, he is either saving the Seaport Museum or sealing its doom. 
''There's no question that we are dealing with some significant hurdles,'' said Peter Gates, who remains on the board. ''Frank has brought a truly remarkable level of energy, determination and judgment to the museum. These qualities combined with his great generosity have kept the museum going, and we are grateful to him.''
''Frank Sciame is doing incalculable harm to the Seaport Museum,'' said one furloughed employee, who did not want to be identified because of fear of reprisal for speaking publicly. ''He has refused overtures from the city to help stabilize the museum and has driven away trustees who resent his high-handed and confrontational manner. It's hard to kill a nonprofit, but Sciame is well on the way to accomplishing just that.''
The museum -- at 12 Fulton Street and formerly named the South Street Seaport Museum -- explores the city's maritime history through artifacts and a fleet of 11 vessels, including historic ships and service boats. It has always been small, catering to tourists and to New York maritime buffs. In the wake of 9/11, it weathered particularly rough seas.
In 2004 it closed its library building and gave away its collection of two million artifacts excavated in Lower Manhattan. It also eliminated several major staff positions to reduce its budget by $1 million. In 2005 it offered its antique ships for adoption, asking New Yorkers to pay for maintenance of a favorite ship.
In 2008 it ran a deficit of $1 million and the following year had revenue of just $280,000 on a budget of $5.2 million. For 10 years the museum has been in arrears to the city's Economic Development Corporation for rent and utilities.
The situation has grown more urgent over the last year. Between March and December Mr. Sciame made a $1.5 million loan to the museum. In July Mary Pelzer, the museum's president and chief executive, asked the city for assistance, according to city officials; Mr. Sciame reiterated that request at the end of September.
In May the museum asked the city to buy back its lease on a lot at the corner of John and South Streets for $7 million. This would allow the museum to pay off $1.8 million in back rent and utility payments to the development corporation and would generate an additional $3.2 million, to be paid at the closing in 2012, according to the city.
Meanwhile, the museum sought a bank loan of $2.7 million against the city's option to buy back the lease, and the board in December authorized using up to $1.4 million of the loan to pay back Mr. Sciame. When the loan did not come through, Mr. Sciame said, he provided bridge loans, ''to keep the museum operating.''
''When the bank didn't loan against the option, I just basically became the bank,'' Mr. Sciame said.
The city also objected to funds being used to pay back loans from board members (others beside Mr. Sciame have lent the museum a total of $500,000) and said it would not allow the museum to borrow against the lease buy-back.
''It's a bad sign when board members start making loans to organizations,'' said a city official who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the negotiations. ''Their interest in repayment will trump their judgment about what's best for the organization.''
In January the City Department of Cultural Affairs and individuals interested in the museum's future proposed that two new trustees join the board in leadership positions: Doug Kreeger, a business consultant who is married to the sister of the developer Douglas Durst, and Brendan Sexton, a consultant on environmental sustainability and a former sanitation commissioner. No action has been taken on the appointments of those two men.
After studying the museum's financial records, Mr. Kreeger and Mr. Sexton agreed to help secure a loan to the museum to cover some operating costs, with the understanding that the museum would undertake a major debt-reduction plan. Under that plan, board members would not have preferred status among the museum's creditors.
Some people involved with the museum suggest that Mr. Sciame resisted this assistance in part because Mr. Kreeger is affiliated with a competitor, the Durst Organization -- though the two developers collaborated on Historic Front Street at the Seaport. But Mr. Sciame said this was not the source of his objections, but rather that Mr. Kreeger and Mr. Sexton ''had some plans that I thought were not operable,'' adding that he could not ''get into the particulars about it.''
''We're considering different ways of running the museum,'' Mr. Sciame said. ''There were some good ideas that Doug and Brendan had, and they're under discussion.''
Three weeks ago trustees began resigning, with the most recent resignation on Wednesday.
For his part, Mr. Sciame -- said he had simply tried to sustain the institution, whose travails he said were largely due to the recession.
''Like many cultural institutions, this is a tough time in terms of the economic downturn,'' he said. ''But this museum has been here before.''
Several of the trustees who resigned did not return calls seeking comment. Ms. Pelzer, who runs the museum and was formerly its general counsel, also did not return calls.
''We hope the museum will find a constructive solution,'' Commissioner Levin said.
Mr. Sciame said ''it's always difficult'' to lay people off, adding ''We intend to hire them back.''
He also said the board had established an austerity committee that is working to reduce costs and increase revenue. There have also been discussions about sharing space with another of the city's smaller museums or establishing an alliance with a larger institution, though no formal talks have been held.
As for his tenure, Mr. Sciame said he was open to passing the torch.
''We have a road map, and my intention is to have that road map implemented, either by myself or someone else,'' he added. ''I'm not saying it has to be me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Seaport Museum New York, which faces severe financial problems, has furloughed half of its staff in the last three weeks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CITIES (76%); MAYORS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); HISTORIC SITES (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); LIBRARIES (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



494 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 460 words

PERSON: Dave Duerson 

HEADLINE: Dave Duerson, 50, Safety Who Made Pro Bowl 4 Times

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

 BODY:
Dave Duerson, a four-time Pro Bowl safety who won Super Bowls with the Chicago Bears and the Giants, died on Thursday. He was 50.
The Bears reported the death on their Web site. Detective Robert Williams of the Miami-Dade Police Department confirmed that a man named David Duerson died in Sunny Isles Beach, Fla., on Thursday, but said he did not know the cause. 
Duerson won his first championship with the Bears after the 1985 season, making five interceptions in his first year as a starter in the National Football League. He was an integral part of a Bears defense that dominated opponents and helped rout the New England Patriots, 46-10, in Super Bowl XX.
''He stepped right in and became a starter at the strong safety position and was outstanding,'' Mike Ditka, the coach of the 1985 Bears, said on ESPN Chicago radio. ''You're talking about the whole package. You're not talking about a guy who just covered. He forced, he tackled, he did everything.''
Duerson played for the Bears through 1989, and was selected for four straight Pro Bowls from 1985 to 1988. He had 566 tackles, 18 interceptions, 15 sacks and 7 forced fumbles with the Bears.
The Bears released Duerson at the end of the 1989 season, and he signed with the Giants. In his first season, he helped the Giants contain the Buffalo Bills' powerful passing game in Super Bowl XXV. He ended his professional career with the Phoenix Cardinals from 1991 to 1993.
Duerson later served on a six-person board that approved claims for the N.F.L's player-disability plan. In 2007, he clashed with Ditka after Ditka formed a group to lobby on behalf of players who said they had received inadequate benefits. Duerson complained that Ditka had not shown the same compassion for players when he was a coach.
''That's an out-and-out lie,'' Ditka responded. ''He may not like me for some reason, but this is not about Duerson and Ditka. It's about right and wrong.''
David Russell Duerson was born on Nov. 28, 1960, in Muncie, Ind. He graduated from Notre Dame, where he was a two-time all-American, with an economics degree in 1982.
The Bears picked Duerson in the third round of the 1983 draft.
Duerson owned the Brooks Sausage Company after his N.F.L. career ended. He sold the business, later called Fair Oaks Farms, in 2002 and started his own company, Duerson Foods.
Duerson was divorced. The Chicago Sun-Times reported that he is survived by four children.
Duerson's life had deteriorated in recent years. In 2005, he resigned from the Notre Dame board of trustees after he was charged with pushing his wife, Alicia. And in 2006 he sold most of Duerson Food's assets at auction. In 2007, the Duersons filed for divorce and their home in Highland Park, Ill., went into foreclosure, according to The Sun-Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dave Duerson in 1985. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN DANIEL/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); WEB SITES (72%); LOBBYING (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); POLICE FORCES (57%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BEARS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); BUFFALO BILLS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); INDIANA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Sports

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



495 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Empire at the End of Decadence

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
It's time for us to stop lying to ourselves about this country.
America is great in many ways, but on a whole host of measures -- some of which are shown in the accompanying chart -- we have become the laggards of the industrialized world. Not only are we not No. 1 -- ''U.S.A.! U.S.A.!'' -- we are among the worst of the worst. 
Yet this reality and the urgency that it ushers in is too hard for many Americans to digest. They would prefer to continue to bathe in platitudes about America's greatness, to view our eroding empire through the gauzy vapors of past grandeur.
Republicans have even submitted a draconian budget that would make deep cuts into the tiny vein that is nonsecurity discretionary spending, cuts that would prove devastating to the poor and working class.
At the very time that many Americans -- and the very country itself -- are struggling to emerge from a very deep hole, the Republican proposal would simply throw the dirt in on top of us.
This cannot be. Financing for education and social services isn't simply about handouts to the hardscrabble, it is about building an infrastructure that can produce healthy, engaged and well-educated citizens who can compete in an increasingly cutthroat global economy.
One of President Obama's new catchphrases is ''win the future,'' but we can't win the future by ceding the present and romanticizing the past.
Here's a look at how the United States compares with other advanced economies.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The chart accompanying this column last week shaded Italy's and Spain's math scale scores incorrectly. They should have been included among the ''worst of the worst,'' not merely ''the ''worst.'' In addition, shadings for the United States and Taiwan were reversed. Taiwan should have been among the ''worst of the worst'' for life expectancy at birth, and the United States should have been among the ''worst.'' Finally, the French prison population per 100,000 citizens was incorrect. It is 96, not 365.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: American Shame: How the International Monetary Fund's ''Advanced economy'' countries compare on various measures. (Sources: The C.I.A.'s ''The World Factbook'', U.S. unemployment rate from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Economist Intelligence Unit's ''Democracy Index 2010,'' Gallup, Unicef, King's College London's World Prison Brief, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Program for International Student Assessment.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



496 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Looking On From U.S., Egyptians Ponder Return

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- This week, Khaled Abou El Fadl has greeted each fellow Egyptian he sees with one word: ''Mabrook,'' or congratulations.
But quickly, their joy over the toppling of President Hosni Mubarak gives way to a rapid string of questions. Can they raise money here in the United States to help clean up Tahrir Square? Can they help revive the economy by urging friends to invest in Egyptian companies? Can they successfully lobby for the right to vote even though they have lived abroad for years?
And after weeks of watching events thousands of miles away unfold on television, another thought nags at them: Is it time to go home?
That is a profound question for Egyptian immigrants, many of whom left the country to escape an autocratic government and have built a prosperous life in the United States. They are eager to help rebuild their home country and wonder if they might put their talents to use there, bringing their experience with democracy to help reshape Egyptian society. 
And yet many are loath to give up the freedoms they hope to see blossom in Egypt.
Mr. Abou El Fadl, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a critic of Mr. Mubarak, has spent hours on the phone in the last several days discussing ways to rewrite the Egyptian Constitution, including talks with some of the jurists selected to serve on the panel created by the interim military government.
''My heart, my soul and my intellect is just completely tied up into that, the democratic constitution we need in the Arab world,'' he said. ''One of the first calls I got was from a colleague there asking me to help. Would I quit my job? I don't know that yet. I don't know how to best contribute.''
The conversation about whether to stay or go is repeating itself at countless dinner tables, in urgent telephone calls and in posts on Facebook, particularly among highly educated and younger Egyptians who may have the most to lose by leaving the United States, but also the most to gain.
''I don't think any of us are not seriously considering moving there,'' said Nadine Wahab, 34, a public relations executive in Washington and a leader of the Egyptian Association for Change, which helped organize protests throughout the United States during the last several weeks. ''Everyone is asking, What can I do? What would I be going back to? Where am I going to make the most impact?''
There are roughly 300,000 Egyptians living in the United States, according to the most recent census data, with the largest concentrations in Southern California and New York, and a smaller but close-knit cluster in the Washington area.
Hana Elhattab left Egypt five years ago to start college at the University of Maryland. Her parents had moved to the area three years earlier and Ms. Elhattab figured she was saying goodbye to Egypt for good.
''I wasn't going to move back ever,'' she recalled telling people. ''But the moment Mubarak was going to be gone, I knew I was going back.''
Since graduating last year, Ms. Elhattab has worked as a policy analyst for a Middle East research group in Washington. When the protests began last month in Cairo, Ms. Elhattab immediately began translating Twitter posts from Arabic to share with an English-speaking audience.
''Everything I have done since I got here has been about creating a career here,'' she said. ''Now I have to start that over and figure out what is going to be relevant and helpful there. I need to do something that is a real job. I don't want to go and just be another liability there.''
First, Ms. Elhattab plans to look for a job in international development in the United States and to go to graduate school, which means it could be two or three years before she returns to Egypt. ''If I could go tomorrow, I would,'' she said.
The same kind of anxious impatience is tugging at Rania Behiri, 31, who left Egypt with her family when she a toddler. She traveled back often, though, and last year married Rami Serry, an Egyptian racecar driver she met through the Internet.
Ms. Behiri was reluctant to move her two sons from a previous marriage to Egypt from West Covina, Calif., and Mr. Serry refused to leave Cairo, so the two resigned themselves to a long-distance marriage.
But last week Ms. Behiri quickly changed her mind, and she is preparing to move next month with her sons, 9 and 12. When she arrives in Egypt, she plans to work for a professional development company her father-in-law runs. A group of Egyptian-born businessmen are working on a fund-raiser in the next several weeks to help her.
''People don't have trust, they don't have faith and they have been just so oppressed and messed up by the laws that they need to learn how to think for themselves,'' Ms. Behiri said. ''It's going to be invaluable. This whole thing showed that people truly can make a difference -- so now I feel like, of course, I want to be a part of it.''
Ms. Behiri is one of countless Egyptian immigrants speaking in such grand terms these days, driven by what they saw happen in their birthplace. Many of the Egyptians here say they hope to educate people back home before elections and will press for the right to vote as well.
After years of oppression, Ms. Behiri said, many Egyptians might be deceived by unscrupulous or power-hungry politicians. Friends her age, she said, could be so focused on improving Egypt's economy that they are willing to overlook religious demands by public officials.
It is not uncommon for exiles to return to their native country to help with rebuilding efforts after a revolution. Less than a decade ago, millions of Afghan refugees were repatriated after the United States-led coalition ousted the Taliban government, and many of them found a place in government, including Hamid Karzai, who is now president.
Many Egyptians come to the United States on student visas, planning to earn graduate degrees and to look for a job in academia. For years, many of them scrambled to find jobs outside Egypt. They worried that working as a professor there would not provide enough money to support a family. More worrisome, they said, was the prospect of limited academic freedom.
Nora Muharram and her husband, Said Fares, assumed that they would try to find a way to remain in the United States once he finished his doctorate in Islamic studies at the U.C.L.A. this spring.
''We never looked forward to going back,'' Ms. Muharram said. ''The environment would not allow him to publish the kinds of papers he wanted to do or give my children the kind of education I wanted for them. Now all of that has changed, and we are very, very optimistic.''
Ms. Muharram said she was confident that with her background as an electrical engineer, she would be able to find a job.
''People are going to want a better life, to change things, to do something,'' she said, her voice rising in excitement. ''The picture is still not clear, but at least now I am hearing the hope from everyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nora Muharram, who lives in Los Angeles with her son, Ali, 5, and husband, Said Fares, said they were optimistic they would return to Egypt.
In Anaheim, Calif., a tray full of Egyptian and Lebanese flag key chains and a sign for a Middle Eastern restaurant. About 300,000 Egyptians live in the United States, with a large concentration in Southern California. (A13)
 Khaled Abou El Fadl, a U.C.L.A. law professor from Egypt, at his home office in Los Angeles with Dana Lee, an assistant. (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (77%); LOBBYING (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); CENSUS (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



497 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: In House, Republicans Close to Approving Record Cuts

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans on Friday marched confidently toward approving the largest spending cuts in modern history, setting the stage for a standoff with Senate Democrats and the White House that each side has warned could lead to a shutdown of the federal government early next month.
With just two weeks to go before the stopgap measure now financing the government expires, and Congress in recess next week, party leaders conceded that there was not enough time to forge a deal and that a short-term extension would be needed to avert a shutdown. 
But with the rhetoric in the House only growing more strident, and with politically charged amendments dominating the action on Friday, lawmakers and Washington at large have begun to face the possibility that even a temporary accord will be difficult to achieve.
The House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, has said that he would not agree to a short-term extension without added cuts in spending, which is now being held generally at 2010 levels. Democrats have not shown any willingness to give ground, apparently betting that Republicans will be held responsible for a shutdown, as they were in 1995.
''The last thing the American people need is for Congressional Republicans or Democrats to draw a line in the sand that hinders keeping the government open,'' the House Democratic leader, Nancy Pelosi of California, said at a news conference. ''Closing our government would mean our men and women in uniform wouldn't receive their paychecks, and veterans would lose critical benefits. Seniors wouldn't receive their Social Security checks, and essential functions from food safety inspection to airport security could come to a halt.''
Aides to the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, sought to play down the possibility of a stalemate that would shutter the government, but they accused Democrats of rooting for that outcome.
''Instead of cheering for a shutdown, Senate Democrats should join their Republican colleagues in doing the hard work of cutting spending,'' Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, said on Friday.
House Republicans said their plan to slash more than $60 billion from domestic programs, foreign aid and even some military projects would fulfill their primary promise to voters in November. The plan would impose sharp reductions in nearly every area of government through the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30.
Even without a government shutdown, there were warnings that the Republican cuts could cripple federal agencies. In a letter to employees on Thursday, the Social Security Administration warned of potential furloughs ''given the potential of reduced Congressional appropriations for the remainder of the fiscal year.''
President Obama and Senate Democrats say the cuts would harm the fragile economic recovery, and the White House has threatened to veto the bill. The Democrats say Mr. Obama's budget proposal, which calls for a five-year spending freeze, is a more reasonable approach. But Republicans have rejected it as insufficient.
The stopgap measure now financing the government expires on March 4. Late Friday night, House Democratic leaders proposed a temporary extension that would avert a shutdown through March 31. But Democrats do not have the votes to pass the temporary extension without Republican backing. Republicans dismissed the proposal, saying Democrats were trying to lock in ''bloated spending levels'' and were clinging to the status quo.
While the House is expected to approve its spending bill on Saturday, the Senate is not due to reconvene until Feb. 28, four days before the deadline.
Democrats suggested Friday that Mr. Boehner might not be able to control his rank and file, particularly the freshmen who have led the charge for even bigger reductions than Republican leaders initially proposed.
The Republican Study Committee, a conservative bloc, put forward an amendment on Friday to cut $22 billion more. The amendment was defeated.
But flush with enthusiasm on the fourth long day of freewheeling floor debate, House Republicans on Friday successfully pushed through amendments that would deny financing for Planned Parenthood and block money for the Democrats' big health care overhaul and that would prohibit new regulation of certain greenhouse gases.
The amendment to deny government funds to Planned Parenthood was put forward by Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana. It was approved by a vote of 240 to 185.
Ms. Pelosi, who is a supporter of abortion rights, angrily denounced the vote as a camouflaged effort by Republicans to prevent Americans from engaging in family planning, which she said would actually undermine the Republicans' larger goal to reduce elective abortions.
''Perhaps we have to have a lesson in the birds and the bees around here for them to understand that,'' Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference.
Mr. Pence, in a statement, proclaimed a victory for opponents of abortion. ''This afternoon's vote was a victory for taxpayers and a victory for life,'' he said.
There were at least five amendments to block federal agencies from implementing the health care law or crucial components of it. Four of them were approved easily; the fifth was defeated on parliamentary grounds.
For Republican freshmen, however, there was a potentially sobering lesson about American democracy to be learned from the health care law that they hate so much: after countless hours of drafting and floor debate, the health care bill that Mr. Obama signed last year was the one written and approved by the Senate.
In much the same way, the spending measure being debated so feverishly on the House floor has virtually no chance of being enacted into law, no matter how big a victory celebration Republicans hold after the final vote.
Just as the Senate ultimately controlled the health care debate, so too will it control the crucial negotiations in the current spending fight.
For all the bravado of House Republican freshmen about forcing their party's leaders to vastly increase the size and scope of proposed spending cuts, and for all the boasting by Mr. Boehner over the open debate that has allowed more than 600 amendments to be brought forward, the House does not get final say.
In an understated reminder of his chamber's role in the process, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii and chairman of the Appropriations Committee, issued a statement expressing a desire for compromise. ''It is my sincere hope that all the parties will remain reasonable as we seek to fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year,'' he said. ''Neither house of Congress is in a position to dictate terms to the other, so I remain hopeful that we will come to a sensible accommodation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House Democratic leaders James E. Clyburn, Nancy Pelosi and Steny H. Hoyer said a bill risked a government shutdown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); HISTORY (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); INSPECTIONS (72%); AIRPORTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%); AVIATION SECURITY (64%); FOOD SAFETY (63%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); FOOD INSPECTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



498 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions Placed on Afghan Exchange

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Ginger Thompson reported from Washington, and Alissa J. Rubin from Kabul, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Friday against one of the largest money exchange houses in Afghanistan, along with 15 of its executives, on charges that it used billions of dollars transferred in and out of the country to help hide proceeds from illegal drug sales. 
The authorities designated the New Ansari Money Exchange a ''major money-laundering vehicle,'' under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, saying that the exchange used its subsidiaries in Dubai to funnel drug money out of Kabul and into American and other international financial institutions. They also imposed sanctions on New Ansari's senior managers, including some who have ties to President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan.
With these actions, the United States has seized any assets New Ansari and its managers hold in the United States. American banks and businesses are prohibited from transactions with those named in the order.
The move is part of a delicate balancing act by the Obama administration, which aims to crack down on the corruption that reaches the highest levels of the Afghan government without derailing the counterinsurgency efforts that are dependent on Mr. Karzai's cooperation.
It comes as Afghanistan struggles to overcome the turmoil caused by the near collapse of its largest financial institution, the Kabul Bank. The Afghan government's failure to take steps to deal with the bank's corruption and fraud has been a major factor in a decision by the International Monetary Fund to delay indefinitely the renewal of its credit program with Afghanistan.
The sanctions by the Treasury Department against the money exchange represent one of a handful of instances in which the United States has taken strong steps to stop corruption in Afghanistan.
The move against New Ansari comes more than a year after Washington and Mr. Karzai first clashed over the money exchange company, after two special anticorruption units, trained by the United States, conducted a secret raid on New Ansari's headquarters in Kabul. New Ansari has largely stopped operating since the raid, the authorities said, but its executives have begun working with the Ahmad Shah Money Exchange, which was also named in the Treasury Department's action on Friday.
The raid fueled tensions between the United States and Mr. Karzai, who accused Washington of infringing on his country's sovereignty.
An aide to Mr. Karzai, Mohammed Zia Saleh, was arrested in July 2010, after investigators wiretapped him soliciting bribes from New Ansari, according to a Western official with knowledge of the case. After Mr. Karzai intervened, Mr. Saleh was released.
American officials involved in the investigation of New Ansari viewed Mr. Karzai's actions as an attempt to protect his inner circle and the high-profile exchange house. Since then, however, the Obama administration has made a concerted effort to ease the tensions and work more closely with Mr. Karzai. American officials said he had been briefed about the sanctions by senior Treasury Department officials before they were announced.
A senior Drug Enforcement Administration official who is an expert on money laundering said that exchange houses dominated Afghanistan's feeble economy. There are only 17 registered banks in the country, he said, but more than 400 registered exchange houses, known as ''hawalas.''
New Ansari, run largely by businessmen from Kandahar, Mr. Karzai's hometown, is among the largest of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); BRIBERY (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (72%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); WIRETAPPING (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



499 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Watershed Moment for Public-Sector Unions

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
In the half century since Wisconsin became the first state to give its public workers the right to bargain collectively, government employee unions have mushroomed in size and power -- so much so that they now account for more than half of the nation's union members.
But the legislative push by Wisconsin's new governor, Scott Walker, a Republican, to slash the collective bargaining rights of his state's public employees could prove a watershed for public-sector unions, perhaps signaling the beginning of a decline in their power -- both at the bargaining table and in politics.
Three-fourths of the states allow collective bargaining by some or all of state or local government employees. And labor's friends and foes alike agree that if the Wisconsin legislation passes, it will create momentum for similar bills in Ohio, Indiana and other states.
''These kinds of high-profile public-employee battles have enormous stakes,'' said Benjamin Sachs, a professor of labor law at Harvard. ''We're still feeling the consequences of President Reagan confronting the union in the air controllers' strike. For anyone interested in union rights, the fight in Wisconsin couldn't be more important.'' 
From Florida to California, many political leaders are seeking to cut the wages and benefits of public-sector workers to help balance strained budgets.
But Mr. Walker is going far beyond that, seeking to definitively curb the power of government unions in his state. He sees public-employee unions as a bane to the taxpayer because they demand -- and often win -- generous health and pension plans that help push up taxes and drive budget deficits higher.
To end that cycle, he wants to restrict the unions to bargaining over just one topic, base wages, while eliminating their ability to deal over health care, working hours and vacations. Moreover, he wants to require unions to win an employee election every year to continue representing workers.
By flooding the State Capitol in Madison with more than 10,000 protesters, labor unions are doing their utmost to block Mr. Walker's plans. They helped persuade Democratic state senators to slip out of the building this week to deny Republicans the quorum they needed to pass the legislation.
Democrats say the governor's ''budget repair bill'' -- strongly supported by the Republicans who control both legislative houses -- is political payback, intended to cripple public-sector unions, which spent more than $200 million to back Democrats across the country in November's elections.
Mr. Walker denies any such notion, saying he simply wants to curb union bargaining rights and bring public workers' wages and benefits in line with the private sector. ''It's not about the unions,'' he said this week. ''It's about balancing the budget.''
Christopher Policano, a spokesman for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said his union was willing to negotiate concessions with Mr. Walker, ''but he wants to throw out the bargaining table.''
Mr. Walker has repeatedly argued that most Wisconsin residents back his legislation. After visiting a factory this week, he said that private-sector workers often complain that public employees receive more generous health and pension benefits than they do.
There is no question that public-sector unions and the thousands of contracts they have negotiated over the years have improved wages and pensions of government workers and made government service more attractive. But union leaders are quick to point to studies showing that overall compensation for government employees is slightly lower than for private-sector employees of comparable age and education.
Also embedded in the Wisconsin debate -- and reaching well beyond that state -- is a more fundamental dispute over the role, even the legitimacy, of public-sector unions. Like Mr. Walker, Ohio's new governor, John Kasich, and Indiana's second-term governor, Mitch Daniels, both Republicans, see public-sector bargaining as something to be banned or severely restricted because of its effect on taxpayers and government budgets.
Some Republicans quote President Franklin D. Roosevelt, a Democrat, who bridled at public-sector unionism and once said, ''The process of collective bargaining, as usually understood, cannot be transplanted in the public service.''
Republicans say the Democrats have embraced the government employees' cause because weaker unions would reduce crucial political support for Democratic candidates. Republicans have often denounced what they say is a squalid deal in which public-sector unions spend generously to elect allies to office and then those allies lavish generous wages and benefits on union members.
Ever since Wisconsin gave its government employees the right to bargain in 1959, it has generally been Democrats who have extended that right in other states. In 1962, President John F. Kennedy gave most federal employees the right to unionize and bargain collectively.
The national importance of the Wisconsin fight is clear. President Obama weighed in on labor's behalf on Wednesday, calling Mr. Walker's proposals ''an assault on unions.'' And the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, praised Mr. Walker for ''confronting problems that have been neglected for years at the expense of jobs and economic growth.''
Citing an anticipated budget deficit of $137 million this year and a $3.6 billion shortfall over the next two years, Mr. Walker argues that his measures to curb union power and bargaining are essential to help balance the budget. Union leaders say that several of Mr. Walker's proposals -- including the one that would require elections each year to determine whether a majority of public employees want to keep their union -- are really intended to cripple unions, not balance the budget.
Other governors, Democrat and Republican, are also grappling with budget deficits. But many of those governors, like Jerry Brown of California and Andrew M. Cuomo in New York, both Democrats, and Rick Snyder of Michigan, a Republican, are not trying to strip bargaining rights. They are instead using public pressure and the threat of layoffs to persuade public-sector unions to make far-reaching concessions.
''Wisconsin has become ground zero for the process of pushing back against unions,'' said Steve Meyer, a professor of labor history at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. ''People are waiting to see what happens here. That's why the labor movement has become so deeply involved trying to stop this process.''
As happens so often in today's increasingly partisan politics, the battle reflects how differently Republicans and Democrats view a particular subject -- in this case, unions and their power. Many Republicans see public-sector unions as greedy, powerful special interests that are taking too many taxpayer dollars. Many Democrats see them as natural allies and a vital part of a labor movement that has helped build the nation's middle class.
The furious demonstrators in Madison have shown that public-sector unions still wield real power. But if the Legislature enacts Mr. Walker's bill, a tipping point might well be reached, with the power of public-sector unions tilting into decline.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Capitol protest in Madison, Wis., over Gov. Scott Walker's bill to slash collective bargaining rights for many state workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Public Employee Pay in Wisconsin: Wisconsin state workers have a median wage of $45,691, 22 percent more than the median wage earned by workers in the private sector. But those figures, which do not include benefits, can be deceptive because the state work force is much better educated than the private-sector work force. In Wisconsin, more than 60 percent of state workers have at least a bachelor's degree, compared with just over 20 percent in the private sector, according to census data. College-educated workers on the state payroll in fact earn a median wage that is 9 percent less than that of their peers in the private sector. (Source: Census Bureau's American Community Survey
 Queens College Department of Sociology) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



500 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: After Lengthy Exile, Sunni Cleric Adds Voice in Shaping of Egypt

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Anthony Shadid and Mona El-Naggar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Sheik Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an influential Sunni cleric who is banned from the United States and Britain for supporting violence against Israel and American forces in Iraq, delivered his first public sermon here in 50 years on Friday, emerging as a powerful voice in the struggle to shape what kind of Egyptian state emerges from the uprising that toppled Hosni Mubarak.
On the same day, other signs of a changing Egypt emerged. The military warned restive workers that it would stop what it declared were illegal strikes crippling Egypt's economy, declaring ''it will confront them and take the legal measures needed to protect the nation's security.''
It also allowed two Iranian Navy ships to pass through the Suez Canal -- a first since the 1979 Iranian revolution and a move that some Israeli officials called a provocation. Egyptian officials reportedly said the ships did not contain weapons. 
Sheik Qaradawi, a popular television cleric whose program reaches an audience of tens of millions worldwide, addressed a rapt audience of more than a million Egyptians gathered in Tahrir Square to celebrate the uprising and honor those who died.
''Don't fight history,'' he urged his listeners in Egypt and across the Arab world, where his remarks were televised. ''You can't delay the day when it starts. The Arab world has changed.''
He spoke as the authorities in Libya, Bahrain and Yemen were waging violent crackdowns on uprisings inspired in part by the Egyptian revolution. The sermon was the first public address here by Sheik Qaradawi, 84, since he fled Egypt for Qatar in 1961. An intellectual inspiration to the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood, Sheik Qaradawi was jailed in Egypt three times for his ties to the group and spent most of his life abroad. His prominence exemplifies the peril and potential for the West as Egypt opens up. While he condemned the 9/11 attacks, he has supported suicide bombers against Israel and attacks on American forces in Iraq.
On Friday, he struck themes of democracy and pluralism, long hallmarks of his writing and preaching. He began his sermon by saying that he was discarding the customary opening ''Oh Muslims,'' in favor of ''Oh Muslims and Copts,'' referring to Egypt's Coptic Christian minority. He praised Muslims and Christians for standing together in Egypt's revolution and even lauded the Coptic Christian ''martyrs'' who once fought the Romans and Byzantines. ''I invite you to bow down in prayer together,'' he said.
He urged the military officers governing Egypt to deliver on their promises of turning over power to ''a civil government'' founded on principles of pluralism, democracy and freedom. And he called on the army to immediately release all political prisoners and rid the cabinet of its dominance by officials of the old Mubarak government.
''We demand from the Egyptian Army to free us from the government that was appointed by Mubarak,'' Sheik Qaradawi declared. ''We want a new government without any of these faces whom people can no longer stand.'' And he urged the young people who led the uprising to continue their revolution. ''Protect it,'' he said. ''Don't you dare let anyone steal it from you.''
As the uprising here intensified in recent weeks, Sheik Qaradawi had used his platform to urge Egyptians to rise up against Mr. Mubarak. His son, Abdul-Rahman Yusuf al-Qaradawi, is an Egyptian poet who supported the revolution, and, though Sheik Qaradawi is considered a religious traditionalist, three of his daughters hold doctoral degrees, including one in nuclear physics.
Scholars who have studied his work say Sheik Qaradawi has long argued that Islamic law supports the idea of a pluralistic, multiparty, civil democracy.
But he has made exceptions for violence against Israel or the American forces in Iraq. ''You call it violence; I call it resistance,'' said Prof. Emad Shahin of the University of Notre Dame, an Egyptian scholar who has studied Sheik Qaradawi's work and was in Tahrir Square for his speech Friday.
''He is enormously influential,'' Mr. Shahin added. ''His presence in the square today cemented the resolve of the demonstrators to insist on their demands from the government.''
Egyptians streamed back into Tahrir Square, the epicenter of the revolution, for a rally that was part prayer service, part celebration and part political protest. State television put attendance at two million.
A raucous spirit of flag-waving celebration prevailed. Women in full face veils painted their daughters' faces in the colors of the Egyptian flag. Young men danced to thrumming drum beats on balconies, lampposts and trucks. There were many signs bearing the dual images of a crescent and cross, the symbol of Muslim-Christian unity.
Many said they had come to remember ''the martyrs -- the people who gave their lives to change Egypt to a new society of justice and freedom,'' as Wael Lotfi el-Said, 39, put it. Vendors sold plastic cups emblazoned with the pictures of the ''martyrs'' -- many now easily recognizable here from posters that have hung in the square and portraits that have appeared in newspapers. The Egyptian Health Ministry has said at least 365 people died in the uprising.
But many, including Mr. Said, said they were prepared to return every Friday ''if necessary'' to ensure that the Egyptian military kept its commitment to hand over the government to a civilian democracy as quickly as possible. Many said they worried that the military had not yet clearly ended the so-called emergency law allowing detention without charges or trial. Nor has the military yet incorporated any civilian input into the interim government.
And many complained that the military had kept most of the cabinet ministers put in place during the last days of Mr. Mubarak's rule. Mohamed el-Beltagui, a Muslim Brotherhood leader who played a leading role in the square during the protests, pointed at Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq, a retired general and businessman appointed by Mr. Mubarak. ''Can we stop the protests when the government of Ahmed Shafiq is still there?'' Mr. Beltagui asked. ''No, no, no,'' the crowd answered.
There were signs that the demonstrators had not forgotten their disappointment with what seemed to be American support for Mr. Mubarak until the end of the revolt. Though the demonstrators had returned to remove most of the graffiti around the square, one billboard remained inscribed with a message in English: ''USA Admin -- we will get democracy with our will. Play your games with the tyrant.''
By nightfall, however, most politics were forgotten. Fireworks exploded over the square to mark the first week since Mr. Mubarak's fall, and after midnight the square was still packed with revelers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheik Yusuf al-Qaradawi in Tahrir Square on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED ELFIQI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
 More than a million Egyptians celebrated in Tahrir Square in Cairo on Friday, and honored those who had died in the revolution that toppled Hosni Mubarak. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED OU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); NAVIES (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); STRIKES (70%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (61%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011



501 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27B

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: In Farewell, a Blueprint For Running Chicago

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Mayor Richard M. Daley's farewell speech to the Economic Club of Chicago last week was an oversubscribed event necessitating an adjoining ballroom at the Hilton Chicago.
There were 2,000 attendees, but just two print reporters and one TV crew. The news media's definition of irrelevance is as expansive as its attention span is short. Why check out a lame duck's babbling to men in tuxedos and women in evening dresses when you can fall over one another covering his wannabe successors' staged events and sideshows -- replete with cries of ''Judas!''?
The king of big-city mayors offered a primer on his era with his seemingly inarticulate, yet inimitably effective means of communication. It made me recall the Joni Mitchell lyric -- ''Don't it always seem to go, that you don't know what you've got till it's gone.'' 
Mr. Daley started by reading a well-crafted opening to a 1981 Chicago Tribune series, ''City on the Brink,'' by an estimable reporter, R. C. Longworth:
''The City of Chicago has become an economic invalid. The condition may be permanent -- unless the people responsible for its economic future can reverse the long, steady and seemingly endless slide. Chicago is losing the industry that was its original reason for existing and has found nothing to replace it. Often, cities stricken in this way become irrelevant. Business moves away. So do the best young people. The population ages. The city becomes a backwater.''
''That's not what happened,'' said Mr. Daley, detailing the city's history of reinvention, which makes relevant Mark Twain's 1883 comment that, ''It is hopeless for the occasional visitor to try to keep up with Chicago -- she outgrows his prophecies faster than he can make them.''
As Mr. Daley exits, Chicago is, by some ratings, the fifth or sixth most important city globally. Huge problems persist, including crumbling infrastructure, awful poverty and persistent segregation. But over all, it's been a remarkable run and partly explains why a White House chief of staff departed to seek an office in City Hall.
The mayor, an ever-passionate 68, detailed some of the successes, citing Groupon as one of many firms whose rise was both unpredictable and a function of a premeditated pro-business environment. Groupon was bolstered by city help with taxes and a dazzling renovation of the old Montgomery Ward catalog house.
You can't amble around Groupon's vibrant headquarters, with its army of iPod-wearing 20- and 30-somethings, and not appreciate Mr. Daley's assertion that talented people can live anywhere and capital can move anywhere. The trick is luring and keeping them.
He wound up his formal address by mentioning the recent visit of President Hu Jintao of China as an exclamation point on Chicago's rise. Mr. Hu came because of the aggressive insertion of Chinese language study into local school curricula and the perception the city is a gateway to the Midwest economy.
Mr. Daley thanked the business community profusely, received a standing ovation, then engaged in a revealing chat with John Rogers Jr., chairman of Ariel Investments, Mr. Daley's onetime Park District board president and co-chair of President Obama's Inaugural Committee.
As usual, there was a stream-of-consciousness element in the mayor's language, with verb-subject agreement sometimes thrown to the wind. But one realized, too, how weirdly effective a communicator he is; whether the subject is the need for diversity in hiring, the reshaping of public housing or his attitude toward government.
''Washington is not part of America. It's bureaucracy,'' said the man who mastered the bureaucracy, regardless of which party was in charge. ''I'd love not to balance my budget.''
As a friend noted, one heard a famous big-city Democratic mayor who is a ''small 'c' conservative.'' He's emphatic about government limits and private-sector centrality, but passionate about education, have-nots, transit, the environment and gun control. ''How can we tell others how to live when we're killing our own?'' Mr. Daley asked.
Melding those core values with strong relations with business was no small feat. It's why the next mayor -- none of the candidates were present -- should get the speech.
As for what's next, he's fielding opportunities. But one vague prospect looms: new uncertainty on our roadways. Since he was elected Cook County state's attorney 30 years ago, the guy hasn't driven.
''It will be a shock to everybody,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (78%); HISTORY (69%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (51%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



502 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Market Values

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was stunned to read the following sentence in Megan Buskey's review of ''The Price of Everything'' (Feb. 6), by Eduardo Porter: ''Back in the 18th century, Adam Smith propounded a very different idea: products had an unshakable value equal to the cost of the labor put into them.'' This is an utter misrepresentation of Smith's work. Against those who tied the value of a product to labor (for example, John Locke in ''The Second Treatise of Civil Government''), Smith argued that a product's value is determined by the market, by the laws of supply and demand. In the 19th century, Karl Marx again tied the value of a product to labor as part of his critique of capitalism. These competing theories of value are at the center of controversies in the history of modern economic thought. 
Buskey writes, ''Much of Porter's book can be seen as a vehicle for the author to explain to Smith just how wrong he was.'' If Porter in fact identifies this as one of his purposes, and so characterizes Smith, the error undermines the credibility of the entire book and the reviewer should have pointed this out. If the sentence and characterization of Adam Smith is the reviewer's alone, then the error lies solely with the reviewer.
JON P. GUNNEMANN Decatur, Ga. The writer is an emeritus professor of social ethics at Emory University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ETHICS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



503 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Gifted Programs Go on Block as Schools Must Do With Less

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLLAN. 
jgollan@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
When she was just 3, Teela Huff understood how to add numbers. By third grade, she was tutoring her peers.
''She can explain the problems to you without making you feel stupid,'' one of Teela's classmates wrote of her, according to her father, Tom.
But Teela's quick mind -- she is now a 10-year-old fifth grader but reads at a 12th-grade level -- meant her classes at Silver Oak Elementary in San Jose were often boring and frustrating. She finally enrolled in a program for gifted children, where students wrestled with things like mind-bending math riddles and thought-provoking questions like how to survive on a desert island. And she loved it.
Her new adventures in learning ended in September, however, when the Evergreen School District eliminated all programs for its 790 or so gifted children. The move was part of a statewide wave of cuts in a program known as Gifted and Talented Education. 
''I am worrying about keeping her engaged and getting educated,'' said Tom Huff, a software developer. ''In the long term, if schools are unable to engage bright children, as a society, we suffer. We need all of the smartest minds we can get.''
Budget problems, combined with policies and programs like the No Child Left Behind Act focused on improving overall educational performance in public schools, have put gifted programs in the expendable category. Local school districts, with permission from the Legislature, have been systematically taking money from the programs to cover budget shortfalls. School officials say they have no choice -- but exceptionally talented pupils like Teela are paying the price.
There is acute awareness at the federal level that the country must invest in math, science and advanced education to invigorate economic growth and remain competitive. In his State of the Union speech last month, President Obama called for another Sputnik moment, referring to the Soviet Union's launching of the Sputnik orbiter in 1957 that shocked Americans with its sophistication.
Investing in gifted-education programs is one of the surest ways to recreate that watershed moment, said Frank C. Worrell, faculty director of the Academic Talent Development Program at the University of California, Berkeley.
''We have focused on bringing up the bottom,'' said Dr. Worrell, who has written extensively about gifted learners. ''But we have failed to recognize that by ignoring the top, we are creating another problem. We are not sparking the creativity of those who have the most potential to make outstanding contributions, ranging from iPads to Post-it notes.''
In California, state money for Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) has fallen only modestly, to $44.2 million in 2009-10 school year, from $46.8 million in the 2008-9 school year. But those numbers obscure a more important change: in February 2009, the California Legislature adopted a plan that allowed public schools to divert state money for gifted children to ''any educational purpose,'' including closing budget deficits.
And divert they did. A study by the state Legislative Analyst's Office, released last May, found that 68 percent of the 231 school districts surveyed had shifted resources away from education for gifted students since lawmakers approved the measure.
The plan, which was intended to give school districts more control over spending decisions as their finances eroded, has reverberated through classrooms across the state. At the beginning of this school year, the San Jose Unified School District stopped reimbursing schools for expenses related to the education of gifted students, including teacher pay and additional books and materials. Last fall, the Oakland Unified School District cut money for gifted programs by 25 percent.
''In a time when you are making steep reductions, the Legislature is trying to figure out the core activities that should be preserved in school districts,'' said Edgar Cabral, senior fiscal and policy analyst with the Legislative Analyst's Office. ''This is the most flexibility that school districts have been given over the last 10 years in terms of eliminating restrictions for GATE funding.''
That latitude has manifested itself in the Evergreen School District, which shifted the money elsewhere this school year.
''We were facing incredible deficits, so we took advantage of the flexibility of the GATE funding to sweep those funds into our general fund to pay for things like salaries, health insurance and PG&E bills,'' said Kathy Gomez, assistant superintendent of the Education Services Department at Evergreen. ''I wish it didn't have to be done.''
Before it cut the gifted program, Evergreen received roughly $97,300 from the state and supplemented that with about $123,000 from its general fund to pay for two teachers and materials.
Across the country, states vary wildly in terms of how much money they provide for gifted programs and the criteria they use to identify and test brainy students. State financing ranged from $250,000 in Montana to $91 million in Texas in the 2008-9 school year. While 32 states have a mandate to tend to the needs of gifted children, just 6 fully financed the programs in 2008-9, according to the National Association for Gifted Children.
School districts use various criteria to identify gifted students, including I.Q. tests, grades and standardized test scores. Gifted programs vary widely in the pace, depth and breadth of subjects they cover. Some promote intensive study of a core subject like reading, others foster analytical reasoning, and still others focus on creative problem solving.
In the Piedmont Unified School District, Zachary Crombie's teachers recently encouraged him to go beyond the assigned homework by researching the design and financing of solar energy projects. Zachary, a gifted eighth grader, is also a year ahead in math at Piedmont Middle School.
''We would have to find a different program for him if the program didn't exist,'' said Zachary's mother, Kathleen Crombie. ''He would get in trouble because he would be bored.''
Despite the high praise from parents, gifted programs are sometimes criticized as elitist because they tend to be dominated by students from upper-income families, Dr. Worrell said. Wealthier parents are more likely to seek out such programs, and are more likely to enrich their children's cognitive development with activities like reading.
But educators agree that, wealth aside, creative accomplishment is born from challenge. Teela Huff, a brown belt in karate who yearns to become a computer game designer, experienced this firsthand in the gifted program.
''It helped me get through fourth grade,'' Teela said of the now-defunct gifted courses. ''I would stare at the clock waiting for 8:30 a.m. when the gifted class started.''
Before the program was scrapped, Teela and other advanced students gathered in separate sessions away from the traditional classes for two half-days a month. They took on projects like dissecting a cow's eye, which sparked a fascination with how the human body works.
''It was so cool and disgustingly weird,'' said Teela, dressed in a gray T-shirt and jeans, her dark hair parted neatly in the middle. ''We saw the lens of the cow's eye and the blood vessels. It was a lot more interesting than seeing it in a book.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Teela Huff, right, liked school a lot more when Silver Oak Elementary in San Jose offered gifted programs that better exercised her mind.
 TEELA HUFF, a fifth grader, on her now-defunct gifted classes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GIFTED EDUCATION (92%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (75%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (75%); EDUCATION LAW (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



504 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; TBR; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Inside the List

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
GREEN ACRES: Four years ago, Ree Drummond was just another sometime city girl turned Oklahoma ranch wife with a flock of home-schooled children and a blog. Now, she's a full-fledged media star, with millions of page views a month at ThePioneerWoman.com, a long list of television appearances and a new memoir, subtitled ''Black Heels to Tractor Wheels,'' at No. 2 on the hardcover nonfiction list. (It's also No. 8 on the e-book list, on Page 23.) Call Drummond the Prairie Dog Mother: she mixes the chipper can-do spirit of Laura Ingalls Wilder, the slick production values of Martha Stewart and steely domestic ambition that Amy Chua might approve. At her Web site, vicarious homesteaders can read instructions on topics ranging from how to load hay onto your feed truck and knock down fences to how to make Pasta ai Quattro Formaggi and spiff up digital photographs. 
(Photoshop's ''define and sharpen'' feature is apparently ''really good for animal hair.'') Drummond has said she started her blog mainly as a way of sharing photos with her mother. Now, she offers lavish down-home food porn like a 39-shot pictorial on ''Perfect Potatoes au Gratin,'' a perfect accompaniment to the copious beefcake shots of her Wrangler-rocking husband, a k a Marlboro Man, cuddling a baby or wearing chaps or ''nourishing'' cows, his face usually shadowed under the brim of a cowboy hat. ''When my husband and I got married, we became one flesh,'' Drummond wrote in a recent post. ''So when he spends eight hours tearing down and building fence, it's like I do, too. I just love the one flesh concept! It makes me one of the hardest workers I've ever met.''
SOY TO THE WORLD: Vegans may be thin on the ground in Oklahoma, but there seem to be enough v-curious people everywhere else to send Kathy Freston's manifesto ''Veganist'' to No. 3 on the hardcover how-to and advice list. Freston also has the backing of Oprah Winfrey, who recently led 378 of her employees on a one-week ''vegan challenge,'' documented on the Feb. 1 episode of her show. In between interviews with Freston, Michael Pollan and other healthy-eating gurus, staffer after staffer offered testimonials to the mind- and body-altering properties of a diet purged of all animal products, though most seemed to have emerged from the experience less veganist than vegan-ish. One (male) co-producer reveled in going ''from a C cup to a B and a half.'' Oprah herself, after taking a swig of broccoli smoothie, announced Meatless Mondays in the company cafeteria, adding, ''Let's try not to get sued for it.'' Not everybody was thrilled by the experience, however: one junk-food-addicted co-producer complained that the vegan diet had left her feeling ''angry.'' Maybe she should pitch an episode built around another new advice book: the business guru Andy Kessler's ''Eat People: And Other Unapologetic Rules for Game-Changing Entrepreneurs.'' I can even recommend a guest: the law professor Allan C. Hutchinson, author of the new book ''Is Eating People Wrong? Great Legal Cases and How They Shaped the World.''
MORE MALCOLM: ''Eat People'' has yet to hit the best-seller list, but maybe we should reserve an honorary spot for the titles cranked out at the online Malcolm Gladwell Book Generator. My money is on ''Nothing: What Sand Castles Can Teach Us About North Korean Economic Policy,'' ''The Tripping Point: How Psychoactive Substances Created a . . . Wait, I Can't Feel My Face, Bro'' and (editing slightly) ''Blank: 300 Empty Pages to Fill With Your Own -- Thoughts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); HOME SCHOOLING (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); MEAT FREE DIETS (70%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (56%); OPRAH WINFREY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



505 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Where Are the Chinese Cars?

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
CHINESE goods, from textiles to tools to toys, have been flooding into America for years. But despite their repeated promises, Chinese automakers haven't begun to make a dent in the car market in the United States.
For at least half a decade, Chinese manufacturers including Brilliance, Geely, Great Wall and BYD Auto have displayed vehicles at the Detroit and Los Angeles auto shows, often with news releases announcing plans to sell cars in the near future. But the cars never materialized in the dealer showrooms -- which also remain missing.
The BYD F3DM could become a notable exception. BYD says its plug-in-hybrid car from China is on track to reach the United States in spring 2012. Even if that proves true, it may register as barely a blip in an increasingly crowded market for alternative-power cars, industry analysts say. 
Still, just getting the car to market would represent a leap forward for a Chinese manufacturer. In 2006, Brilliance said it would start selling its cars in the United States by 2009. To date, none have arrived. And Chery Automobile backed out of an agreement with Chrysler, which was supposed to provide a beachhead in the American market.
In 2006, the Nanjing Automobile Group, which bought the assets of the bankrupt MG Rover, said it wanted to be the first Chinese carmaker to build vehicles in the United States -- including a new edition of the MG sports car -- but its plans to open an Oklahoma factory never materialized.
Geely, which bought Volvo last year, showed small sedans at the 2006 and 2008 Detroit auto shows, but those cars have not been certified to meet American safety and emissions standards.
The false starts are a result of Chinese automakers' letting their ambitions get ahead of the hard work of cracking the ultracompetitive American market, analysts say. Fueled by cheap financing and booming domestic demand, Chinese automakers have been growing rapidly at home. That has given them the confidence, though not necessarily the tools, to start selling to Americans.
''This isn't computers or cellphones, where you just get into a big-box store,'' said Bill Visnic, a senior analyst at Edmunds.com. ''You need some dealerships, and those things are tremendous investments of time and resources. They thought it was going to be a lot easier than it was.''
It hasn't helped, of course, that the last few years have been a terrible time to introduce cars. When the housing market plunged, followed by the general economy, consumers hunkered down. Vehicle sales in the United States fell about 40 percent from 2005-9, General Motors and Chrysler received government bailouts, hundreds of dealerships were shuttered and auto loans dried up. Even sales of hybrids suffered as oil prices receded.
While the economy has improved somewhat, the Chinese still face big challenges. Partly, they must determine which part of the market to attack. Compact cars may be one of the easier entry points for a new company, but competition is fierce and margins are slim.
The Chinese could try to leapfrog the market by selling more advanced hybrids and plug-ins. Indeed, Coda Automotive of Santa Monica, Calif., plans to import the bodies of a Chinese sedan, the Hafei Saibao, into which the company will install electric powertrains. But hybrids and electric vehicles account for just 2.2 percent of global sales, according to J. D. Power & Associates.
''Because consumers are wary about electric vehicles and their driving range and batteries, they are even more likely to go with more established companies like G.M. and Nissan,'' said Mike Omotoso, who follows the sales of hybrids and electric vehicles for J. D. Power.
Mr. Omotoso said the Chinese could buy competitors and use their dealers to reach Americans. The most likely candidate for this strategy is Geely, which acquired Volvo last summer. Even then, Geely would have to spend millions of dollars on marketing -- and hope American consumers are adventurous enough to try a new brand.
''The problem with the Chinese car companies,'' Mr. Omotoso said, ''is they are trying to run before they walk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DROPPING BY: Above, Brilliance display at '09 Detroit auto show. Left, Geely at '08 show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROB WIDDIS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES & SELLING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); SEDANS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); SPORTS CARS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JIANGSU, CHINA (59%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



506 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Duerson Told Family He Wanted Brain Study

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
Before he shot himself fatally in the chest Thursday, the former Chicago Bears defensive back Dave Duerson sent family members text messages requesting that his brain tissue be examined for the same damage recently found in other retired players, two people aware of the messages said Saturday night.
As a longtime force in the N.F.L. players union, Duerson, 50, was keenly aware of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease linked to depression, dementia and occasionally suicide among more than a dozen deceased players. He had expressed concern in recent months that he might have had the condition, said one person close to him who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The Duerson family got in touch with representatives of Boston University's Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy, said Dr. Robert Stern, a co-director of the research group. Stern declined to comment further on Duerson's specific case because of policies about confidentiality.
''This is a tragic event,'' Stern said. ''His wish will hopefully lead to additional scientific answers about this disease.''
Duerson's request to have his brain examined for C.T.E., first reported by The Chicago Tribune, indicates how much acceptance of the disease has changed since it first made headlines in January 2007. That month, it was found in the brain tissue of the former Philadelphia Eagles player Andre Waters, who also had committed suicide.
Doctors, N.F.L. officials and even many players denied or discredited the links between football and such brain damage for months or even years. The roughly 20 cases of C.T.E. that have been identified by groups at Boston University and West Virginia University were almost always men who had died -- most with significant emotional or cognitive problems -- with no knowledge of the disease. Now, for the first time he knows of, Stern said, a former player has killed himself with the specific request that his brain be examined.
George Atallah, a union spokesman who knew Duerson well, said that active and retired players had become increasingly aware of, and occasionally quite concerned about, the prospect that they would develop C.T.E. or other issues regarding brain activity. He said some players had called the union's office in Washington since Duerson's death wanting to learn more about the condition.
''This thing has the whole union community pretty shaken up,'' Atallah said in a telephone interview Saturday night. ''The increased awareness around the long-term impact of head trauma on men that played football has been a constant subject of conversation among the players.''
It typically takes several months for the Boston University group to conclude an examination, which involves staining the tissue for abnormal protein deposits in various sections of the brain. The process cannot be conducted on a living person.
Duerson was a four-time Pro Bowl safety, primarily for the Bears. He helped the 1985 team win the Super Bowl as a member of its famed 46 defense, and was a member of the Giants team that won the Super Bowl five years later.
Duerson earned an economics degree from Notre Dame, and in 2001, he graduated from a Harvard Business School program. After many years in private business, he had spent the last several years as one of the union's three representatives on the board that rules on retired players' disability claims.
Often deadlocked 3-3 -- evenly split among representatives of management and labor -- that board has been criticized for denying the claims of players asserting cognitive decline caused by football. Specific votes are not made public.
Now, at Duerson's request, his brain may contribute to knowledge of how -- and how many -- football players are at risk for C.T.E. Thirteen of the 14 deceased N.F.L. players who have been examined for the disease by the Boston University researchers have been found to have it, although that rate is skewed by the fact that many died in part through acts linked to the disease itself, like suicide, drug abuse or mental breakdown.
There also is a question as to whether the disease derives from a career in pro football or simply from many years of playing football at any level. Last year, C.T.E. was found in the brain of Owen Thomas, a University of Pennsylvania football captain who killed himself in April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAIN (92%); SUICIDE (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BRAIN INJURIES (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); DEPRESSION (76%); DEMENTIA (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); CHICAGO BEARS (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



507 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
SAUDI ARABIA ISOLATED
Amid Unrest in the Mideast
As pro-democracy uprisings spread across the Middle East, the rulers of Saudi Arabia -- the region's great bulwark of religious and political conservatism -- are feeling increasingly isolated and concerned that the United States may no longer be a reliable backer, officials and diplomats say. News Analysis. Page 12
OIL FLOWS DESPITE UNREST
Turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East has helped drive up oil prices to more than $102 a barrel for the benchmark Brent crude. So far, however, there have been no significant disruptions in production or supply, experts say. But nervousness in the oil markets is likely to spread, with so many economies still fragile in the wake of the worldwide economic downturn and with the possibility that it could lead to further increases in food prices. Page 11 
TRIAL SPOTLIGHTS NATIONALISM
Prosecutors in Moscow contend that Nikita Tikhonov's right-wing intellectual pursuits mutated into nationalistic hatred that led him to kill a prominent human rights lawyer and a young journalist two years ago. Whatever his original path, he has come to embody the increasing radicalization of Russia's nationalist movement. Page 6
GEITHNER CRITICIZES CHINA
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner took direct aim at China at a meeting of the world's most powerful economies, saying that its currency was still ''substantially undervalued'' and that recent steps taken by Beijing to adjust its value were too small. PAGE 8
BIG LEAD IN UGANDA VOTE
President Yoweri Museveni appeared to take a commanding early lead on Saturday in the presidential election here, capturing 69 percent of the vote, with about 66 percent of polling sites reporting Page 9
National
CONCERNS OVER FISH
And Energy Production
In the Northwest, embattled fish, many of which are endangered species, are inextricably linked to the majestic and controversially managed rivers they struggle to navigate. And the fish and the rivers have long been at the forefront of another challenge for President Obama: how to create energy and jobs while protecting the environment and reducing carbon emissions. Page 16
INQUIRY SAID TO BE DROPPED
Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles have dropped their criminal investigation into Angelo R. Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide Financial, once the nation's largest mortgage lender, according to a person with direct knowledge of the investigation. Page 17
DOCTOR FACING SUIT DIES
Dr. Melvin D. Levine, a pediatrician who was a leader in the field of learning disabilities, died in North Carolina a day after a sexual abuse and malpractice suit was filed against him in Boston. PAGE 16
Metropolitan
ARMED IN NEW YORK,
Many With Famous Names
A remarkable, if relatively small, cross-section of New Yorkers legally own handguns, according to public records. Among the more than 37,000 people licensed to have a handgun in the city are dozens of prominent business leaders, elected officials, celebrities, journalists, judges and lawyers. Page 1
IT ENDED IN A SUITCASE
In December, a man was caught on surveillance cameras in Harlem disposing of a suitcase that contained the remains of a woman. The victim, Betty Williams, had known the man accused of killing her, Hassan Malik, only for a few days, and questions about the case linger. Page 1
Sports
A CROATIAN SKIER SHARES
Triumphs With His Country
Opinionated, charismatic, witty and irreverent, the Croatian skier Ivica Kostelic dominated in January, capturing seven races in 29 days, including a surprising first victory in the super-G in Kitzbuhel, Austria. The effect he has had on his country and the sport in general with his accomplishments on the tour this season is immeasurable. Page 10
ARMSTRONG'S LEGACY
What happened on the bike and why remain critical to Lance Armstrong's reputation and to the legacy he intends to keep building, as he campaigns to raise more millions and more awareness of the disease that could have killed him before he won any of his Tours de France. Page 5
AN UNCHANGING GOAL
Last year, Chad Jones was on the verge of fulfilling a lifelong dream. A two-sport athlete at Louisiana State, he was about to play in the N.F.L. But after a violent car accident in which he nearly died and came close to losing his leg, he is rehabilitating with the hope of still playing football. William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. Page 1
Obituaries
KATHLEEN HARRIMAN MORTIMER, 93
She was a far less visible public presence than her father, who was a governor of New York and a secretary of commerce. But she was accomplished throughout her life, which stood squarely at the nexus between 19th-century old money and the 20th-century New Woman. Page 24
SANTI SANTAMARiA, 53
He was a chef and restaurant owner who helped raise the international profile of Spanish cuisine, but invited controversy by criticizing avant-garde chefs and their techniques. PAGE 24
Sunday Business
A U.S. DATING SITE
Finds Love in India
In 2008, three young guys in Manhattan started Ignighter.com, a dating Web site focused on 20-somethings. While the site wasn't bringing in much traffic in the U.S., the founders noticed that it was adding thousands of users a day in India. Page 1
A NEW BEDBUG STRATEGY
Research shows that wasps can be taught to sniff out almost anything, even bedbugs. Two scientists want to turn the idea into a product -- the Wasp Hound -- but, like many other innovators, have faced challenges in raising capital. Page 3
PRICE OF STAYING CURRENT
In Best Buy's buyback plan, customers pay for the option to sell their purchases back to the retailer later. But there's fine print. The buyback plan resembles Best Buy's pricey extended warranty plans, and unless consumers are actuarial savants and masters of various risk calculations, it may turn out to be an ill-advised purchase for most of them. Page 3
Automobiles
THE FIRST RIPPLE
In a Potential Chinese Wave
A plug-in hybrid from BYD, a Chinese auto maker, is so bland as to completely escape the notice of fellow drivers on the road. Still, it could make its mark if it clears regulatory hurdles, and this hybrid would the frontrunner in a race to become the first production car in American showrooms from a Chinese automaker, possibly as soon as next spring, the company says. Page 1
THE CAMARO GOES TOPLESS
The revived Chevrolet Camaro has been a big success for General Motors and a vindication for those in the company who fought for its resurrection. Now, the arrival of a convertible version seems to portend even greater glory. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
A STORY OF MISSIONARIES
With a Humorous Twist
''The Book of Mormon,'' a new musical from Robert Lopez and the creators of ''South Park,'' is a sweet show, but with lots of blasphemy and cussing. Page 1
Book Review
WHAT REMAINS:
Chronicles of Widowhood
Joyce Carol Oates's new memoir and Michelle Latiolais's story collection delineate the pain of being a widow. Page 1
Magazine
THE SECRETS
Of a Mind-Gamer
Training the brain to compete in a field where mental athletes can memorize the first and last names of dozens of strangers in just minutes. Page 28
Style
THE LOOKS THAT LINGERED
After the Runways Cleared
New York Fashion Week passed in a blur, but some trends for fall had emerged by the time the last model strutted past. Page 1
Editorial
CUTS THE PENTAGON MISSED
Defense Secretary Robert Gates was right to propose cuts in the Pentagon's budget, but he did not go far enough. Week in Review, Page 9
HIGHER WALLS FOR THE JOBLESS
Barriers to unemployed workers may be even higher than previously thought. Week in Review, Page 9
THIS JUST IN ...
President Obama is neither a foreigner nor a Muslim. These facts do not seem to matter in many quadrants of the Republican Party. Week in Review, Page 9
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
Post-Tucson, the Republican Party desperately seeks a decent presidential candidate and a message broader than Obama hatred. Week in review, Page 12
MAUREEN DOWD
Is technology rewiring our brains to be more callous? Week in review, Page 11
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
To some readers, it can seem as though reporters are in two places at the same time. Week in review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); RIVERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); LITIGATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); FOOD PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (51%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (51%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); MORTGAGE BANKING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANGELO R MOZILO (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); BEIJING, CHINA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) MIDDLE EAST (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); AFRICA (92%); UGANDA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



508 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL BYD F3DM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: First Ripple In a Potential Chinese Wave

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN

 BODY:
GLENDALE, Calif.
LABELS that read Made in China are long familiar to American consumers. But a car for sale in the United States bearing those words -- considering what that might portend for our economy and our self-image -- could deliver a jolt far sharper than discovering that our newest digital gadget was produced in the world's largest exporting country.
Yet there was no wobble to be felt in the earth's rotation as I drove away from Cars 911, a used car dealership in this Los Angeles suburb where BYD Autos has set up temporary North American operations. The generic-looking BYD I was testing -- read what you wish into the company name, whose initials stand for Build Your Dream -- is a compact sedan so bland as to completely escape the notice of fellow drivers.
Still, it could make its mark: if BYD clears the regulatory hurdles, its F3DM plug-in hybrid would be a frontrunner in the race to become the first production car in American showrooms from a Chinese automaker -- arriving as soon as next spring, the company says. 
Despite its potential importance, hardly anybody noticed the F3DM, not surprising given its appearance -- about as trendy as a Y2K-era Toyota Corolla. Until now, the car has been unavailable for test drives in the United States. The view from behind the wheel is as proletarian as it gets: no frills, no flash, no real driving engagement. It would be easy to chuckle at the F3DM's minor flaws -- the wobbly storage compartment between the front seats, subpar floor mats, squishy handling. But the build quality and materials seem perfectly adequate for utility-oriented Americans. The exterior panels line up; audio and air-conditioning buttons are a bit big, but easy to use; seats are reasonably comfortable. Slam the door and it goes ''thunk.''
BYD says that later this year it will submit the necessary filings to obtain federal safety and emissions certification. My test car was a Chinese-issue production model, visiting California on a research exemption. According to company officials, ''close to 10,000'' of the F3DM models have been sold in the home market.
To focus on the F3DM's inconspicuous sheet metal and boring driving experience is to miss the audacity of BYD's strategy. Think of the F3DM as a Chevrolet Volt with a Wal-Mart price tag, a car with a large-capacity battery -- that delivered 31 miles of uninterrupted pure-electric driving for me -- as well as a gasoline engine that gives it the ability to go an additional 300 miles.
General Motors, however, loaded up the Volt with a powerful electric motor, an iPod-like console and a luxury feel that help to justify a $41,000 price tag (before state and federal tax incentives). The F3DM -- which does have an auxiliary audio input jack and a parking sensor -- is expected to sell for less than $29,000. Incentives could drop the price closer to $20,000.
My drive of the F3DM started with the 16-kilowatt-hour battery charged to 95 percent of its usable capacity. Instead of babying it to see how close I could get to the 60 miles of E.V. range BYD claims, I punished the F3DM with a succession of pedal-to-the-floor freeway merges and herky-jerky speeding and slowing, all with the air-conditioning going full tilt.
No matter how hard I floored the accelerator or how hard I pushed to keep pace with the frenzied Los Angeles freeway traffic, the F3DM stayed in purely electric mode, as long as the battery's state of charge was above 20 percent. Acceleration, as expected, was quick off the line -- not as snappy as the Nissan Leaf, but better than electric offerings from niche E.V. makers like Smart and Think.
After 31 miles of this flogging, the battery reached its 20 percent switchover threshold and the car automatically shifted from pure E.V. operation to its hybrid mode.
The F3DM can be described as a plug-in hybrid, but dual mode -- that's what the DM stands for -- is more accurate. Drivers can manually toggle between modes.
The F3DM's E.V. button is not like the one on a regular production Toyota Prius. Those are stingy things, generally yielding a few blocks of engine-off electric driving (Toyota says it can go a mile, conditions permitting). The F3DM's mode choices offer dozens of miles of all-electric driving, even while the switch is in hybrid mode. One day of driving didn't begin to scratch the surface of how to finesse the modes for maximum efficiency.
That will be fun for the tech geeks, but is irrelevant for BYD's aim of bringing a practical energy and environmental solution to a billion potential customers in China -- and a truly affordable option for the growing number of American consumers who just want to get to work with cheap homegrown electricity.
If my destination had been in those first 30 to 40 miles, which the F3DM can easily achieve with sensible driving techniques, and I had the opportunity to charge the car for a full work day or overnight, the gas in the 8-gallon tank would go stale before having a chance to be burned in an engine.
Conserving a precious dwindling commodity is a fine reason to drive a plug-in hybrid, and avoiding price spikes at the pump is another strong incentive. But with the F3DM, there's a more immediate imperative to keep the engine dormant: when the battery drops to a 20 percent charge level, the 3-cylinder engine loudly rumbles into service. No, it's more accurate to say that it screeches like a banshee as it converts gasoline into power that can turn the motor -- now acting as a generator -- to bring up the battery charge to 30 percent.
Much of the recent progress in conventional gas-electric hybrids has been aimed at making a seamless transition from gas to electric and back again. Not so with the F3DM. The car's personality shifts from a quick, nimble and silent E.V. to a revving demon. The steering wheel vibrates. The dashboard hums. You feel the vibration in your molars. As long as the battery pack's charge is in the 20 to 25 percent range, the F3DM's urgent priority is to fill up the batteries to about 30 percent so that electric driving can be resumed. Even at a stop, when other hybrids -- and gasoline-only cars in increasing numbers -- use an idle-stop feature to shut down the engine, the F3DM's engine noisily stays on task.
After about a minute at a standstill, the car's computer reluctantly stops the loud engine. But even a gentle toe on the accelerator brings the engine back to a roar. If you need to accelerate onto the Interstate while the engine is busy recharging the batteries, the engine power is routed directly to the wheels to assist the electric motors, for a total combined output of 168 horsepower.
But as loud as the engine roars, drivers can take comfort: allowing the engine to rev operates the system most efficiently. At a standstill, the engine backs down to about 1,800 r.p.m., just recharging the batteries. Step on the accelerator and it speeds up to about 2,700 to 3,000 r.p.m. for charging plus acceleration. The gas engine is either running hard or running harder.
With some engineering effort, better engine mounts and lots of sound damping, BYD can reduce the din. The company has nearly a year to absorb feedback from spoiled Americans and do something about it. The hardest engineering is done, and there are no showstoppers. All of the problems are fixable without adding a lot of cost.
BYD's to-do list before bringing the F3DM to the United States next year already includes upgrading the charging system with an SAE-standard J1772 connector found on all new plug-in cars.
BYD says the current F3DM will be sold in limited numbers to corporate fleets, but a new and improved version, possibly with a new name, is in the works for individual car shoppers.
What might be harder to fix is Americans' doubt that Chinese cars will be reliable and durable over time. Some industry analysts have suggested that nagging quality problems have cost BYD sales in its own market, even though the gas-only F3 -- the basis for the F3DM -- tallied more than 264,000 domestic sales last year, making it the No. 1 seller in China in 2010, according to J. D. Power & Associates.
BYD's challenge is made more daunting because it will take years to establish a nationwide network of dealers. The company, which will base its American headquarters in downtown Los Angeles, plans to start by opening about five dealerships in early 2012, where it will also sell the e6 pure electric car (with a promised 200-mile range), as well as BYD solar panels, solar-shaded parking systems, home energy-storage systems, charging systems and LED lighting.
By the end of my day with the F3DM, I had logged 112 miles and used 2.3 gallons of gas. That comes to 48.7 m.p.g. for the day, mileage that my 2006 Prius would not have reached given my frequent stomping on the accelerator. It was once thought impossible that Japanese and Korean cars would ride alongside Fords, Chevys and Dodges on American roadways. After my day with the impressive, though imperfect, F3DM, I see that Chinese cars--electric and affordable -- are not only possible, but imminent.
You don't believe it? Then consider the view of the investor Warren E. Buffett, who was on hand in Shenzhen last year to attend the Chinese market debut of the F3DM. His Berkshire Hathaway holding company invested $230 million in BYD in 2008. The latest BYD models will be displayed at a Berkshire Hathaway meeting in May.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEBUTANTE: BYD's plug-in hybrid is just visiting Los Angeles, but it could be the first import by a Chinese automaker.(AU1)
MONITOR: Power-flow displays on a dashboard energy screen.
 ELEMENTAL: Top, Jiangshuai Yu and Owen Wang of BYD. Above, no luxury touches in the plain interior. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SEDANS (73%); USED CAR DEALERS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (56%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



509 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Swarms Of Wasps, If Not Investors

BYLINE: By AMY WALLACE. 
E-mail: proto@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE white paper by the Georgia scientists Glen C. Rains and W. Joe Lewis has a technical-sounding title that masks the exciting news within. ''A Project to Bring Innovative New Technology Into the Market Place for Detecting Agents of Harm in Agriculture, Security, and Human Health/Safety Arenas,'' it says blandly.
Luckily, Prototype is here to translate: Move over, bloodhounds, there's a new odor detector in town.
The Wasp Hound, designed by the two scientists, is a hand-held device containing five parasitic wasps. These flying, stinger-less insects have outperformed dogs in tests that measure scent detection of cadavers, but research shows that they can be taught to sniff out anything: explosives, drugs and even that newly resurgent scourge: bedbugs. 
Yes, wasps can be taught to react to the whiff of bedbugs' pheromones. All that Mr. Rains and Mr. Lewis say they need to get their company, SmartHound Technologies, on the road to addressing the nation's outbreak of bloodsucking pests -- among many other problems -- is $200,000. But so far, raising capital for research and development has been a challenge.
''If you suddenly discover a new chemical, there's all kinds of chemical companies,'' Mr. Lewis says. ''All you have to do is plug it in to an existing infrastructure.'' But when it comes to training bugs to swarm, no infrastructure exists. ''So we've got this new tool with this big gap that we need to cross,'' he adds. ''At this point, that's where we're at: How can we get across that divide and take it to the marketplace?''
The Wasp Hound provides a window into the difficult process of turning scientific research -- especially groundbreaking research -- into a marketable product. Mr. Rains, 45, an associate professor at the University of Georgia, and Mr. Lewis, 68, a retired research entomologist who worked for nearly 40 years for the Agricultural Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture, have jointly patented the Wasp Hound with their respective institutions. They have teamed with the Georgia Centers of Innovation, a state economic development program, to begin attracting investors. But they know they face an uphill battle.
''The term 'wasp' elicits a certain fear, though ours don't sting people and are friendly,'' Mr. Lewis says. Then there's this problem: ''We don't know how to work with people who are venture capitalists. That's not our thing; we're scientists. I guess you'd say we've floundered a little bit.''
The genesis of the Wasp Hound goes back to 1988, when Mr. Lewis and a colleague, J. H. Tumlinson, published a paper in the scientific journal Nature that demonstrated how the associative learning process used by insects rivals that of higher organisms. These findings, which spawned more published papers -- and which Mr. Lewis says were so radical that ''had we suggested them 25 years earlier, we would have been laughed out of our profession'' -- led to the idea that wasps, like dogs, could potentially be used to detect targets.
First, Mr. Lewis and his colleagues had to answer an important question. While their research showed that wasps were undeniably learning and responding to chemicals and stimuli within their natural context, it was less clear whether they could learn to track things not found in their habitats: incendiary devices, say, or the chemicals typically used in arson. The answer: ''We found they could detect almost anything.''
Then it became an engineering problem: how to design a tool that harnessed this insect's skills in a way that people could easily use? That's where Mr. Rains came in. ''We devised a way of detecting the change in behavior of the wasps that would tell us when they detected an odor,'' he says. ''Pavlov's dog, when you rang the bell, would always salivate. Well, wasps don't salivate, but we found some specific behaviors they did do.''
When wasps have been trained to associate a particular odor with a reward -- a good, long drink of sugar water -- they get excited when they smell it. ''They really move around,'' Mr. Lewis says. ''Like pigs to a trough.'' But unlike pigs, these adult wasps live only about three weeks.
Building the Wasp Hound was a process of trial and error. The first device designed by Mr. Rains required the wasps to head toward the odor source by crawling through an opening equipped with an infrared signal that, when interrupted, would alert researchers that the odor was present. But the system didn't provide immediate results necessary to track an odor to its exact location. ''You could tell well before the wasps actually went in the hole that they'd discovered the odor,'' Mr. Rains says.
That prototype was scrapped, and another was designed. This one was equipped with a fan that pulls air into it. If being used in a hotel room, say, it would be aimed at the headboard of the bed, a common spot for bedbugs. A cartridge that contains five wasps is popped into the device. A camera tracks the wasps' movements, and those images are fed into a software program that measures food-searching behavior -- what nonscientists would call swarming. ''It tells us, usually within about 20 seconds, if they've detected the odor,'' Mr. Rains said.
MR. LEWIS says he believes the Wasp Hound could be the first of a series of products that put to use what ''nature invented first.'' With Mr. Tumlinson and another colleague, T. C .J. Turlings, he published an article in the journal Science in 1990, for example, that showed that when a plant is stressed -- a corn seedling, say, being eaten by beet army worms -- it actually sends distress signals, emitting odors that attract the natural enemies of the pests. He says he can envision using certain plants as ''sentinels'' for particular chemicals.
''There's all kinds of ways that harvesting natural systems could create tools,'' he says ''We're just at the tip of the iceberg of potential. An association of industries could develop around it once we make this happen.''
But first, they need the Wasp Hound to pave the way by showing there's a market. While they hope to eventually use the product for all kinds of detection -- from forensics to food safety -- they are counting on the furor surrounding bedbugs to encourage people to give their wasps a chance. A market price for the product has not yet been determined.
The short life span of the wasps may be a drawback, but the insects can be produced ''in large numbers at pennies per thousand,'' Mr. Lewis said. In other words, dogs may be man's best friend, but wasps are cheaper.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glen Rains, left, and Joe Lewis with wasps that can be taught to sniff out most anything, including bedbugs. The men aim to turn the science into a business.
 In their natural state, left, the wasps move randomly. But they cluster to the center when a specific odor is present.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EZRA MILLSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); DOGS (90%); BED BUGS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CHEMICALS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



510 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: A Contender Elbows In

BYLINE: By SPENCER MORGAN

 BODY:
WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif.
A FEW weeks ago, Craig Susser, the former manager of the legendary Hollywood restaurant Dan Tana's, interrupted a morning of paperwork to take a call from one of its regulars, the three-time Stanley Cup champion Junior Langlois.
''Junior, how you doing, handsome? I was going to call you,'' Mr. Susser said, leaning back in a swivel chair from his cluttered desk.
The office was in the back of Craig's, his new restaurant on Melrose Avenue, which in the time-honored ritual of aspiring hot spots, had opened to select customers six days earlier, not far from Tana's and another popular hangout, the Palm.
''I love you, you're my brother, we're not even really open yet,'' Mr. Susser said to Mr. Langlois, and after a few more soothing words, hung up. ''A lot of people are a little upset with me,'' Mr. Susser said, ''that I haven't reached out to them individually.'' 
One might also expect Dan Tana, who is 75, to be upset that his ex-employee -- in another ritual of the restaurant business -- rallied investors for his new place, including the billionaire Gary Winnick and the producer Jerry Weintraub, from within Dan Tana's ranks. Mr. Susser, 45, said he'd been led to believe he was the heir apparent to Mr. Tana, and was taken aback when Mr. Tana sold his place to a friend, Sonja Perencevic, in 2009.
Reached by phone at his restaurant, Mr. Tana said tersely that he wished Mr. Susser well. ''Craig was my eighth manager in almost 60 years. They have all been great and I'm sure Christian will be great, too,'' Mr. Tana said, referring to Mr. Susser's replacement, whose surname he could not recall. ''With each one I lost some new customers and regained some old ones.''
And there are plenty of old ones. Tana's, as it is known, opened in 1964 on Santa Monica Boulevard, serving Italian food to the crowd that overflowed from the Troubadour next door. It quickly joined a Los Angeles-area tradition of clubby-chic industry chophouses that includes Dominick's, where Lew Wasserman and Sidney Korshak had a regular table and whose namesake proprietor sized up prospective diners through a peephole; and Chasen's, now closed, where V.I.P.s had house accounts and the backroom was known as Fresno. (The now-defunct Ma Maison never quite made it into the pantheon -- the food, perhaps, being too good.)
Mr. Susser began waiting on tables at Tana's 23 years ago as an aspiring actor, spending more than a decade on the sleepy Sunday and Monday bartender shift; he was promoted to maitre d' and manager in 2002. He prided himself on handling difficult personalities, like a verbally abusive film executive who demanded a table one crowded New Year's Eve. Mr. Susser offered to make a reservation at the Palm instead.
''That's the least you could do,'' the executive barked.
Mr. Tana taught his protege to cultivate the young, like Paris Hilton and Brandon Davis, while respecting the old (Sumner Redstone enters through the kitchen). Tending to A-listers like George Clooney, Ron Burkle and Mark Wahlberg became Mr. Susser's life. Mr. Clooney picked up the tab from across the room while Mr. Susser was on his second date with his future wife at another restaurant. ''The assist of a lifetime,'' Mr. Susser said.
''If you do it right, you're not just serving food,'' he said of managing diners. ''We play golf together. We hang out together. We're at birthday parties together. People say there's no community in Los Angeles. I'm living proof that there is a community.''
But in recent years, the elites, their noses buried in their BlackBerrys, have lacked a definitive gathering place. The much-ballyhooed arrival of Soho House on Sunset, an import from London and New York with a self-conscious exclusivity, failed to fill the void.
''There's been a long march away from the old customer-focused restaurants,'' said Michael McCarty, proprietor of Michael's, the still-humming power-lunch spots in New York and Santa Monica, Calif. ''The idea comes and goes and it's definitely back. Whenever you get a recession like this, people love the idea of a club where they can come together and see each other.''
The actor Ryan Phillippe, one of 20 investors in Craig's, can be expected to shoo over some stars on Oscar night.
''The institutions that did exist like Chasen's and Morton's are gone,'' said Mr. Phillippe, who is health-conscious and appreciates the salmon and vegetable soup at Craig's. ''I feel like Craig has a good shot, having paid his dues for two decades at an actual L.A. institution. I think he's been schooled and educated in what makes a place last. There's a way that you have to massage people in L.A. or New York and I think he knows how to do that.''
''He lost a lot of money trying to open a place,'' Mr. Susser said. ''He'd say, 'God. L.A. and New York are two totally different animals.' In New York at least you know how the system works. In L.A. you're not really sure.''
His formula will be different from Mr. Tana's (13 red-and-white checkered tables, bearing Chianti jugs and standard Italian fare illuminated by red Christmas-tree lights tacked to the ceiling). Mr. Susser hired the architect J. Scott Charles, a Tana's regular, who asked him to create a storyboard of inspirational images.
''It all came out of old New York, which was where I kind of had to lead him away from that, because we're not in New York,'' Mr. Charles said. ''He had Elaine's up there. He had the Monkey Bar. I think he had some older restaurants in L.A. -- Musso and Frank's -- but it was all that clubby feel that he wanted.''
Instead of the reds and blacks of a traditional men's club, the two men settled on booths in a limpid blue -- ''Cadillac convertible,'' was how Mr. Charles described the color. The walls are brick veneer; the bar, authentic mahogany.
The layout, Mr. Susser explained during a tour of the place, is designed to allow for both privacy and self-display. An ample bar gives patrons room to breathe while they're waiting -- a certain amount of comfortable waiting being essential to the experience, he believes. And ''the entire restaurant can pretty much see the bar,'' Mr. Susser said, ''except for a few tucked-away tables.'' There is no Siberia -- or Fresno.
''It's a hug. It's a warmth. It's cubbyholes,'' Mr. Susser said. ''It's a darkness, but not too dark that you can't see.''
He excused himself to greet Gary Bird, who made a fortune in music-industry trade magazines, and a friend, who had ambled in for an early dinner. Mr. Bird wasn't pleased with the first table he was shown. ''Sit wherever you like, you don't need to throw your weight around,'' Mr. Susser said, joking. ''The place is empty.''
''Hey, if I want to throw my weight around I'll buy half the place,'' bellowed Mr. Bird, settling into a booth.
''Love you,'' Mr. Susser said coyly, walking away.
Billy Arnott, a mustachioed Chicago transplant who defected from a coveted position as manager at the Polo Lounge to be Mr. Susser's maitre d', interrupted to ask where Lynn Wasserman should be seated later that evening.
''I don't know,'' Mr. Susser said with a groan. And then: ''Her father always sat at table one, so put her at table one.'' (Lew Wasserman was a Tana's regular before his death in 2004.)
Other visitors have included the Hilton sisters, Derek Jeter and Jason Pomeranc, a New York hotelier.
''When I spoke to him before he opened the place, he actually said he wanted to open up 'a joint,' was the word he used, and I think that says a lot,'' said Mr. Pomeranc, whose circle of friends has a standing biweekly dinner at Dan Tana's that has relocated to Craig's for the time being. ''I think it's exciting to people, the idea of finding another restaurant to add to that short list of 'this is my regular spot in L.A.' ''
Mr. Winnick, the billionaire investor, strained to think of contenders for that list (''There's the Ivy on Saturday mornings'') and is confident he has a winner in Mr. Susser.
''He's a passionate guy, and also he always took care of me at Dan Tana's,'' he said. ''And then my kids start going and he took care of them. I think Craig's has a real shot.''
A grudging vote of confidence came from Nikki Finke, the hyper-connected blogger for Deadline Hollywood. ''Gotta be a better place than the Grill,'' read her post about Craig's in October.
On a recent night, Ryan Seacrest, the host of ''American Idol,'' was in one booth and Lisa and Brittny Gastineau, the mother-daughter stars of ''Gastineau Girls,'' were at a table nearby.
''What are you doing here?'' Ryan Seacrest exclaimed when he noticed Jerry West, a former star of the Los Angeles Lakers. ''What do you mean?'' Mr. West shot back. ''This is the hottest restaurant in town.''
Well, not quite yet. But it may be getting there.
Ken Ziffren, a heavyweight Hollywood lawyer, said he was impressed by the ''spirit of the place and the diversity,'' noting that he probably won't go to Dan Tana's that often anymore.
''I like the atmosphere here better,'' he said, noting that ''When somebody gets drunk at Dan Tana's and starts talking, it's really loud. Really, really loud.''
Of course, it takes more than the patrons or the food or the noise level to make a restaurant a joint.
''You need a David Chasen or a Peter Morton or an Elaine or a Michael,'' Mr. McCarty said. ''Or a Craig.''
Correction: February 27, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about Craig's, a West Hollywood, Calif., restaurant opened by Craig Susser, referred incorrectly to his father's plans for a West Coast knockoff of P. J. Clarke's. While he had such plans, he never opened such a restaurant.
The article also misidentified who asked the former Lakers star Jerry West, ''What are you doing here?'' in Mr. Susser's restaurant. It was Ryan Seacrest, not Mr. Susser.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HIS JOINT: Craig Susser, right, formerly with Dan Tana's, has opened his own restaurant that threatens to dim his ex-employer's Hollywood wattage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
 NEW FORMULA: Craig Susser, above left, with Lindsey Buckingham of Fleetwood Mac at Craig's in West Hollywood. Left, Mr. Susser, who worked at Dan Tana's, handles reservations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%)

PERSON: JERRY WEINTRAUB (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



511 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3009 words

HEADLINE: A Grande Dame Gets Gnarly?

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON. 
BILL PENNINGTON is a sports reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
FOR years, the problem facing the Bretton Woods ski resort has been entirely its own making: It is too perfect. Perfectly groomed. Perfectly contoured with rough edges softened. Perfectly positioned, shielded from wind and blessed with sun and snow. Perfectly tranquil, neither hurried nor crowded.
Skiers and snowboarders went knowing what to expect. And Bretton Woods, New Hampshire's largest ski area and a historic vacation destination high in the White Mountains, has always delivered. No surprises.
Be careful what you wish for.
Skiers and snowboarders sometimes want a little unpredictability, and Bretton Woods -- part of the only true Alpine range in the Eastern United States -- is nestled among some of the thorniest ski mountains in America. Wildcat Mountain, just around the bend, is big, tough and often icy. Nearby Cannon Mountain hosted the first North American World Cup ski races in 1967, a series discontinued years later, some say, because Cannon was so difficult that the European elite preferred to stay away. 
So, as extreme skiing and rogue backcountry experiences have become more popular in the last 15 years, many snow sports enthusiasts who wanted to be surprised, even scared, drove past Bretton Woods on the way to New Hampshire's gnarlier options. Bretton Woods remained unmoved. It catered to its market: families and those who wanted a more pampered ski trip. In time, some younger voices called Bretton Woods ''Medicare Mountain.''
As a New England native, I first skied Bretton Woods as a college student. After some desultory runs that failed to stir my youthful quest for danger, I soon left for Cannon and its frightfully steep slopes. Ten years later, on a return visit to Bretton Woods, I appreciated newly open terrain that zigzagged around the occasional rock outcropping, yet still found the place a bit tame. In the last few years, however, I started to hear that Bretton Woods, now linked to the famed and adjacent Mount Washington Hotel, was carefully recasting itself.
A college roommate now living in New Hampshire told me it had become his favorite winter destination.
''I'm telling you,'' my friend said. ''New terrain on the mountain, renovated hotel, dog sledding, zip lines, a spa, miles of Nordic skiing, even a nightclub.''
At Bretton Woods? Now this I had to see.
IF you don't ski or snowboard and yet have heard of Bretton Woods, you probably paid attention in your high school history or economics class. In the summer of 1944, with most of the world secure in the belief that the Allies would win World War II, delegates from 44 nations convened at the mountain's Mount Washington Hotel to try to solve a world economically wrecked by the fighting. About 1,000 people arrived at a hotel built in 1902 in the tradition of the grand late-19th-century hotels of northern New England.
The Mount Washington Hotel was, and may still be, the largest wooden structure in New England, a palace built for the rich of New York, Boston and Philadelphia. Constructed on 10,000 acres by the New York rail and coal magnate Joseph Stickney, the hotel's Spanish Renaissance Revival exterior and French Renaissance-style interior were created by 250 Italian craftsmen lured from Boston. The Great Hall lobby has 23-foot ceilings and Tiffany stained-glass windows that also adorn the adjoining dining and meeting rooms. There is a wraparound veranda that extends for a quarter mile.
The hotel had all kinds of innovations and idiosyncrasies: Turkish baths, a squash court, boot and gun rooms, a bowling alley and billiard parlor. Thomas Edison installed the electricity and a stock ticker wired directly to Wall Street. The Italian workers, meanwhile, imparted their own old-world superstitions. The number of steps to the floors, for example, were varied -- 33 to the second floor from the main registration area but only 31 steps in the south tower staircase. Why? To confuse ghosts.
The economic conference -- delegates stayed for three weeks -- and the international publicity it generated revived the hotel, which had been battered by the Depression. But while the meetings, which established the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and produced what is still known as the Bretton Woods agreement, revived the world economy, the post-World War II renewal for New Hampshire's White Mountain resorts was short-lived. Soon the Mount Washington was the last of the grand hotels standing. Never open during the winter season, it endured with the help of hiking trips, summer pro tennis tournaments and waves of golfers arriving for its championship-level golf course designed by the noted golf architect Donald Ross. When the Bretton Woods ski area opened in 1973, the hundreds of thousands of new visitors to the area stayed in cozy condominiums and smaller nearby inns. By 1991, the hotel, worn and threadbare, was put up for auction.
Local businessmen bought the hotel and, six years later, took over the ski area, too. Dozens of trails and lifts were added. The Nordic trail network was enlarged, and in 1999 a winterized hotel opened for the ski season and instantly became one of the largest and most majestic ski lodges in the country.
The mountain continued to develop its reputation for having the best intermediate slopes in the East, earning a loyal following that loved to cruise the miles of genteel, groomed corduroy.
In the latter part of the last decade, and especially since the Omni Corporation began managing the property in 2009, the resort decided to reach for more. The ski area would stretch its horizons and boundaries, and the 200-room hotel would be updated in the hopes of being more than a landlocked Titanic.
I HAVE three ski-racing children, and upon arriving in northern New Hampshire in the middle of a Friday last month, there was no chance we were checking into the hotel before skiing first. Within minutes, thanks to two high-speed lifts, we were flying down the renowned Bretton Woods groomers. I immediately felt as if my memory had deceived me. No, these were not death-defying runs, but they had an old New England feel, with dips and hollows that induced an entertaining rhythm of linked turns.
We ventured over to the West Mountain trails, opened in the late 1990s, and found the long Starr King trail, which had several good drops and pitches that demanded attention. On subsequent runs, we found small detours next to Starr King that cut through the woods, like John Grave's Glades. These were 40-second sojourns, not exactly classic backcountry, but engaging diversions that I didn't recall from past visits. Then again, Bretton Woods has grown to 102 trails, more than doubling what it had when I first visited in the 1980s.
On the east end of the area there was also the Rosebrook Canyon Glades, and it was hard not to enjoy a Bretton Woods tradition -- weaving through stands of birch and pine trees. It had not been a great week for snowfall, and yet there were a few fresh inches of the white stuff underfoot, a product of what is known locally as the ''Bretton Woods flurries.'' Sandwiched between two notches in the mountains, Bretton Woods's peaks get snow even when adjacent areas do not.
''Even when the parking lot gets nothing, there will be three inches of snow up on the trail network,'' said Chris Ellms, director of ski operations at Bretton Woods.
Reliable snowfall fits Bretton Woods's unintimidating aura. As does a trail system that makes sure there are beginner routes from every lift and that every trail filters to the same base lodge so that families can congregate in the same place.
This winter, in an effort to add some spice to the trail mix, Bretton Woods opened 30 new acres of glades on Mount Stickney, a rounded undeveloped hilltop that will most likely be the site of future trail expansion. These new trails, accessible from the top of the Mount Rosebrook Express Summit quad, have a slightly remote, isolated ambience.
''It's a throwback experience, a soft backcountry,'' Mr. Ellms said. ''That's what we're after. We're never going to be Stowe's ultra steep Front Four trails and we don't want to be. But we can give more of a sense of difficulty. We can change the surroundings a little.''
One other thing the Mount Stickney trails offer: unparalleled views of a sprawling white dwelling with a bright red roof on the valley floor.
''What's that?'' my 11-year-old son, Jack, asked, pointing at the Mount Washington Hotel, which almost seemed perched between the tips of our skis as we stood at trail's edge.
''That's where we're staying,'' I answered.
''Let's go there now,'' he said.
No one objected. It was about 2 p.m. In the 15 years we've been skiing as a family, I don't recall any of my children ever wanting to head to the hotel early on a trip's first day of skiing.
''It looks like a castle,'' Jack said.
SINCE 1902, the best seat in the house at the Mount Washington Hotel has probably been next to the oversize hearth opposite the portico entrance. Observing the arrival of new guests -- part of a 109-year procession -- remains an education in itself.
George Miglierini, supervisor of the laborers who built the hotel, was still on the job in 1945 when he told a Boston Globe reporter that he lamented the new kind of Mount Washington guest. ''Now people must rush around and play games,'' Mr. Miglierini said. ''They must be kept amused every minute.''
Watching the cavalcade bursting through the Mount Washington entry on the Friday night of our visit proved that things have not changed much in 60-plus years. The roofs of arriving cars and a succession of bellmen's trolleys were piled high with downhill and Nordic skis, snowshoes, ice skates, swimming pool floatation devices and what looked like rock-climbing gear.
It was going to be a busy weekend.
While my wife and I were sipping wine by the hearth, our children were already in one of several Jacuzzis and soon headed for the heated outdoor pool. Facials were reserved for the next day. As was a late afternoon of dog sledding. Plans were made for a Saturday-night dinner but with an understanding that several runs on the nearby tubing hill would come first. There would be, of course, more Alpine skiing on tap. And Nordic skiing for my wife and one daughter in the afternoon.
All of this had been accomplished not long after check-in with a single visit to the concierge desk, which is really more like an activities reservation center at an amusement park. At other hotels, the concierge might be arranging dinner reservations or finding show tickets. But restaurant options in the Bretton Woods area are limited, there are no Broadway shows, and the closest movie theater is about 15 miles away. No, people flocked to the concierge to make plans to get outside and ski, hike, snowshoe, climb or zip through the air attached to a wire.
Bretton Woods was once understandably worried that its image as a traditional, even timeworn, resort was snuffing out its future. Its new owners are trying to overcome that reputation by embracing the resort's peerless location -- a vast, untamed and original outdoor playground -- while capitalizing upon and modernizing its past.
With this in mind there is Wi-Fi in all the rooms, flat-screen TVs and marble bathrooms. As part of a $60 million restoration project in the last three years, each of the hotel's five restaurants and bars have been refurbished with new menus, including a pub-style steakhouse with a farm-to-table dining menu. The Cave, an underground, Prohibition-era speakeasy, maintains that hideaway ambience with a narrow, tunnel-like entranceway and a dark, distressed wood interior. It also has late-night entertainment.
But the melding of old and new may be most evident in the doors of the hotel rooms, which feature a no-touch wireless entry system in two-inch-thick original mahogany doors that have graced the rooms since 1902.
The hotel also added a 25,000-square-foot spa and a 20,000-square-foot convention center, but those additions were constructed low to the ground and at the back of the property so as not to interfere with the view of Mount Washington from any of the first-floor windows.
The result is bustle within a timelessness, and according to Larry Magor, the resort's managing director who came to Bretton Woods in November 2009, business is up because of it: ''We just kept promoting the ski area and all the other things we have to do up here. Business went up 20 percent in the first year.''
On Friday evening, I looked out toward the snowy mountains from the grand hall and saw a wedding party posing for pictures after a rehearsal dinner next to a couple gliding around on the hotel skating rink. Far off in the distance, people were returning from a snowshoeing expedition, and very near the hotel -- so close I feared they would end up in the background of the wedding party photos -- were three children I recognized in terry cloth robes scampering up a heated walkway from the outdoor pool.
THERE is no time to prepare for the sudden and powerful pull of six barking and excited Alaskan husky sled dogs. The driver gives a command, and with a jerk they dash away, bringing the sled to about 20 miles an hour in a few seconds. Being led through a winter landscape by a team of dogs is not peaceful like a horse-drawn sleigh ride. It is far more engaging, which seems appropriate to the place. Dog-sledding is more like a sport.
Though seated and comfortable, you watch how the lead dogs set not only the pace but also the chosen path, which is far from straight, by the way. The dogs get distracted by the things they see -- deer, birds, was that a moose? -- and the sled veers hither and thither. It's part of the adventure. The dogs work in unison, and sometimes they do not. In time, you feel less along for the ride than part of the team.
In time, you also get to know the dogs, many of them rescued from shelters. You learn their names, and their personalities by watching them work. The solidarity, the cold and the mission at hand -- go somewhere but get back to where you started, too -- delivers its own sense of purpose. And heading back to the hotel, with the dogs in an easy canter, yields its own kind of restful calm. And in the end, you have spent another 40 minutes in the New Hampshire countryside in a way that's different from the usual family ski trip.
It was certainly a different experience from our typical ski trips. We are that ski family marching through the hotel lobby at 8 a.m., dressed, instant oatmeal eaten, ready to be at the lifts when they open at 8:30. It's part of the racer's lifestyle to train early; even on vacation, we remain creatures of habit.
Ever wonder who gets those choice parking spots in the front row right by the base lodge? It's people like us.
But our trip to Bretton Woods jarred us out of our admittedly maniacal routine. While Bretton Woods has done much to offer more diverse terrain, it does not have boundless stashes of untracked powder longing to be discovered by dawn's early light. Getting first tracks on the steepest tracks is a big thing at other resorts; it's not so important at Bretton Woods.
So we took it a little easier. We rose a little later (parking all the way back in the sixth row), and we once again left the mountain a little earlier for the dog sledding, the tubing and the Nordic skiing, which is not to be underestimated. With nearly 70 miles of trails, Bretton Woods has one of the largest cross-country trail systems in the East.
This is not to demean the downhill skiing at Bretton Woods. If anything, it is -- to coin a phrase -- perfect for the majority of family-oriented skiers. For the super-serious skiers and riders who want more consistent challenge, there are other resorts that would be a better choice.
But my family's recent weekend is testament to how the Bretton Woods approach -- call it active culture multitasking -- can work even for the hard core among us. We won't be abandoning our favorite mountains, but Bretton Woods has filled a gap in our understanding of what can make a great winter trip. We got out and enjoyed a variety of snow-related activities, and when we were done we sank into the charms of a grande dame of a hotel. It was a nice change of pace.
At some point during our visit last month, I recalled a conversation in the car from a different family excursion to New Hampshire a few years earlier. Weaving our way south after a day at Wildcat Mountain, we started to pass various other resorts. We had skied all of them.
As we passed Bretton Woods, my wife said, ''And what's this place?''
''We've never been there,'' I said. ''It's known for impeccable grooming. Big place, good snow and just lots and lots of comfortable cruising trails.''
My wife turned to me: ''And why exactly haven't we been there?''
IF YOU GO
Full-day lift tickets at the Bretton Woods ski area (brettonwoods.com) are $37 to $76, with discounts for staying at one of the resort's lodging properties. The price for a three-and-a-half-hour canopy tour, a series of treetop zip lines, is $99 to $110. A shorter racing zip line is $15 a ride. Reservations are suggested: (603) 278-4947.
Dog-sledding tours are about $100 for two people in a sled with each additional person an additional $32. A Nordic trail day pass costs from $7 to $17 (rental gear is available). Call the resort at (800) 314-1752 for additional information on all programs.
There are accommodations in a handful of resort-owned properties including town houses and an inn, but the cynosure of the resort is the Mount Washington Hotel, which has 200 rooms and suites. Rooms are priced from $229 to $449 with suites from $409 to $829. Lodging reservations: (800) 680-6600.
The hotel and ski area are on Route 302, about 160 miles from Boston and 350 miles -- or a six-and a-half-hour drive -- from New York City.
There are nonstop flights operated by US Airways and United Airlines from La Guardia to Manchester, N.H., the nearest major airport to Bretton Woods. Continental flies from Newark to Manchester; US Airways and United fly from Philadelphia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mount Washington Hotel in the White Mountains, above, and skiers on the slopes of Mount Rosebrook in the Bretton Woods ski area, below.(TR1)
Cole Sullivan of Nashua, N.H., playing in the heated outdoor pool at the Mount Washington Hotel, which underwent a $60 million restoration. (TR6)
LEFT: Dog sledding through a winter landscape with a team of Alaskan huskies.
RIGHT: Raylene Becht helps her son Adam with his boots at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6-TR7)
TOP: Delegates from 44 nations at the economic summit in 1944 at the Mount Washington Hotel. ABOVE: In the Cave bar at the hotel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BETTMANN/CORBIS) (TR7) MAP (TR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (93%); SNOWBOARDING (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESORTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); DOGS (68%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (77%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



512 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Writing 'Danger' In Ever-Larger Letters

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE stock market has been thrilling lately. Thanks to the marvel of the mobile Internet, I've been able to check my account balances throughout the day, just for the pleasure of watching them rise -- which is probably a sign that something's wrong.
Investing isn't a sport, after all. As Benjamin Graham, the father of value investing, put it years ago, ''The investor's chief problem -- and even his worst enemy -- is likely to be himself.'' Taking too much joy in a bull market can be just as dangerous as panicking mindlessly in a market fall. 
In need of an antidote for my buoyant mood, I turned to a man whose outlook is as bleak as an ice storm -- Robert Prechter, the veteran market strategist, who makes garden-variety bears look like pussycats.
I last spoke to Mr. Prechter about six months ago, just before the Fourth of July weekend, and he predicted a market crash of monumental proportions -- perhaps the biggest decline of the last 300 years. Within six years, he said, the economy would be mired in a great depression, shattering millions of lives and devastating anyone foolish enough to hold stocks.
So far, though, the market hasn't fallen. It has climbed, delightfully so, for those of a bullish persuasion. As measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, it has risen more than 30 percent since his gloomy pronouncement.
Did the powerful rally surprise him? ''It certainly did,'' he said. In a lengthy e-mail, however, he pointed out that he hadn't said the big crash would take place overnight.
Does he still believe that the catastrophe is coming? Oh, yes, he said, adding that, if anything, the recent good news for investors has made the outlook over the next several years much worse. ''The market,'' he said, ''appears much more dangerous today than it was last summer.''
Mr. Prechter, based in Gainesville, Ga., is a social theorist and technical market analyst with a very unconventional approach. It is based on his own version of the Elliott Wave Theory, which originated in the writings of Ralph Nelson Elliott, an accountant who found repetitive patterns, or ''fractals,'' in the stock market of the 1930s and 40s. The market still moves in cycles, large and small, Mr. Prechter says, based mainly on ''social mood,'' which, in turn, influences the economy.
The current cycle will lead the unwary to ruin, he says, ''We are in a long-term bear market that started in 2000.'' He says the rally that has been so enjoyable for stock investors is just a mini-cycle in that longer swoon.
''I think the bear market will end when most debtors default and the media change from calling it a great recession that's over to calling it a great depression that isn't,'' he says.
Part of his argument will be familiar to anyone who follows the financial news. We are living ''in a world saturated with debt,'' he says. ''Newly conservative regulatory policies have been clamping down on bank credit,'' he adds. ''State and local governments will soon cut spending and borrowing, and when the federal government finally cuts spending and borrowing and the Fed -- either from within or without -- is forced to stop'' its quantitative easing program, the game will be up.
Of course, his picture of the world differs markedly from those of mainstream market analysts. For example, I chatted on the phone last week with Tad Rivelle, the chief investment officer for fixed-income at TCW in Los Angeles, who also says he sees trouble coming in the Treasury market. The Federal Reserve's unorthodox monetary policy -- the near-zero short-term rates and the large-scale purchases of Treasury securities in the Fed's quantitative easing program -- will need to be unwound, leading to a spike in yields over the next year and a half, he said.
But he took a measured view. Whether rising yields have a severe impact on the economy will depend largely on government fiscal policy, Mr. Rivelle said. ''If policy makers in Washington do what they need to,'' and make credible cuts in the budget deficit, he said, the economy can have a ''slow moderate recovery over the course of a very long time.''
Similarly, James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, also focused on the Fed. ''The key investment question over the next two years is whether the Fed's policy will lead to excessive inflation,'' he said. He also said that ''we will probably have a market correction at some point this year.'' But he remains relatively sanguine. It is likely, he says, that inflation will be moderate, and that the overall trend for the economy and the stock market will be quite positive.
MR. PRECHTER proudly marches to a different drummer. He says he is sorry that people who have listened to his advice over the last six months have had to watch from the sidelines while others prosper. ''Being bearish in recent months was wrong, but I think it was prudent,'' he says.
Danger is lurking, he warns, and not just in stocks, but also in bonds and commodities and other asset classes. ''I have no interest in investing in any traditional financial market,'' he says. ''They are all dangerously over-owned, overpriced and overleveraged.''
If you do hold stocks, this isn't the time to just sit back and watch your account balances rise, he says. ''I believe deeply that opting for maximum safety is the right thing to do,'' he says. ''I think bulls are about to lead people over a cliff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Being bearish in recent months was wrong,'' says the market forecaster Robert Prechter, ''but I think it was prudent.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



513 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE BLOG; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Civic GX Tops Green List Again

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
THE American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a Washington-based nonprofit group financed by foundations, electric utilities and state and federal agencies, released its annual list of the greenest vehicles of the model year on Tuesday. With six new models, this year's list differs markedly from last year's group. 
With the Nissan Leaf electric car and Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid now available the United States, one would think they would duke it out on the group's list for top honors, too. Not so.
The Leaf earned second place in this, the council's 14th Green Book annual ranking. The Volt finished in 13th, while topping the list for the eighth consecutive year was the Honda Civic GX, a limited-production model that burns compressed natural gas.
In between are conventional hybrids and vehicles with old-fashioned gasoline engines. In fact, seven of the vehicles on the list have only gasoline engines.
How can this be? The council uses a holistic method of calculating the slippery notion of greenness, which expands on the fuel-efficiency and tailpipe-emissions considerations made by the Environmental Protection Agency.
''We consider not just what emissions are coming out of the tailpipe while the vehicle is running,'' said Therese Langer, the group's transportation director, in a telephone interview. ''The E.P.A. would consider the Leaf a zero-emissions vehicle because electric vehicles have zero tailpipe emissions,'' she said.
The so-called upstream emissions of an electric vehicle, however, could be substantial, she said, depending on where and how its electricity was generated. Electricity produced hydroelectrically, for example, would generally produce far lower carbon emissions than energy produced by burning coal.
But the council methodology also includes emissions associated with the generation of the electricity used to power a battery: the production of raw materials like steel and aluminum and a lithium-ion battery unit, including its eventual disposal.
This was the first year in which the group incorporated emissions data associated with battery manufacture and disposal, for which it used the Greet model created by the Argonne National Laboratory.
That explains why hybrids, which rely on power generated by electric motors and stored in batteries, claimed just three of the top 13 spots this year, compared with five in 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EIGHTH WIN: The limited-production Honda Civic GX runs on compressed natural gas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); RANKINGS (75%); BATTERY MFG (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



514 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2755 words

HEADLINE: Deal With The Devil

BYLINE: By WILLIAM LOGAN. 
William Logan's most recent book of poetry is ''Strange Flesh.''

 BODY:
ELIZABETH BISHOP AND THE NEW YORKER
The Complete Correspondence
Edited by Joelle Biele
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. 421 pp. $35.
PROSE
By Elizabeth Bishop
Edited by Lloyd Schwartz
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. 507 pp. Paper, $20.
POEMS
By Elizabeth Bishop
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. 352 pp. Paper, $16.
In the decades since her death in 1979, Elizabeth Bishop has been recognized as an American original, as much ours and not ours as Whitman, Dickinson and that transplanted Yankee Robert Frost. A reader's appetite for the lives of beloved poets can be hard to satisfy. Their mortgages are subject to scholarly study, their medical records sold in shadowy alleys, their childhood friends dunned to offer up nuggets of gossip. We would read their shopping lists if we could -- such things make them more human, and therefore slightly inhuman, since how is it possible that the authors of ''Leaves of Grass'' or ''Because I Could Not Stop for Death'' or ''North of Boston'' could have needed new stockings, and hair oil, and cornflakes? 
The three selections of Bishop's letters already published are now followed by one much quirkier, ''Elizabeth Bishop and The New Yorker,'' containing some 40 years' worth of exchanges between the editors of that famously secretive magazine and that famously retiring poet. Bishop's personal letters, like her poems, were full of deftly seen detail and mordant self-mockery. A little of that leaked even into these business letters, particularly after her editors became her friends. (It was hard for the editors to remember that when they became her friends they were no longer exactly her editors.) A world-class procrastinator and Olympian ditherer, Bishop sometimes didn't finish a poem for decades -- she lobbied to be the magazine's poetry critic, but when appointed never turned in a single review. Too much of this overlong book is devoted to the editors' ritual cajolery; apologetic promises by Bishop; promises piled upon promises, like Pelion on Ossa, with excuses added to order; belated submissions; rapid acceptances (or, more rarely, rejections); and the inevitable wrestle over editing.
The difficulties were compounded by distance. For most of two decades, Bishop lived in Brazil, having fallen in love with a Rio aristocrat while recovering from an allergic attack after eating cashew fruit. Her small inheritance went much farther there, and living abroad kept her out of the storms of American literary life. Between the perils of airmail and the untrustworthy Brazilian postal system (street mailboxes were apparently never emptied), and the lost letters and wayward proofs that followed, it was a miracle there was any editing at all.
The major theme of these letters is, of all things, punctuation. Though she graduated from Vassar, Bishop was a haphazard and cruelly inventive minder of stops. (''Punctuation is my Waterloo,'' she wrote glumly.) Tourists hauled in off the Copacabana beach could have given her lessons; but it was up to her editors, chiefly Katharine White and later Howard Moss, to puzzle out her meanings and clarify her unintentional ambiguities. The magazine had a somewhat strait-laced view of grammatical rules (and other things -- for years the two women addressed each other as Miss Bishop and Mrs. White). Her forbearing editors, however, dismissed many in-house queries, often allowing Bishop to decide just how far toward sanity she was willing to go. All this is amusing; but the book's editor, Joelle Biele, has crammed in footnotes that record every comma the editors introduced, or failed to introduce, or asked the gods of punctuation for permission to introduce. These footnotes are possibly the dullest ever written.
The New Yorker has been the premier American literary magazine for most of a century. To be published there is a rite of passage for a young writer, though when the magazine was founded in 1925, after a decade in which Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, Robert Frost, Marianne Moore and Wallace Stevens had revolutionized American poetry, it devoted itself to light verse. Later the magazine was spurned by Robert Lowell, who objected to the triviality of New Yorker poems. (Pound in his dotage was published there for the first and last time, Moss once told me, because the magazine learned he needed major dental work.)
The New Yorker has suffocated at times beneath a mask of wry gentility. For all its glossy reputation, the magazine still turns up its nose at stories and poems that make too many demands on the reader. It's a middlebrow journal for people who would like to be highbrows -- and perhaps for highbrows who love a little slumming. The cartoons, as Biele notes, provide an antiphonal chorus to the reckless consumerism of the ads. Just as the literature is for those who want to think themselves literary, the ads are for those who want to think themselves rich. (If you were old money, you'd already own Tiffany by the trunkload.) Bishop's close association with the magazine, almost all her best poems appearing there after 1945, probably contributed to her struggle to be taken seriously. To be a New Yorker poet was sometimes a deal with the devil.
Bishop's father died of Bright's disease when she was an infant. Her mother carted the baby home to Canada and back, hither-thither, becoming so distraught she was finally confined to a mental hospital. A quiet tug of war developed between her mother's doting parents in Nova Scotia and her father's wealthier and more conventional parents in Massachusetts. The latter, shocked to find the child being raised barefoot in a muddy village, dragged her back to the States for a proper education. (It was a shock at first -- Bishop didn't care to be an American and loathed saluting the flag.) The girl never saw her mother again.
Bishop suffered from a streak of perfectionism in a personality pricked with self-doubt and almost paralyzed by shyness -- for all her mixed feelings about Emily Dickinson, whose letters Bishop found embarrassing, there was more than a little of the Amherst poet in her character. Bishop finished her poems slowly, when she finished them at all (though one of her best, ''Visits to St. Elizabeths,'' was written in 24 hours). Among the minor comedies of these letters is Howard Moss pleading, year after year, for a poem he had once caught a glimpse of. Yet the perfectionism oddly made her work spring forth freshly, when it sprang. The melancholy beneath the joy of seeing darkened a style of startling and even uncomfortable vivacity.
These letters offer a rare view into The New Yorker's inner chambers, as well as a workshop in editing, an editor's chief requirement being a talent for diplomacy. At times the politeness of poet and magazine seems that of two countries about to go to war -- tactful enough with her editors (though she felt that reading the magazine was like ''eating a quilt''), in letters to friends Bishop groused about the revisions proposed. (''They once put 23 commas in a long poem of mine,'' she groaned.) Every poem was read multiple times by multiple people. The legal department was consulted lest a law be broken, the fact department checked lest a fact go astray; the editors were allowed their way with the poem, and the proof room and makeup department their way; and finally the poor poet, at the bottom of this heap of helpfulness, was allowed to protest about commas merrily broadcast or facts too soon made glad. The reader begins to suspect that a dozen other departments, some with no name at all, were lodged in the obscure warrens of that Kafkaesque organization.
Early in the 1960s, Bishop gave up her first-reading contract with the magazine on the grounds that she wanted to write more ''experimental'' poems; but she submitted her best work anyway and came meekly back to the fold not many years later. She discovered that because of her years away she was ineligible for a New Yorker pension, which was apparently almost impossible to understand or calculate anyway. No one could explain any better the cost-of-living-adjustment checks she received, sometimes followed by further checks to adjust the adjustments. There has not been an accounting scheme so Byzantine since Byzantium.
Bishop was fortunate in her editors, who were half in love with her -- and what fine and close readers they usually were, niggling but caring. Still, the magazine could go too far. When Bishop referred to a ''large aquatic animal,'' the editor in chief Harold Ross, who insisted on understanding every poem his magazine published, wanted to know which animal. Bishop eventually grew impatient with the long wait for publication, some poems lingering for a year or more in the ''bank'' -- a mysterious repository that proved merely an office wall with a note card for each unpublished piece, pinned like a dead butterfly. Once she threw a fit when a poem was printed in the back pages. Ruffled feathers were soon smoothed, and things went on as before. And a few times a year, one by one, in came the poems we now know so well; and they were snapped up, one by one.
The book does one injustice to Howard Moss, that most conscientious and fastidious of editors. What had been ''a creature divided'' in the draft of a Bishop poem published weeks after she died was printed as the clunky ''contrarily guided.'' Moss has been blamed, her proof copy having disappeared; but there's no evidence elsewhere in these letters of an editorial change so radical or highhanded. Bishop, on the other hand, once altered ''Pajama'd aunts'' to ''Ananadrous aunts'' and ''dancing eyes'' to ''avernal eyes.'' The peculiar revision is more likely hers.
Editions of Bishop's work have proliferated over the decades. ''The Complete Poems: 1927-1979'' and ''The Collected Prose,'' both published in the years just after her death, were followed by two volumes of letters and Alice Quinn's captivating edition of the unfinished poems (which introduced readers to the hopeless disorder of Bishop's desk), not to mention a compendious Library of America volume (including yet more letters) and even a book of the poet's crude watercolors. Now come newly edited and much fattened collections called simply ''Prose'' and ''Poems.''
Bishop was first and last a poet, but she was keenly aware that for poets the wages of sin are poverty (''I'm desperate for CASH!'' she wrote a friend). The old ''Collected Prose,'' put together by her publisher Robert Giroux, has more than doubled in size, stories and memoirs and essays now crowded into a miserly format with narrow margins and unpleasantly cheap paper. Edited by Bishop's friend Lloyd Schwartz, who has vacuumed out the archives, ''Prose'' is a seedy warehouse of goods mostly unwanted and unloved. Bishop's short stories were derivative fantasies out of Kafka and Hawthorne, when not painfully static versions of her unhappy childhood. She had, however, a natural gift for memoir -- her moving recollections of the Nova Scotia village, the dislocated months in Worcester and post-college life in New York possess all the rueful charm of her poems.
''Prose'' has been pieced out, alas, with humdrum reviews and critical essays (when pressed, Bishop tended to hurl quotes at the reader), a mostly unnecessary selection of college juvenilia, a few translations and the original version of her travel book ''Brazil,'' commissioned for the Life World Library and ever after regretted by Bishop. She accused the editors of massive rewriting, but that isn't quite true. The Life editors were gung-ho about economic development (the phrase ''ugly price of progress'' was dropped), and like provincial boobs they changed Bishop's description of the Iguacu Falls from ''three or four times greater and more magnificent than Niagara'' to ''almost as spectacular.'' Even so, most of her prose was left intact, and what was revised was often just tightened or corrected. Yet how laborious, how dull, the Brazil book is, livened only by a colorful anecdote or two. (A Brazilian who did nothing after being insulted was asked if he was a man. He replied: ''Yes, I'm a man. But not fanatically.'')
Of far more value are the poet's confiding letters to Anne Stevenson, then writing the first book on Bishop's work. The poet, who didn't usually discuss her life, revealed that she had always wanted to write pop songs, wished she had gone to med school, and liked children, at least until they were 3. She recalled a little proudly that Hemingway had said of her poem ''The Fish,'' ''I wish I knew as much about it as she does.''
The new editor reproduces the memoirs and stories just as they appeared in ''The Collected Prose.'' Giroux was a fine publisher; but he was a meddling editor of the old school, and his work with manuscripts cannot be taken on trust. This ungainly book is marred by a lack of notes (without explanation, Stevenson is suddenly addressed as Mrs. Elvin); and it's a pity to find in Bishop's favorite piece of prose, a gallery note for the painter Wesley Wehr, the sentence ''Some pictures may remind one of agates, the form called '[illegible].' '' A glance at the manuscript at Vassar, where it's held, shows that the missing words were ''thunder egg.'' The editor might have asked a geologist.
Readers will delight in Bishop's letters and wade through her prose, all for the sake of her odd, whimsical, heartbreaking poems, poems like no one else's. She hated being compared to Marianne Moore, whom she met while still at Vassar; but Moore's sidelong eye and attraction to the exotic were an indelible influence. Bishop saw the world with a willed innocence, which was not, not exactly, that of a miserable adult trying to relive childhood. Yet the pathos of such innocence lies in our knowing it is experience denied.
From a distance, Bishop's poems are all more obviously, and all more unsettlingly, products of a life and a time. ''A Miracle for Breakfast'' is now plainly a poem of the Depression and ''Sestina'' that of an orphan in a house of secrets. Her famous descriptions can be rather severe in their dissociation -- the world is freshly grasped, but also desperately transformed. A way of seeing was for her a way of knowing -- and it was an unusual eye that could have seen, in ''The Bight,'' harbor water the ''color of the gas flame turned as low as possible,'' and the local pelicans that ''crash / into this peculiar gas unnecessarily hard,'' then ''going off with humorous elbowings.'' ''Poems'' includes all the published work, with a generous sampling of the unpublished poems. Oddly, though ''Poems'' and ''Prose'' look like matched volumes, the poems have been given the finer grade of paper. There are, however, too many sections of uncollected this and uncollected that -- this was a lost opportunity to find a more rational organization for her work.
Bishop's lightness of bearing cannot disguise a darkness of being. Gaiety barely disguises the resistant sadness -- there is a peculiar infantilism in Bishop, and I fear that is what we love. Yet her warmth and reticence divide her from the confessional poets whose blared secrets she so disliked. She was a displaced person, physically and emotionally; her poems reveal that terrible rootlessness, even when rooted in Nova Scotia, or Florida, or Brazil (she joked that she moved ''coastwise''). Even her first book was discreetly fashioned like an itinerary, from childhood in Nova Scotia through New York, Paris and Key West.
Bishop worried that she had ''wasted half one's talent through timidity'' and feared that her poems were ''precious''; yet her luxuriant vision is tempered and restrained by the anxieties beneath. Her weaker /poems ramble prosaically, offering only a scatty attention to the world; and perhaps one day readers will find her portraits of Brazilians affectionate but condescending -- drawn to the quaint and naive, she was all too privileged an outsider.
This poet of travel and dream, of lost childhood, of angular moral vision (and a gloomy soul) lived in a 20th century still at times lost in the 19th -- indeed, the untouched jungle of the Brazilian poems sometimes harks back to the Americas newly discovered. Though American as apple pie, this three-quarters Canadian, sometime Brazilian could easily be considered the national poet of Canada or Brazil. In ''The Man-Moth,'' ''A Miracle for Breakfast,'' ''Cirque d'Hiver,'' ''The Bight,'' ''The Armadillo,'' ''The Burglar of Babylon,'' ''Sestina,'' ''Visits to St. Elizabeths'' and a dozen others, she invented countries on a map she had drawn herself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROLLIE MCKENNA/ROSALIE THORNE MCKENNA FOUNDATION
 COURTESY OF THE CENTER FOR CREATIVE PHOTOGRAPHY, UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA FOUNDATION (1951)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (77%); POSTAL SERVICE (60%); MEDICAL RECORDS (55%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (66%)

TITLE: Elizabeth Bishop and The New Yorker (Book); Prose (Book); Poems (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



515 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORSPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Nascar's Changes Spice Up Spectating

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
THE Daytona 500 is to be run for the 53rd time on Sunday, and the 10th time since Dale Earnhardt was killed in a final-lap accident on Feb. 18, 2001, stunning even those who hardly knew what a stock car was.
Earnhardt, the brash driver nicknamed ''the Intimidator,'' seemed indestructible, which may explain why his death is felt to this day. 
After a spectacular surge in growth and popularity after Earnhardt's death, the sport has been walloped by the poor economy in recent years, drawing fewer fans and lower television ratings. But the Daytona 500, the first of 36 races in the Sprint Cup Series that extends till November, is still the race that stock-car drivers most want to win.
Here are some things to look for when the green flag drops:
-- All competitors will be using fuel that is 15 percent ethanol this season, which may affect fuel mileage calculations and end-of-race strategy. E15 could also prove to be harder on engines.
-- New rules on pit road may also affect the speed of pit stops. Nascar is allowing one fewer person over the wall this season, eliminating the catch-can man and transferring some tuning duties to already frazzled crew members.
-- By announcing two technical rules changes last week, Nascar is hoping to lessen the number of extended two-car drafts that dominated the Budweiser Shootout, a warm-up race on Feb. 12 for the Daytona 500. Because Nascar mandates restrictor plates to limit airflow and lower speeds at Daytona, cars pair up to improve aerodynamics. That will be harder to do now.
Nascar also altered the restrictor plates this week to reduce speeds that reached over 200 m.p.h. during the Shootout.
-- Nascar has abandoned the arcane points system used since 1975; drivers will now receive 43 points for first place, 42 for second and so on. The race winner also gets three bonus points, while one point, not five, will be awarded to drivers who lead at least one lap.
-- Some drivers to watch on a track that has been repaved since last year's pothole-marred 500: the Hendrick Motorsports quartet of Dale Earnhardt Jr., Jeff Gordon, Jimmie Johnson and Mark Martin; the owner-driver Tony Stewart; the brothers Kurt and Kyle Busch; last year's points runnerup, Denny Hamlin; and Kevin Harvick, Jeff Burton and Clint Bowyer, who drive for Richard Childress, Earnhardt's former boss.
-- A driver in a Chevrolet has won seven of the last 10 Daytona 500s. McMurray drove a Chevrolet to victory at Daytona last year, although the two previous Daytona 500s were won by Matt Kenseth in a Ford in 2009 and Ryan Newman in a Dodge in 2008. Lee Petty, Richard's father, won the first Daytona 500 in 1959 in an Oldsmobile.
-- Look for a Chevy out front even before the race starts. For only the fourth time over all, a Camaro will pace the field. The ''Victory Red'' Camaro 2SS Coupe has a 426-horsepower 6.2-liter V-8 engine. Another Camaro will pace the Indianapolis 500 in May on the 100th anniversary of the first running of that iconic race.
-- Johnson, back in the driver's seat of the formidable blue No. 48 Chevrolet, begins his pursuit of his sixth straight Sprint Cup championship, which would extend his record. Earnhardt and Richard Petty each won seven championships in Nascar's top series, so Johnson, a 35-year-old Californian, is venturing into elite territory.
-- Gordon returns for a 19th season after he faded at the end of last season to finish ninth. His No. 24 Chevrolet will look much different than it has during most of his career, when his blue car was primarily sponsored by DuPont. Now primarily sponsored by the AARP Foundation's Drive to End Hunger, his car will be deep red with black highlights.
-- Martin, 52, is often overshadowed by his Hendrick Motorsports teammates, but he is still considered a solid contender. Martin has earned more than $78 million in Nascar's top series, but has never won the Daytona 500 or the series' championship.
-- Earnhardt, the 36-year-old son of the legendary driver, earned the pole position for the first time. But a practice crash on Wednesday forced him to his backup car and he will start from the rear. Dale Jr. won the 2004 Daytona 500 in his No. 8 Budweiser Chevrolet and finished second to Jamie McMurray in last year's race. He also won the first race held at Daytona after his father died, the Pepsi 400 in July 2001.
Television cameras are all but sure to scan the grandstands on the third of 200 laps in Sunday's race, because speedway officials asked fans last week to hold up three fingers during the lap in memory of Earnhardt, whose black Chevy was adorned with the tilted No. 3. They are also asking for a moment of silence during the lap, but the cars will still run full bore.
Online Correction: February 18, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misnamed the primary sponsor for Jeff Gordon's No. 24 Chevrolet. The primary sponsor is the AARP Foundation's Drive to End Hunger, not the Drive for Hunger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PACESETTERS: Camaros will lead the field at Daytona, top, and Indianapolis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (91%); NASCAR RACING (91%); ALCOHOLS (68%); ETHANOL (68%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



516 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Not Ready for College: Behind the Numbers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Data on New York's Graduates Show Most Aren't College-Ready'' (front page, Feb. 8): 
New statistics indicate that while the graduation rate of New York City students is 64 percent, only 23 percent of these students are college-ready. Why the disconnect?
Some of the discrepancy can be explained by the trend in recent years to make standardized tests for third to eighth graders easier to pass (a trend that was reversed last year), which did not correlate to high school success.
An additional factor, however, is the trend to inflate the grades of students who are rewarded for criteria other than mastery of the course material, like completing homework assignments, behaving well in class and being prepared, organized and hard-working. Thus, end-of-semester grades often reflect student compliance rather than subject mastery.
New York City data parallel the nationwide trend. The 2010 ACT National Report, which analyzed student performance scores in four subjects -- English, mathematics, reading and science -- showed that only 24 percent of graduating seniors were ready to do college-level work.
Andrew Peiser New York, Feb. 8, 2011
The writer is associate professor of education at Mercy College.
To the Editor:
State and city education officials are primarily evaluating college readiness in terms of standardized test scores, and their main proposal for improving readiness is to make their high-stakes tests more difficult to pass.
But this response will place additional emphasis on test-driven education, which can turn students off to learning. Students feel that they must work hard simply to meet external testing demands and often develop an antipathy for the material.
True readiness for college includes a capacity to become excited by ideas, a wish to expand one's mind and a willingness to throw oneself into work for its own sake -- all qualities that test-driven education undermines.
William Crain New York, Feb. 8, 2011
The writer is a professor of psychology at City College.
To the Editor:
As an older adult, I am encouraged to see state education officials pushing to align education standards with college preparedness as new data show less than half of New York students leaving high school prepared for college. Policy makers should also consider quality pre-K as another proven reform strategy. Decades of research show that high-quality pre-K results in improvements that benefit all generations: greater academic performance, higher high school graduation rates, better earnings and employment rates.
Congress is currently rewriting our nation's major education law, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. To provide all children with an equal opportunity to become college- and career-ready, it must include a federal investment in pre-K and provide flexible incentives to states like New York to continue investing in quality early education during difficult budget times.
Ultimately, all generations benefit when we invest in an education proved to save taxpayer money and close achievement gaps.
Paul Arfin New York State Coordinator Generations United's Seniors4Kids Hauppauge, N.Y., Feb. 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); TRENDS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); GRADES & GRADING (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); CHILDREN (75%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); HOMEWORK (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: ACT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



517 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers May Come to Charter Schools' Aid

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
It took seven years for Houston-based Harmony Public Schools, the state's largest charter network and one of its best academically, to secure a bank bond in 2007 to buy and remodel buildings on its 33 campuses. Since then, it has obtained two additional bonds -- the most recent for $90 million issued last year -- to continue its expansion.
While school officials are pleased to have obtained the bonds, Harmony ends up paying a higher interest rate than a traditional public school with the same kind of loan. The reason? Charter schools cannot access the state's Permanent School Fund, which guarantees bond issues for public schools, allowing them to borrow at substantially lower rates. 
Soner Tarim, Harmony's superintendent, estimates that his organization will pay an extra $50 million to $60 million in interest over the 20 years of the bonds because of the higher rates -- money he would much rather spend on his students. If Harmony had the financial guarantee of the state, Mr. Tarim estimates he would be able to spend an additional $600 to $700 on every student each year.
''That's a lot of money that we can actually use toward printing costs, laboratory equipment, etc.,'' he said. ''Otherwise, the interest rate goes to investors, it goes to Wall Street, out of state. That's the bottom line. If we have the P.S.F. guarantee, that money stays in Texas for Texas children.''
Harmony's struggle highlights the biggest hurdle for charter schools in Texas, advocates say: finding adequate facilities. Fledgling charter schools, like any other start-up business, have difficulty establishing credit. Because the schools must renew their charter with the state every five years, banks can view them as a risky investment, said Cinnamon Henley, executive director of the Austin Discovery School, a charter that opened in 2005.
Without access to financing for buying or building new facilities, charters are subject to the whims of the rental market, which can make budgetary planning difficult.
Some state lawmakers are pushing to change that with legislation allowing some charter schools to be eligible to access the Permanent School Fund.
Proceeds from several sources -- including revenue from taxes and offshore oil-drilling leases -- go into the $23 billion fund, which is managed by the State Board of Education. Interest from the fund feeds the Available School Fund, which helps pay for public school textbooks.
The proposal to expand access to the fund has prominent backers, including Senator Florence Shapiro, Republican of Plano and chairwoman of the Senate Education Committee, who introduced the legislation. Her House counterpart, Representative Rob Eissler, Republican of The Woodlands and chairman of the Public Education Committee, filed a companion bill last week.
Not everyone is on board: traditional school districts do not like the idea. The Texas Association of School Boards opposes opening the bond guarantee program to charters, Dax Gonzalez, a spokesman for the association, said, adding that charter schools are generally deemed to be poor credit risks.
''We've had around 280 charters awarded over the last few years,'' Mr. Gonzalez said. ''Out of those, 71 are no longer operating anymore. That's about a quarter of charters that have been abandoned or closed down. That doesn't show that they are going to be around for the state to recoup their investment.''
In fact, charter schools, many of them now defunct, currently owe the state $21 million -- some since 2001 -- mostly because of discrepancies in student enrollment figures.
Traditional districts and charters alike are financed through their estimates of enrollment at the beginning of the year. The state then adjusts the financing -- through a process called settle up -- for the number of students who actually attend. When a charter closes, the state may be unable to retrieve the money it has advanced the school.
Ms. Henley said some smaller charters cannot afford to hire specialized staff members to navigate the requirements of the Texas Education Agency, leaving charter operators adrift in a muddle of record keeping and state financing rules.
''If you have one person that does all your attendance reports, that's one salary divided by 200 students, so per student you are paying a lot for that person's salary,'' she said. ''If you are in a district and have 20,000 students and you have five or six people only doing that for the whole district, then you end up paying much less per student.''
David Dunn, director of the Texas Charter Schools Association, strongly believes that the proposed legislation is a ''win-win-win.'' Taxpayers and students benefit, Mr. Dunn said, because money is being spent on education rather than on paying interest -- and it comes at no cost to the state's general revenue fund budget.
Charter schools would be eligible only for their proportionate share of the fund, he said. Since they educate about 119,000 of the state's 4.8 million public school students, that works out to about 2.5 percent of the fund's capacity. And only the most reputable of the schools -- those that, on their own, could receive an investment-grade rating and demonstrate financial solvency and academic performance over time -- could get the fund's guarantee.
''This should not in any way be detrimental to traditional school districts,'' Mr. Dunn said, adding, ''There's really absolutely no reason for anyone to oppose this bill.''
The Texas Charter Schools Association now provides fiscal budget training for charter school staff members and new applicants to make sure they understand the business side of running a school. Before the association formed in 2008, there was never a support system for schools in place, Mr. Dunn said.
The support system, combined with a more rigorous evaluation of charter school applicants on the front end, he said, will help ensure that fewer schools find themselves owing the state money.
''When the problems do arise,'' Mr. Dunn said, ''we support the state coming in and closing down the school when they become fiscally insolvent.''
''It's an issue that will very much decline over time,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Austin Discovery School students. Charter schools like Austin often pay millions of dollars more in interest than public schools do.
 Austin Discovery students went outdoors for lessons on Tuesday. Some banks consider charter schools risky investments. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE MOAKLEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); LEGISLATION (84%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STARTUPS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (61%); MINERAL LEASES (60%); OIL & GAS LEASES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



518 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Independent Scholars: A Nomadic Lot

BYLINE: By KATHERINE WENTWORTH RINNE. 
E-mail: preoccupations@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN 1992, I quit my teaching job at the University of Arkansas, put everything into storage, cashed in my life savings -- a stupendous $10,000 -- and moved to Rome to begin the first phase of research for a project that has become my life's work. My money ran out nine months later, but by then the project had begun to take on a life of its own, and I had become an independent scholar.
The project is an online cartographic history of the urban development of Rome, focusing on how the city has been shaped by its water infrastructure for nearly 3,000 years. I thought that if I could help architecture, landscape and planning students to understand how water helped to define Rome, I might provide a model for looking at other cities. 
Why did I take this career turn? I felt an urgency about my project, and knew that as a full-time faculty member I wouldn't have time to focus on it until I was eligible for tenure in the distant future.
So now, having made the leap, I have become a member of an itinerant tribe in pursuit of ideas, knowledge and a place to write and do research. We are motivated and often well educated, and most of us work far longer than 40-hour weeks. Many of us could take high-five- or low- six-figure professional positions, even in today's economy, but we have chosen to forgo financial security for the freedom to pursue work we love.
As independent scholars, we often don't know where our next check will come from. We have waited tables, or answered phones for $7 an hour, or taken other temporary jobs just to have the freedom to do our own work. While others dream of new cars and exotic vacations, we dream of rent-controlled apartments and Guggenheim Fellowships.
This profession has a venerable history. In past centuries throughout Asia, the Middle East and Europe, talented scholars, musicians and artists actively sought out princely or imperial patrons, often living in their palaces and receiving a stipend for musical compositions, histories, poems, paintings or treatises.
Times have changed. Not many princes are looking for resident philosophers, poets or scholars these days. Funds now come from governments or foundations that may be seriously short on money. Scientists and mathematicians receive the largest amounts, while funds for arts and humanities work become scarcer each year.
Instead of living as palace guests, we take housemates, occupy garrets or sublets and do a lot of house-sitting, especially during the leanest times. We rely a great deal on our friends. We are often peripatetic. Over the last two decades, I have lived -- in chronological order -- in Rome; Los Angeles; Boston; Seattle; Rome again; Charlottesville, Va.; Boston again; Ames, Iowa; Rome again; Boston again; Washington; Rome again; Berkeley, Calif.; back to Rome, and again to Berkeley, where I have been for three years. It is my fervent hope that I will never have to move again.
Six of those years were funded, with residence in other cities a condition of acceptance. For five summers when I lacked funding, I returned to work at the generous invitation of my former employer, an architectural and urban design firm in Los Angeles. At other times, I have taught university classes. I have even been able to teach in Rome, where I can directly integrate my research into my architectural design studio and seminar teaching.
My situation is not that different from that of other independent scholars and writers. While a peripatetic life provides tantalizing material for the raconteur, it presents many challenges, including financial stability. Moving almost annually is exhausting and expensive, even though most of my belongings were in storage until my last move to Berkeley.
Health insurance is often only a dream, and the wildly fluctuating income can be nerve-racking and depressing. In unfunded years, I have earned as little as $8,000 to $10,000 in pretax dollars. In funded years, I have made $13,000 to $80,000. Needless to say, financial planning is hard, and building equity nearly impossible.
Nonetheless, I have developed a strategy that allows a modicum of stability. I live lightly. I still wear the good clothes that I bought when I had a ''real'' job many years ago. I have been fortunate to house-sit for, or live with, many of my friends, sometimes for months on end. In exchange, I baby-sit, care for pets or clean up after an earthquake. My gardening services are in particular demand.
At my nadir, I sold all my stocks and bonds, yet I have added to my I.R.A. each year, even if it's only $500, not $5,000.
Enormous and far from complete, my project has taken over my professional life. But, finally, after years of research and writing, my first book, ''The Waters of Rome: Aqueducts, Fountains, and the Birth of the Baroque City,'' has been published by Yale University Press.
Had I known at the beginning what I'd have to endure to reach this point, I doubt that I would have had the courage to plunge ahead. Fortunately, I was utterly oblivious of the consequences.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katherine Rinne, an independent scholar, in Rome, where a marker from 1495 noted a Tiber River flood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICIA JESSEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (85%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PAINTING (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); POETRY (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); WRITERS (66%); RENT CONTROL (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); MUSIC (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ROME, ITALY (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); ASIA (74%); MIDDLE EAST (74%); EUROPE (69%)

TITLE: Waters of Rome, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



519 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Can Both Sides Win?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
N. Gregory Mankiw decries President Obama's ''win the future'' rallying cry as a misleading diversion from the true nature of our policy choices (''Emerging Markets as Partners, Not Rivals,'' Economic View, Feb. 13). 
According to the column, everyone benefits from our current situation: we gain a ''consumer surplus'' when we buy commodities and services at a price below their value to us, while our trading neighbor gains a ''producer surplus.''
The problem, however, was explained elsewhere in your section, in ''When Factories Vanish, So Can Innovators'' (Everybody's Business). When we stop producing, we lose not only manufacturing jobs but maybe also the innovation they stimulated.
In addition, if one party consistently gains a consumer surplus (always buys) and the other gains a producer surplus (always sells), how will the buyer gain the income to keep making purchases? In other words, gains from trade can't be so one-sided.
It makes sense that the president would use the catch phrase. How else to wake a sleeping giant and rally the public around initiatives to promote exports, especially of American-made renewable energy products?
So let's compete on the economic field of play, honor ourselves and our competitors and then embrace the benefits of trade just as our gridiron heroes embraced one another after the Super Bowl.
David Newman
Nyack, N.Y., Feb. 13
The writer, a lawyer, specializes in international trade.
To the Editor:
Professor Mankiw's column was faithful to economists' conventional view that unrestrained trade inevitably benefits both trading partners. But if it is correct that free trade helps our country, it's only fair that more should be done to compensate the workers and communities that have been destroyed as a result of the avalanche of products from China and elsewhere.
These measures should include more generous retraining and relocation aid, as well as job-loss insurance for those sidelined by imports. Currently, the inability of unemployed workers to sell their homes also impedes the effective functioning of the labor market -- and the federal government should deal with this problem, too.
Ralph Deeds
Birmingham, Mich., Feb. 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



520 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; THE BOTTOM LINE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: As the Election Looms, Candidates Skirt City's Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS. 
dmihalopoulos@chicago newscoop.org

 BODY:
When voters go to the polls Tuesday to pick Chicago's first new mayor since the 1980s, they can reflect on a lively campaign that featured topics ranging from education and crime to whether one of the mayoral hopefuls had smoked crack.
But one issue dwarfs all the others: Like most local and state governments, City Hall is facing a gaping budget deficit with few prospects for new revenue streams in the near future.
In responses to the Chicago News Cooperative's questionnaires and in interviews (which are posted at chicagonewscoop.org), candidates offered long lists of plans for bridging the city's financial problems. But none of the would-be successors to Mayor Richard M. Daley have spelled out precisely how they would deal with the most expensive quandary: pensions that city employees have been promised.
Rahm Emanuel, the front-runner in polls, argued that he had been the most forthright in acknowledging the extent of the problem. But when pressed to detail what he would propose as mayor, he said he would not detail his position publicly before bargaining with employee union representatives, and did little more than underscore what most experts already know. 
''If you keep postponing, hoping it will fix itself, the price of preserving it gets more expensive,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''You are not going to grow your way out of this or invest your way out of this.''
Gery Chico and the other mayoral candidates were similarly vague. Rather than outlining a plan to change the pension system, Mr. Chico emphasized his experience negotiating with labor leaders and fashioning budgets as city school board president and mayoral chief of staff.
''This will be an enormous issue that will require tough decisions by all parties,'' Mr. Chico said in his questionnaire. ''There is a shared pain in any solution, but based on my history, I am confident we will be able to reach a consensus that is fair for all parties.''
The candidates' reluctance to address the issue directly is no doubt due to the lack of an obvious, politically palatable answer.
The city's budget deficits, which grew to $655 million for 2011, are expected to continue and do not include the estimated $363 million that taxpayers would have to contribute each year for the next 50 years to adequately fund employee pension plans, according to a report last year by a mayoral panel. And that tab would be even higher if not for sharp cuts in pension payments for current employees as well as for new hires.
There are more than 35,000 city workers, and they are thought to turn out at the polls more readily than other Chicagoans, forming a significant bloc of votes. Yet, it appears difficult to balance the books definitively without affecting the cost of their wages and benefits. Personnel costs represent 60 percent of the city's annual budget of more than $6 billion, while 90 percent of the payroll is represented by unions.
Chicago labor leaders say Mr. Emanuel told them in a closed-door meeting in December that he favored cutting pensions for current employees as well as for new hires. Unhappy with that possibility, the labor organizations representing most employees, including the unions for police, firefighters and garbage crews, endorsed Mr. Chico.
A nationally renowned Democratic strategist, Mr. Emanuel is certainly aware that the tough economic times have left many voters here, and across the country, particularly displeased with the possibility of paying higher taxes to help finance the salaries and pensions of public workers. Mr. Emanuel seemed to try to capitalize on that mindset in a campaign TV ad in which he said that City Hall ''is not an employment agency'' and that all city workers should know ''they are actually a public servant.''
At the same time, Mr. Emanuel is mindful of the longstanding influence of organized labor in Illinois politics, and he has blanched at rivals' efforts to portray him as an anti-union politician in the mold of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and others who have moved to slash employee costs. Mr. Emanuel has gone out of his way recently to assert that he is not trying to get elected on the backs of city workers.
After his TV commercial generated a fierce backlash from union leaders, Mr. Emanuel said that as mayor he would not ask city workers to continue taking furlough days, a contract concession that has amounted to a 9 percent pay cut for most employees.
Putting off confronting the pension problem could result in no pensions at all for employees, said Mr. Emanuel, who was White House chief of staff until shortly after Mayor Daley announced in September that he would retire this year. He said the only way to solve the issue was to ''start to level with each other and not play politics about it.''
Mr. Chico offered only one specific suggestion in his questionnaire response, saying, ''Even labor has acknowledged that they must increase contributions.''
Carol Moseley Braun said her mayoral campaign had lacked the time and money to devise a plan for grappling with underfinanced employee pensions.
''We just got started three months ago,'' Ms. Braun said. ''We have limited resources to develop these kinds of plans and put them out there. I would expect, as part of transition, to bring in the best minds I can find, to get these people to talk to one another to help develop these plans.''
Ms. Braun, a former United States senator, added that she would be hesitant to reduce pensions for current as well as new workers. ''We have a moral obligation to see to it that the people who are already in the system do not get their retirement security blown up or diminished,'' she said.
Miguel del Valle, the city clerk, said he would not support reducing pension benefits of current employees, but he backed increasing employee contributions and delaying the retirement age for new hires.
Patricia Van Pelt-Watkins, a community activist and political neophyte, was no more specific about how to help finance pensions than her better-known rivals. ''I do not support reducing benefits for current employees,'' she said. ''The city must do its part to identify and provide stable revenue streams to fund their current and future pension obligations.''
As for the budget deficit, Mr. Emanuel's campaign recently released a list of plans that he said would save $500 million. Among the items were saving $110 million through an effort to ''streamline bureaucracy'' and trimming as much as $65 million through changes in the garbage-collection system.
''It was the most detailed speech to date not just in this campaign, I would say in other campaigns, pre-election, that goes through line by line and says how you can achieve balance,'' Mr. Emanuel said in an interview.
Mr. Chico's campaign released a list of proposed cost-cutting measures and said, ''We have some of our own internal numbers,'' but Mr. Chico said he would not release those figures publicly because they were estimates. He mocked Mr. Emanuel's $500 million platform, saying it was impossible to make thorough calculations until taking office.
''If somebody came in to me with some of this kind of numbers, I would have to fire him,'' Mr. Chico said. ''Putting a budget together is an art, not science.''
Ms. Braun's proposals include generating $100 million by increasing fines on owners of abandoned or neglected properties. When it was suggested that the owners of such properties may lack money for upkeep, much less to pay higher fines, she said, ''Even if we collected only half of it, it would go a long way.''
Only Mr. del Valle readily conceded that his proposals to cut costs would be insufficient to deal with the shortfall.
After discussing budget ideas like cutting middle management and eliminating half of the mayoral public relations aide positions, Mr. del Valle said, ''Does that get us to $650 million? Not right now. But once you get in there, you're going to have to find $650 million.''
THE BOTTOM LINE: This is the second in a series of articles looking at city budget pressures facing the next mayor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GERY CHICO
RAHM EMANUEL
CAROL MOSELEY BRAUN
PATRICIA VAN PELT-WATKINS
 MIGUEL DEL VALLE (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); COCAINE (57%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



521 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Can Both Sides Win?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
N. Gregory Mankiw decries President Obama's ''win the future'' rallying cry as a misleading diversion from the true nature of our policy choices (''Emerging Markets as Partners, Not Rivals,'' Economic View, Feb. 13). 
According to the column, everyone benefits from our current situation: we gain a ''consumer surplus'' when we buy commodities and services at a price below their value to us, while our trading neighbor gains a ''producer surplus.''
The problem, however, was explained elsewhere in your section, in ''When Factories Vanish, So Can Innovators'' (Everybody's Business). When we stop producing, we lose not only manufacturing jobs but maybe also the innovation they stimulated.
In addition, if one party consistently gains a consumer surplus (always buys) and the other gains a producer surplus (always sells), how will the buyer gain the income to keep making purchases? In other words, gains from trade can't be so one-sided.
It makes sense that the president would use the catch phrase. How else to wake a sleeping giant and rally the public around initiatives to promote exports, especially of American-made renewable energy products?
So let's compete on the economic field of play, honor ourselves and our competitors and then embrace the benefits of trade just as our gridiron heroes embraced one another after the Super Bowl. David Newman
Nyack, N.Y., Feb. 13
The writer, a lawyer, specializes in international trade.
To the Editor:
Professor Mankiw's column was faithful to economists' conventional view that unrestrained trade inevitably benefits both trading partners. But if it is correct that free trade helps our country, it's only fair that more should be done to compensate the workers and communities that have been destroyed as a result of the avalanche of products from China and elsewhere.
These measures should include more generous retraining and relocation aid, as well as job-loss insurance for those sidelined by imports. Currently, the inability of unemployed workers to sell their homes also impedes the effective functioning of the labor market -- and the federal government should deal with this problem, too. Ralph Deeds
Birmingham, Mich., Feb. 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



522 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; SPRING PERFORMANCE: MUSIC; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Metal, Electronica, Country and Jazz Are All on Tour

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
POP music festivals in 2011 face the same challenge as always: branding new dishes from the communal stew of touring bands. But through social media the tastemaking classes keep expanding, along with every alternative subculture; the festivals, in turn, keep swelling and diversifying, despite the economy.
The Ultra Music Festival, in Miami, has grown to three days (from two) of electronic dance beats. This year's edition, March 25 to 27, at Bicentennial Park, encompasses the mainstream names in trance and house -- Tiesto, David Guetta and the ubiquitous Will.i.am -- as well as weird dubstep hybrids like Rusko, and live bands, including Holy Ghost!, from New York, and, gulp, Duran Duran. 
As for metal: Scion Rockfest, the excellent one-day free festival on March 5 in Pomona, Calif., is a done deal. All tickets are claimed. But the longer-running Maryland Deathfest, at Club Sonar in Baltimore, presents a similar collection of underground metal subgenres, in one club across four days, May 26 to 29.
The Coachella Valley Music & Arts Festival takes place April 15 to 17 at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. Twelve years in, it's the major outdoor crucible of the mainstream alternative. Curious fact: An unusually large number of the bands in 2011 have had a Billboard Top 10 album over the last two years -- Kanye West, Kings of Leon, Arcade Fire, the Black Keys, Mumford and Sons and the National.
But the same goes for Bonnaroo, June 9 to 12, in Manchester, Tenn. Once it was jam-band central, the festival of pale, matted locks. But this year's Bonnaroo, besides delivering your Widespread Panic, your String Cheese Incident, your Primus, half duplicates the headline acts of Coachella; it also wades into hip-hop (Eminem) and Eurodisco (Robyn) and metal (Opeth); and it brings the closest thing to reunion news --a show by the late-'60s Los Angeles band Buffalo Springfield, with Richie Furay, Stephen Stills and Neil Young.
Back at the Empire Polo Club, on April 23, in their (so far) only United States appearance together, come the Big Four -- Metallica, Slayer, Megadeth and Anthrax, the winner's circle of mid-'80s thrash-metal bands. And the week after that, in a nice bit of dissonance, comes Stagecoach, the mostly mainstream country festival, with Carrie Underwood, Darius Rucker, Rascal Flatts and Kenny Chesney. Those who find Stagecoach a brassy vulgarity will dig Merlefest, April 28 to May 1, on the campus of Wilkes Community College in Wilkesboro, N.C.: four days of bluegrass and the Anglo-American acoustic roots-music continuum, including Robert Plant and the Band of Joy, Sarah Jarosz, Lyle Lovett, the Wailin' Jennys and Del McCoury.
In the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival, across two weekends from April 29 to May 8, taste goes crazy. You can't connect the dots; you just gorge. There are treats for older heads: Willie Nelson, Lucinda Williams, Maze. There are younger acts: Lupe Fiasco, Arcade Fire. Then there's Kenny G. There are indeed a few big names in what we all would call jazz: Sonny Rollins, Ahmad Jamal. And then there are the reasons you travel long distances for live music: the intensities of the brass and Mardi Gras Indian bands, the gospel tent, and -- special this year -- a huge amount of Haitian music, including Tabou Combo, Boukman Eksperyans, RAM and Emeline Michel.
We end in a parking lot, as always. The Bamboozle sets up April 29 to May 1, on the asphalt around the Meadowlands complex, in East Rutherford, N.J. These are long days in the sun for American teenage boys and their youngish dads: Bruno Mars, Lil Wayne, Wiz Khalifa, Attack! Attack!, LMFAO, pop, rap, metalcore, ska, electropop, sneakers, water, coffee, aspirin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fans at the 2010 Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival in Manchester, Tenn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%)

PERSON: KANYE WEST (58%); KENNY CHESNEY (58%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



523 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: AS HOUSE PASSES BIG BUDGET CUTS, STANDOFF LOOMS

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House vote Saturday to slash more than $60 billion from the federal budget shows how powerfully the anti-spending fervor of the fall elections is driving the new Republican majority's efforts to shrink government. It puts the two parties on a path to a succession of showdowns over the deficit and the nation's growing debt.
The House bill would impose sharp spending reductions over the next seven months in nearly every area of government, including domestic programs, foreign aid and even some military projects. In recent days, the spending fight was made all the more bitter by long-simmering political feuds over health care, energy, social policy and a fundamental divide over the proper role of government.
The vote, 235 to 189, was a victory for the large, boisterous class of fiscally conservative Republican freshmen that is fiercely determined to change the ways of Washington and that forced party leaders to undertake far bigger cuts than originally planned. 
With Congress on a weeklong Presidents' Day recess, lawmakers will return with just four days to agree on a temporary extension of the stopgap measure now financing the government.
The Democratic-controlled Senate has signaled that it will not consider anything approaching the scale of cuts approved by the House, setting up a standoff that each side has warned could lead to a shutdown of the federal government early next month.
Saturday's predawn vote was also the opening salvo in what is likely to be a long, bitter clash of philosophical ideas about fiscal policy on Capitol Hill, in statehouses around the country and in the 2012 presidential campaign, as Republicans repudiate the Keynesian strategies the Obama administration has relied on to navigate through the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.
Republicans seemed to grow more excited as the final vote neared shortly after 4:30 a.m. ''We have a mandate from the American people to cut spending,'' declared Representative Judy Biggert of Illinois.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner quickly criticized the House package, saying it would ''undermine and damage our capacity to create jobs and expand the economy'' at a time when unemployment remains high. Mr. Geithner, in Paris for a Group of 20 meeting of the world's largest economies, said the administration was ''confident that the Democrats and Republicans are going to come together on a program not just to reduce spending, but to reduce our long-term deficits.''
The White House had threatened to veto the bill even before it was approved.
In Washington, the fight in the weeks ahead will focus on paying for government operations through the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, and the need within the next few months to raise the federal debt ceiling. But the push by Republicans for spending cuts and new austerity is already shaking state capitals, including Madison, Wis., and Columbus, Ohio, where labor unions have begun protesting efforts to reduce benefits and weaken their collective bargaining rights.
The House approved its spending measure after four days and nights of freewheeling floor debate -- a veritable ultramarathon of legislating in which hundreds of amendments were put forward. Republican leaders lost votes on some amendments, in what they said was a testament to their commitment to allow a more open legislative process than their recent predecessors.
Immediately after the vote, the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, said in a statement, ''This week, for the first time in many years, the people's House was allowed to work its will -- and the result was one of the largest spending cuts in American history.'' Mr. Boehner added, ''We will not stop here in our efforts to cut spending, not when we're broke and Washington's spending binge is making it harder to create jobs.''
Just three Republicans opposed the bill, while all 186 Democrats present voted against it. The Republican opponents were Representatives John Campbell of California and Jeff Flake of Arizona, both of whom had advocated for even bigger reductions, and Representative Walter B. Jones of North Carolina, who often disagrees with his party.
Senate Democrats said they were willing to negotiate spending cuts for the balance of the fiscal year. ''Democrats believe we should make smart cuts -- cuts that target waste and excess, not slash the programs that keep us safe and keep the economy growing,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in a statement after the vote.
The stopgap measure now financing the government expires on March 4. And with Congress in recess, party leaders concede that there is not enough time to forge a deal and that a short-term extension will be needed to avert a shutdown of the government.
But with the tone in the House growing more strident over the four days of debate, and politically charged amendments dominating the action on Friday, lawmakers and Washington at large have begun to face the possibility that even a temporary accord will be difficult to achieve.
Mr. Boehner has said he would not agree to a short-term extension without cutting spending below where it is now, generally at 2010 levels. Democrats, meanwhile, have not shown any willingness to give ground, apparently betting that Republicans will be held responsible for a shutdown as they were in 1995 in a standoff with the Clinton administration.
The House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, late Friday night put forward a temporary extension of the stopgap measure that would maintain current spending levels and avert a shutdown through March 31. But Republicans quickly dismissed it.
''Closing our government would mean our men and women in uniform wouldn't receive their paychecks and veterans would lose critical benefits,'' Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference Friday. ''Seniors wouldn't receive their Social Security checks, and essential functions from food safety inspection to airport security could come to a halt.''
Aides to the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, sought to play down the possibility of a stalemate that would shutter the government but accused Democrats of rooting for that outcome.
Mr. McConnell, however, showed no willingness to consider Ms. Pelosi's proposed temporary extension. ''Freezing in place the current unsustainable spending levels is simply unacceptable,'' he said in a statement.
Even without a government shutdown, there were warnings that the Republican cuts could hobble federal agencies. The Securities and Exchange Commission, for instance, charged with carrying out a sweeping new financial regulation law, will end up with $25 million less than last year, which was before the law was adopted.
In a letter to employees on Thursday, the Social Security Administration warned of potential furloughs ''given the potential of reduced Congressional appropriations for the remainder of the fiscal year.''
The cuts even hit some programs that had support among Republican leaders, including an alternate engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. The House voted to cancel the engine, achieving $450 million in short-term savings.
Up to the end, the Republican Study Committee, a conservative bloc, continued to push for even bigger cuts, putting forward an amendment on Friday to slice $22 billion more. That amendment was defeated, as senior Republicans, including the majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, and veteran members of the Appropriations Committee, teamed with Democrats to hit the brakes.
But flush with enthusiasm on the fourth long day of debate, House Republicans on Friday easily approved amendments to the spending package that would deny government financing for Planned Parenthood, block money for the Democrats' health care overhaul and ban new regulation of certain greenhouse gases.
The amendment to deny government funds to Planned Parenthood was put forward by Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, who called it a victory for abortion opponents. Ms. Pelosi, a supporter of abortion rights, angrily denounced the vote as a camouflaged effort by Republicans to prevent Americans from engaging in family planning, which she said would actually undermine the Republicans' larger goal by leading to an increase in elective abortions.
''Perhaps we have to have a lesson in the birds and the bees around here for them to understand that,'' Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference. At least six amendments were approved to block federal agencies from carrying out the new health care law or crucial components of the law.
For Republican freshmen, however, the health care law offers a potentially sobering lesson about American democracy: after countless hours of drafting and floor debate, the health care bill Mr. Obama signed last year was the one written and approved by the Senate. In much the same way, the spending measure being debated so feverishly on the House floor has virtually no chance of becoming the law.
The Senate will also control crucial negotiations in the current spending fight. Senate Republicans have said they support the overall goals of their House counterparts but have not committed to making identical cuts, and Democrats have a majority in the chamber.
In an understated reminder of his chamber's role in the process, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii and chairman of the Appropriations Committee, issued a statement expressing a desire for compromise.
''It is my sincere hope that all the parties will remain reasonable as we seek to fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year,'' he said. ''Neither house of Congress is in a position to dictate terms to the other, so I remain hopeful that we will come to a sensible accommodation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With debate over a spending bill continuing into the night Friday, lawmakers and aides carried their work into the Capitol's halls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); JOB CREATION (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JUDY BIGGERT (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



524 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: The Unemployed Need Not Apply

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve is projecting unemployment to continue at or near 9 percent for the rest of the year. That is 13.9 million Americans out of work. Here is more grim news: Barriers to employment for jobless workers may be even higher than previously thought. 
As the Fed updated its forecast last week, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission held a forum on discrimination against unemployed job seekers. Members of Congress had urged the commission to explore the issue, after reading press reports of numerous instances in which employers and staffing agencies refused to consider the unemployed for openings.
The message -- ''the unemployed need not apply'' -- has at times been explicitly stated in job announcements. In other cases, unemployed job seekers have reported verbal rejections after a recruiter or employer learned they were not currently working.
One of the questions for the E.E.O.C. is whether excluding unemployed applicants is illegal. Jobless workers are not specifically protected by antidiscrimination laws, but various laws outlaw hiring bias on the basis of sex, race, national origin, religion, age and disability. Since African-Americans, older workers -- especially older women -- and disabled workers have been hit particularly hard in the downturn, discriminating against unemployed people in those groups may violate the law.
Take African-American workers. They make up 12 percent of the work force, but 20 percent of the unemployed. Even college-educated black Americans are far more likely than their white peers to be unemployed.
Another question for the E.E.O.C. is whether it is acceptable for employers to use current employment as a proxy for relevant experience, or as an expedient to screen applicants. Testimony at the forum by Helen Norton, associate professor at the University of Colorado Law School, rebutted those and other possible justifications. Current employment is not relevant to jobs that provide on-the-job training. And even for jobs that require up-to-date skills, an interview or a test would be a more accurate and less discriminatory way to evaluate a candidate's qualifications.
Simply excluding unemployed workers also excludes candidates who may have been employed until recently as well as those who have used a period of unemployment to receive additional training or education.
The E.E.O.C. deserves credit for taking on the issue. As it studies the situation, it should make clear to employers that discriminating against the jobless could be illegal. As Ms. Norton rightly noted in her testimony, the law must seek ''to ensure that access to job opportunities is free from discrimination in tough economic times as well as good.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); RELIGION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



525 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: A Monopoly on Cheating

BYLINE: By SAM LIPSYTE. 
Sam Lipsyte is the author, most recently, of ''The Ask.''

 BODY:
I HATE cheats. They cut the line and snatch the bargain. They sweet-talk the customer service rep into bending the rules. They count cards and win the raffle with some sneaky ticket placement. They are the 100th caller every time. They trick you on mileage or square footage and bribe their way up the organ transplant list. They pump and dump their stocks, their families, their friends. They get ahead and they win. We lose. Then they explain ever so condescendingly that it's not a zero-sum game.
I never cheated much as a child, not on tests or papers, not at Go Fish or poker or even board games like Sorry or Risk. It's been the same since. I pay my taxes, under-claim expenses, give mistaken change back to the cashier. I don't lie on applications. I'd probably fill out my own death warrant with civic-minded meticulousness. 
I'm not bragging. I find this part of me repellent. I'm not noble or good. I'm adult enough to know that the victories of cheats don't feel hollow to them. They live happy lives. They don't think they are cheats. They consider themselves warriors of life.
The fact is, I don't cheat because I'm scared of getting caught, and I will be caught, because my fear will give me away.
You have to hand it to cheats. They have drive and nerve, though their ends tend toward the nefarious. Many great fortunes, from those of the robber barons to those of the robber geeks, bear some taint, an original murk, land wheedled here, software appropriated there. The upright schmoes just stood around, bewildered, fleeced.
We often claim otherwise, but cheating helped build the wealth of this country. That and murder, slavery and outright theft, of course, but the subject here is cheating. Our capitalist system has always harbored cheats, catapulted them through loopholes into riches and glory. The country has paid dearly for it. Predatory loan, anyone?
Still, I was raised to believe that America was the one place you didn't have to cheat. Hard work alone would deliver you. I think I learned this from a filmstrip at school. Boy, was that filmstrip wrong, and now it seems that Hasbro, the board game manufacturer, agrees.
The company has unveiled a new version of Monopoly, that Depression-era invention that along with screwball comedies made Americans in the 1930s think they might one day laugh non-psychotically and own property again. Monopoly Live has done away with dice, as well as the Chance and Community Chest Cards. Instead, standing in the center of the board is an ominous infrared tower that speaks to players like some regulatory Yahweh, keeping track of their money and making sure they move the right spaces and stick to the rules. No more Uncle Wilbur demanding to be banker so he can slip some bright bills under the board for later. No more illegal renting or avoidance of the auction rules.
Actually, with the dark ziggurat running the show, nobody has to worry about even knowing the rules: ''Getting rid of the instruction book encourages a lot more face-to-face interaction,'' Jane Ritson-Parsons, the global brand leader for Monopoly, told The Times earlier this week. ''If you're not having to read as much, you are all chatting more.''
The same holds true, I gather, for the Constitution, your lease or your employment contract. Forget the fine print: chat!
The tower of power also has ways of speeding up the game, or throwing random curveballs, like a hastily announced horse race upon which everyone must bet. No plans for a terrorist attack or market crash have been mentioned so far, but those could certainly add urgency and excitement to the game.
Most important, however, is that the tower prevents cheating; indeed, its mandate to monitor transactions and investigate irregularities seems to be going the distances the Obama administration has only gestured toward. People will differ on the consequences of this for our 8- to 12-year-olds, to whom the new game is pitched. It might instill good citizenship, but some experts believe it will stifle the creativity and socializing so necessary in our chatty era. Chiseling your family and friends trains you for the real world.
But even if the game really does prevent cheating, it also might inadvertently reveal the Big Cheat, the entire matrix of money and land and development and investment that's already locked down, and show the overwhelming majority of young players how they will never share a board with the ultra-elites. Why have Chance cards, after all, when each one would have to read: ''Congratulations, you belong to the half of 1 percent of the population that owns most of the wealth!''
So maybe I love cheats -- cheats who are doing it for the common good, who are flouting the rules that bind us to an unfair system. That's why I can't wait to play the new version of the game with my own children: Monopoly Live might just prove a wonderful incubator of little resisters to the stale and broken ideas we keep trotting out about our level American playing field of dreams.
The truth is that most children follow rules if they are fair. Kids like order, or structure, as long as it's not oppressive. But they can sniff out the fix, the rigged game, better than many political scientists and economists. Look at how the young people in Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries have managed to call their despots' bluffs.
However friendly and interactive that Monopoly tower might seem, maybe our own kids will work together to do an end run around the authoritarian monolith in the center of their world. And after they've torn down that huge plastic hegemon, they can all pass Go and head to the kitchen for equal shares of oatmeal cookies.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); FAMILY (76%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); PREDATORY LENDING (69%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



526 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; SPRING PERFORMANCE: MUSIC; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: At Tully Hall, the Norm Is a Festival

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
AT a time that advance ticket sales and season subscriptions have plunged because of economic concerns, arts presenters everywhere have turned to special events as a means to drum up excitement and shore up the bottom line. But now that celebrations are everywhere, how can any institution hope to compete? With Tully Scope, a monthlong series that starts on Tuesday, Lincoln Center proposes a novel solution: When festivals are the norm, why not make the norm a festival? 
Compared with the White Light Festival last fall -- which united disparate events under the umbrella of spirituality, a topic subject to interpretation and debate -- Tully Scope could hardly be plainer in its objective. This series of 14 concerts is meant to celebrate the diversity typically offered at the renovated Alice Tully Hall: early-music concerts, piano and vocal recitals, contemporary-classical performances and so on.
True, such events also happened at Tully long before the hall's radical face-lift made it a more enticing place to be. But if luring traffic to the door is a concern, the outstanding array of performances lumped together under the Tully Scope banner is tough to beat.
Opening the series on Tuesday is the International Contemporary Ensemble, an exuberantly innovative new-music group, which played a major role in the Lincoln Center Festival last summer with a concert at Tully. Here the ensemble tips its collective hat to the night in 1950 when John Cage and Morton Feldman bonded over a Webern performance by the New York Philharmonic -- at Carnegie Hall, but why split hairs? -- in a program featuring pieces by all three composers, with Iannis Xenakis added for good measure.
Choosing highlights among the remaining performances is a challenge for the best possible reason: from Axiom playing more Feldman on Thursday through concerts by Tyondai Braxton (March 7), Les Arts Florissants (March 11-12), Jordi Savall (March 14) and Heiner Goebbels (March 18), each Tully Scope event is in fact a highlight.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 2009 performance at the grand foyer of the Alice Tully Hall, which will host the festival Tully Scope, a series of 14 concerts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



527 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Cycle of Suppression Rises In Libya and Other Nations

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID; Reporting was contributed by Mona El-Naggar and David D. Kirkpatrick from Cairo, Nada Bakri from Beirut, Adam Nossiter from Algiers, Laura Kasinof from Sana, Yemen, Jack Healy from Baghdad, Thomas Fuller from Tunis and John Markoff from San Francisco.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Libyan security forces moved against protesters Saturday in Benghazi, the country's second-largest city and the epicenter of the most serious challenge to four decades of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's rule, opposition leaders and residents said. The death toll rose to at least 104 people, most of them in Benghazi, Human Rights Watch reported.
The events appeared to mark a decisive turn in four days of protests that have shaken Libya, a North African nation rich in oil. By nightfall, a deadly cycle had clearly emerged in a city where thousands have gathered in antigovernment demonstrations: Security forces fired on funeral marches, killing more protesters, creating more funerals.
The scope of the crackdown was almost impossible to verify in an isolated country that remains largely off limits to foreign journalists and, as part of the government's efforts to squelch the protests, has been periodically cut off from the Internet. But doctors reached by Al Jazeera, an Arabic satellite channel, said dozens and perhaps hundreds were killed and wounded in the fighting, which persisted into the night. And a Benghazi resident who visited the hospital said by e-mail that 200 were dead and nearly 850 wounded; if confirmed, that would substantially raise the death toll by Human Rights Watch, which reported at least 20 people killed Saturday. 
''It is too late for dialogue now,'' said a Benghazi resident who has taken part in the demonstrations but refused to be named. ''Too much blood has been shed. The more brutal the crackdown will be, the more determined the protesters will become.''
''We don't trust the regime anymore,'' he said in a phone interview.
The government response in Libya underlined an unintended consequence of the success of uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt, where protests pouring into the streets day after day forced the departure of long-serving authoritarian leaders. In Libya, Yemen and Algeria, the governments have quickly resorted to violence to crush unrest before it gathers momentum that might threaten their grip on power.
A day of antigovernment marches in Yemen, the Arab world's poorest country, took a violent turn as government supporters opened fire on a group opposing the 31-year rule of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, wounding at least four people. And hundreds of police officers in the Algerian capital, Algiers, used clubs to overwhelm antigovernment demonstrators.
The crackdown in Libya has proven the bloodiest of the recent government actions, drawing criticism from the United States and European allies.
In London, Foreign Minister William Hague said he had reports that heavy weapons fire and sniper units were being used against protests, organized in a half-dozen cities or more. ''This is clearly unacceptable and horrifying,'' he said in a statement.
Earlier in the day, thousands had returned to the courthouse in Benghazi. Idris Ahmed al-Agha, a Libyan writer reached by telephone, said the crowd had grown to more than 20,000 by midday -- an account confirmed by others -- with many of the people there planning to take part in funeral marches to bury dozens of people killed a day before.
Opposition Web sites reported that security forces later fired on some of the mourners. One site, Al Manara, said snipers fired from an army base that sits on the route to the cemetery, and a video posted on a Facebook page that has compiled images from the protests showed a march coming under fire, with at least one man shot in the head. Doctors have said that most of the dead have suffered gunshots.
''It seems that security forces in Libya do not feel there are limits on how far they can go in suppressing protests,'' said Heba Morayef, a researcher for Human Rights Watch in Cairo who has been in contact with residents and doctors in Benghazi.
The government has viewed the situation in Benghazi as so precarious that Colonel Qaddafi sent his son, Saadi, to the eastern Libyan city last week in an attempt to mollify resentment, residents said. In a speech Wednesday, the son promised reform, but his overtures were seen as condescending, several said. His whereabouts were unclear on Saturday, with some saying he was holed up in a hotel in the city, where Colonel Qaddafi's hold on power is not as strong as in the capital, Tripoli, in the west.
In Benghazi, protesters have echoed a chant heard in Tunisia, then picked up by protesters in Egypt: ''The people want to topple the regime.''
One of the region's wealthier countries, Libya has been spared the economic grievances that offered a cadence to protests against President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Nor does Colonel Qaddafi seem to generate the loathing that President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali did in Tunisia. Though his rule has proven idiosyncratic and eccentric, he has a luxury not afforded neighboring Egypt: vast oil revenues and a small population.
But political grievances in places like Benghazi have deepened with the crackdown. Some accuse the state of deploying special forces and foreign mercenaries unable to speak Arabic to crush the protests, and the bloodshed -- much of it inflicted on funeral marches -- seems to have struck a chord of anger.
''They're not going to go back to their homes,'' said Issa Abed al-Majid Mansour, an exiled opposition leader in Oslo. ''If they do, he'll finish them off. They know the regime very well. There's no to way to go back now. Never, never.''
The Libyan crackdown comes amid one of the most tumultuous moments in the Arab world in recent memory, with two longtime leaders falling in as many months and a series of Arab states facing defiant calls for change.
In the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq, saved from much of the devastation visited on the rest of the country during the American-led war, a demonstration ended with gunfire for the second time in less than a week. Gunmen wearing civilian clothes fired on a group of students from the University of Sulaimaniya, wounding 12 people. Hundreds of students chanting antigovernment slogans had gathered on Saturday to demand the government apologize for the bloodshed at the earlier demonstration. The original protests were against local leaders in the semiautonomous area and echoed complaints across the region over the excessive power of long-ruling parties and corruption.
About 1,000 protesters demanding Mr. Saleh's ouster in Yemen gathered for another day in Sana, squaring off against government supporters. Some protesters shouted, ''Be peaceful!'' but the calls were drowned out as the two sides hurled bottles, rocks and shoes at each other. Government supporters fired at protesters; one man, his chest bloodied, was carried away.
In Algiers, hundreds of baton-wielding police officers pushed back demonstrators, breaking up an antigovernment protest in the downtown. Thousands paraded peacefully through Tunis to demand the country adhere to secular traditions, in one of the largest protests since Mr. Ben Ali's fall in January; since his ouster, many exiled Islamists have returned to the country, apparently raising concerns that that they would push for religion to play a greater role in politics. The government there also signed an amnesty decree that would free prisoners convicted on grounds of politics, security or activism.
The military government in Egypt took more steps toward a handover of power. State television reported that that within six months, the government would end the so-called emergency law which, for 30 years, has allowed detentions without charges or trial. The judge heading the effort to draft constitutional amendments said his panel might produce recommendations as early as Sunday, for a referendum in the coming weeks. And the government recognized the first new political party formed since the revolution, a moderate Islamist group that has sought recognition for 15 years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A government supporter was hit with a police baton at a demonstration on Saturday in Algiers. MAP: About 20,000 protesters were said to be in Benghazi, Libya. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); JOURNALISM (71%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); ALGERIA (93%); LEBANON (92%); YEMEN (92%); TUNISIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



528 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC: CLASSICAL RECORDINGS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: The Antique, Strings And Georgian Film

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
BEN JOHNSTON: STRING QUARTETS NOS. 1, 5, 10
Kepler Quartet. New World Records 80693-2; CD.
NO composition or body of work is so utterly forbidding that a sympathetic interpreter can't make a solid case for it. Consider the contemporary string quartet: The Pacifica Quartet made Elliott Carter's fierce pieces sing, and won a Grammy Award in the process, in 2009. A week ago the Parker Quartet accomplished the same feat with a disc devoted to Gyorgy Ligeti. 
To considerably less fanfare the Kepler Quartet is demonstrating a similar crucial advocacy in a series of CDs devoted to the quartets of Ben Johnston, an American maverick born in 1926, whose early Neo-Classical and serialist phases led to a thoroughgoing investigation of microtonality. Formed to present the premiere of Mr. Johnston's String Quartet No. 10 in 2002, the ensemble -- Sharan Leventhal and Eric Segnitz, violinists; Brek Renzelman, violist; and Karl Lavine, cellist -- set out to record Mr. Johnston's complete quartets soon after.
The first Kepler disc, issued by New World in 2006, made a compelling bid to position Mr. Johnston's canon among the most striking accomplishments in American music. Confirming that impression, the second installment offers a shorthand overview of Mr. Johnston's stylistic development. His String Quartet No. 1 (''Nine Variations,'' 1959) shows a firm grasp of serialism, with a Webernian economy and lucidity.
During the 1960s Mr. Johnston fell under the sway of Harry Partch, the iconoclastic microtonalist, whose influence is felt in the disorienting slurs and blurs of Mr. Johnston's String Quartet No. 5 (1979), a single-movement span in which the Appalachian gospel song ''Lonesome Valley'' is radically transformed but never disappears entirely.
Likewise in the 10th Quartet (1995), one of Mr. Johnston's lissome latter-day reconciliations of sonata form and expanded intonation, the familiar melody of ''Danny Boy'' emerges in the frisky finale. Here and throughout the disc, the Kepler players demonstrate a security and conviction that make this complicated music irresistible. STEVE SMITH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (94%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



529 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2707 words

HEADLINE: SQUASHING THE IVIES

BYLINE: By PAUL WACHTER. 
Paul Wachter, a founder of the news aggregator Web site againstdumb.com, last wrote about women's roller derby for the magazine.

 BODY:
One day in 1996, Trinity College's new president, Evan Dobelle, called the men's squash coach into his office. Dobelle was an unconventional hire. He didn't complete his bachelor's degree until he was 39, working in politics -- mayor of Pittsfield, Mass., aide to President Carter, treasurer of the Democratic National Committee -- then running first one, then another community college. But Trinity was a troubled institution, and the trustees weren't looking for another tweedy scholar. Enrollment was down even as the liberal-arts school was accepting 65 percent of all applicants -- a striking contrast to its rivals Amherst and Williams, which typically admit fewer than 20 percent of their applicant pools. The biggest problem was Trinity's immediate surroundings, the crime-/ridden, blighted neighborhood of Frog Hollow in Hartford. So Dobelle started an ambitious $225 million public-private urban-renewal project to improve the area -- including the construction of three schools and a performing-arts center -- without pushing its residents out. Then he turned to the college's sports programs, wondering if there might not be a quicker way to improve Trinity's brand. 
The obstacle there was that Trinity is a Division III school, and in Dobelle's view, winning a basketball championship, say, against an obscure college in the Midwest wouldn't make much of a splash. Trinity had a squash team, however, and even if the sport wasn't played everywhere, at least the school competed against Harvard, Yale and Princeton, elite universities known throughout the world. Beating them in anything would be big news. It was still easier said than done, though: no school outside the Ivy League had won the Potter Cup, given to the men's national champion in college squash, since the U.S. Naval Academy's surprise victory in 1967.
Dobelle asked his squash coach, Paul Assaiante, what it would take to compete with the Ivies.
Dobelle didn't know it at the time, but Assaiante's path to Trinity was as improbable as his own. A working-class kid from the Bronx, Assaiante competed in gymnastics at Springfield College in Massachusetts and coached the sport at the U.S. Military Academy. During his downtime there he took up tennis, became an accomplished player and applied as a lark when Army's tennis-coaching job opened up. When other candidates turned down the job after finding out they would have to lead cadets on mandatory early-morning runs, Assaiante got the position in 1977 -- and the added duty of coaching the squash team. He learned the sport quickly, moving on to coach it at Williams and then private clubs before landing the Trinity job in 1994.
So when Dobelle posed his question, Assaiante had been around squash long enough to know how to change the preppy American face of the sport. Recruit foreign players, he said, without skipping a beat.
It has been 15 years since that short conversation, at which Dobelle gave Assaiante the go-ahead to canvass the globe for players. Dobelle is now the president of Westfield State University in Massachusetts, but Assaiante is leading Trinity's squash team into the national-championship tournament later this week at Harvard as a favorite to win its 13th consecutive title. And if, after this article goes to press, Trinity gets past Princeton and Brown, there will be another streak on the line, too -- The Streak. Over the last dozen years, Trinity has not lost a single match to another school. At 239 matches and counting, as of this writing, it's the longest winning streak, by far, in the history of college sports.
Trinity opened its 2010-11 season at Williams in December. As the first snowflakes of winter fell on the campus in Williamstown, Mass., the home team was being pummeled inside the squash center. Down two games to none in a best-of-five match, Will Morris, Williams's top player, slumped against a water fountain and conceded to a teammate, ''I'm tired,'' as his opponent, Trinity's Parth Sharma, casually practiced a few shots on court, barely sweating.
Morris matriculated from St. Paul's, the New Hampshire boarding school that built the country's first squash court in 1884. His teammates were from Exeter, Choate and other top prep schools; 20 years ago Williams's roster would have been the envy of any school in the country. Today, against Trinity, it didn't stand a chance. Trinity started only one American, Travis Judson, a senior, in its nine-man lineup. Sharma was from Jaipur, India -- he attended a squash academy in Chennai before Trinity -- and behind him was a fellow countryman as well as players from Sweden, South Africa, Malaysia, Colombia, El Salvador and Jamaica.
What Assaiante understood in 1996 and what remains the case is that the United States isn't very good at squash. (The highest-ranked male American pro is No. 40: Julian Illingworth, a Yale graduate.) In part, that's because until the last 15 years or so, Americans played a different version of the game, one that employed a harder ball and smaller court. Also, in many other parts of the world, more people are able to play; squash isn't an upper-class sport. ''I grew up in a middle-class, maybe working-class, family,'' says Martin Heath, the Scottish coach at the University of Rochester, who was once ranked No. 4 in the world. ''In Europe, you didn't need to belong to a country club to play the game.''
At the beginning of Sharma and Morris's match, each player was conservative. Occasionally, each sent drop shots to the front corners -- not so much in order to win the point outright, however, as to tire his opponent. Squash is like sex, Assaiante likes to say: the object is to make it last as long as possible, wear the other person out. As in tennis, a point ends when the ball bounces twice or is struck out of bounds. But a squash court is small, a 672-square-foot box, and a good player who's not terribly out of position should be able to reach any ball.
Morris wasn't used to playing the game at Sharma's tempo. ''He forces the pace, and you can't slow it down,'' Morris said after the match. As the errors mounted for Morris, Sharma opened up his bag of trick shots. Lining up to hit a backhand into the front-right corner, he instead played it to the left with a deft flick of the wrist that wrong-footed Morris. ''My favorite part of the game is the deception,'' Sharma told me later. ''I like finding new ways to trick my opponent.''
When Sharma finished off Morris, he completed a 9-0 romp for Trinity over the No. 11 team in the country. Only Trinity's No. 5 player, Christopher Binnie from Jamaica, surrendered a game.
Trinity's first international recruit was Marcus Cowie, from Norwich, England. Just out of high school and already ranked among the world's top 100 squash professionals -- he deferred prize money that would have put him afoul of N.C.A.A. regulations -- Cowie first attracted the interest of Harvard's coach, Bill Doyle. But the admissions department turned him down, and Doyle, a Trinity alumnus, put him in touch with Assaiante. ''Trinity made a tremendous pitch,'' says Cowie, who hadn't heard of the college until Assaiante called. He met with Dobelle and was courted by Luke Terry, a Trinity graduate who served at Credit Suisse's London offices. Assaiante took him to a Red Sox game.
When he arrived on campus in the fall of 1996, Cowie was instantly the best college player in the country; he went on to win the individual intercollegiate championships as a freshman and sophomore. In 1999, Trinity beat Harvard for the first time, in front of 2,000 spectators at home. ''It was so crowded that when I broke a string, I couldn't push the door open to get another racket,'' Cowie recalls. ''It was match ball, and I won that last point with broken strings.'' Later that year, Trinity beat Harvard again to win its first national championship, ending Harvard's own run of eight consecutive titles. Seven international players were on that Trinity squad.
Other schools have had international recruits, but never in such numbers, and there have been chirps about Trinity's mercenary approach inside genteel squash circles. In 2004, The Harvard Crimson wrote -- erroneously -- that the ''Evil Empire of College Squash'' was handing out athletic scholarships, something schools in the Ivy League and the New England Small College Athletic Conference (which Trinity belongs to) are not allowed to do. ''The feeling was that if you beat Harvard, you had to be cheating,'' Assaiante says.
Trinity does enjoy one significant recruiting advantage: lower admission standards. ''The kids that play squash for Trinity could not get into Williams (and Harvard, Yale and Princeton),'' Zafi Levy, Williams's coach, told me by e-mail. (Levy, who is from Israel, played for Assaiante at Trinity and then transferred to Williams.) In some cases, that's certainly true: Randy Lim, a senior from Malaysia, didn't get into Princeton, for example. What's more, Trinity's admissions office, with support from the president, is able to give more slots to squash players than its competitors do. As the Yale coach David Talbott puts it, ''At Yale, where sports aren't the emphasis, the president isn't going to put that much focus on any sport.''
Still, if Trinity focuses more on squash than other sports, that's well within the rules set down by the N.E.S.C.A.C., which permits Trinity to devote 71 spots annually to athletes who would not be likely to gain admittance. Schools are free to divvy the slots among the sports as they like. (The Ivy League's numbers are not as transparent.) ''What I say to the critics is that we've never tried to pretend we're Harvard or Princeton,'' Assaiante says, adding that he's proud of his team's academic record. During his tenure, only one player has failed to graduate, and that student returned to his home overseas for financial, not academic, reasons.
But by now, the Ivies, too, have filled their ranks with international players. Assaiante's scouting advantages -- he coaches the U.S. national team and is also tipped off by the vast web of Trinity squash alumni now scattered around the world -- have been mitigated by the rise of the Internet, which makes it easy for anyone to track junior results in Lahore and Cairo.
''When we played Trinity in the national championship last year, they had nine international players in their top nine, and we had seven,'' Talbott says. Nearly all students will still choose an Ivy League university over Trinity when they can get in. ''Of the top eight squash teams, five are in the Ivy League,'' Bob Callahan, Princeton's coach, says. ''That's what's unique about the sport. You can access the best education in the country and still play at the highest level.''
Meanwhile, schools with less lofty admissions standards, including the University of Rochester (ranked No. 4) and Franklin & Marshall (No. 8), are catching up to Trinity by following its model.
Trinity's home match against Yale in mid-January was the most anticipated of this season. Last year, Trinity beat Yale 6-3 to win its 12th national title. And it was a contest that briefly captured the nation's attention, thanks to some histrionics involving the teams' No. 1 players. After the final point, Baset Ashfaq Chaudhry, a Trinity senior from Pakistan, who stands 6-foot-5, ran to his Yale counterpart, Kenneth Chan, who's a foot shorter, leaned over him and let out a primal scream. The footage was broadcast on SportsCenter and went viral online, but ESPN didn't show the moment earlier in the match when Chan made a similar unsporting gesture. Ashfaq apologized and later withdrew from the singles championship, but Trinity's phone lines were deluged with angry calls, and the incident did little to diminish Trinity's image as the bully of college squash.
Chan was playing at No. 2 this year, as was Sharma, who lost a challenge match to a teammate and countryman, Vikram Malhotra, who was now No. 1 for Trinity. But the biggest shake-up wrought by challenge matches was the arrival, for the first time in several years, of two Americans in Trinity's top nine, both graduates of the Brunswick School in Greenwich, Conn.: Judson was at No. 8, and a freshman, Matthew Mackin, was No. 9. Behind them were another dozen or so Americans, affectionately called the ''bomb squadders'' by Assaiante, who doesn't divide his team into varsity and junior-varsity squads. Instead, he inserts lower players into the lineup against weaker teams.
It's a philosophy that endears Assaiante to parents of all nationalities. ''I kept thinking there has to be something fake about this guy, but I never found it,'' says the author Tom Wolfe, whose son played for Trinity and who gave a party to celebrate Assaiante's recently published memoir, ''Run to the Roar.''
When Sharma and Chan took the court, Trinity led the match 2-1; Andres Vargas, from Colombia, and Antonio Diaz, from Mexico, eked out close victories for Trinity, while Mackin lost to Yale's Robby Berner, another Brunswick alumnus. Berner liked his team's chances. ''We were close last year, and they graduated a lot of players,'' he said.
Sharma and Chan split the first two games. The third game, and the match, tilted on an epic rally with Sharma leading 6-5. Three times Chan dove to the floor, barely able to flick the ball toward the front wall. Finally, Chan couldn't pull himself up in time, and Sharma whacked the ball to the open court. Sharma closed out that game and pulled away in the fourth.
On another court, Johan Detter, a Swede, avenged a junior-circuit loss to Yale's Neil Martin, from Ireland, and Binnie recorded Trinity's fifth win, clinching the match. Trinity would end up prevailing 7-2, with Judson accounting for the second loss. Yale's Berner told me that it augurs well for American squash that two homegrown players have cracked Trinity's lineup -- but he didn't mention that they were responsible for Trinity's two losses.
All streaks come to an end. ''The mathematical odds are so acutely against any continuation ad infinitum of such a historic feat,'' James Jones Jr., Trinity's current president, says. In December, the University of Connecticut's women's basketball team broke the U.C.L.A. men's basketball record of 88 consecutive victories, but then, just two games later, fell to Stanford. In his comments immediately after the game, Connecticut's coach, Geno Auriemma, smiled, praised the Stanford women and said he would probably appreciate his team's run all the more now that it had ended.
''Losing is a disease,'' the New York Knights' clubhouse psychologist says in the baseball movie ''The Natural.'' But winning also carries its own heavy burden. As a Trinity freshman, Gustav Detter, Johan's older brother, took the court against Princeton in February 2006 with the match tied at 4. He was facing a senior, Yasser el-Halaby, widely considered to be the best player in the history of college squash. Coming back from a two-game deficit, Detter pulled off a miraculous upset. He fell to the court and raised his arms in ecstasy. Two years ago, however, when Detter was a senior and pulled out the match in a similar situation, he felt only relief. ''I played that match with a completely different feeling, a fear of losing and letting the team down,'' he told me.
Of course, Assaiante is attuned to this feeling, this burden. ''The streak motivates them, it spurs them on, and it paralyzes them,'' he says of his players. He says he is prepared for the day his team loses, that he has rehearsed many times the speech he'll give. He pictures the match ending 5-4, with the Trinity player who loses the deciding match walking off the court, head down.
''First of all, I'll ask the five players that lost to raise their hands,'' Assaiante says. ''I'll say: 'All of you lost a point today. You lost the same number of points as the last man on the court. So Johnny, you have nothing to hang your head about.' ''
He'll invite the team to dinner, where he'll assure his players that ''nothing has changed,'' certainly not how he feels about them or how they feel about one another.
But first, before the team leaves the courts, Assaiante wants to do something else. ''I'm going to dance,'' he says. ''And then I'll yell, 'Yippee!' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left: Andres Vargas (from Colombia), Randy Lim (from Malaysia) and Vikram Malhotra (from India). (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRIK GIARDINO) (MM36-MM37)
 Streak Maker: The Trinity coach, Paul Assaiante, right, with Wesley Wynne, a senior on the team, which has won 239 straight matches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZY ALLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SQUASH (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GYMNASTICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); ARMIES (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



530 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: As G20 Leaders Set Deal, Geithner Criticizes China

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner took direct aim at China on Saturday at a meeting of the world's most powerful economies, saying that its currency was still ''substantially undervalued'' and that recent steps taken by Beijing to adjust its value were too small.
Meeting here over the weekend, financial leaders from the Group of 20 agreed on a set of guidelines to identify when economic and financial developments in some countries would create problems for the rest of the world. 
The agreement was forged after France and Germany persuaded China to accept a compromise that includes measuring a country's currency exchange rate as a gauge of the potential problems.
Even though China has allowed its currency, the renminbi, to appreciate against the dollar since last summer, it has not been enough, Mr. Geithner said. As such, the United States and its European partners say, China still retains an unfair edge in trade that is contributing to a two-speed global economy.
Mr. Geithner's blunt assessment added to a yearlong drumbeat that the United States has led, aiming to push Beijing to let the value of its currency rise and address its trade imbalance, pressure the Chinese have stiffly resisted.
Nevertheless, China did agree to compromise language on the yardsticks measuring imbalances in the global economy.
China had originally tried to quash efforts to gauge imbalances by looking at real exchange rates and currency reserves, which the United States and other Western countries see as having contributed to the financial crisis.
China has accumulated substantial currency reserves in United States dollars, helping it to hold down the value of the renminbi and run up a large trade surplus.
But China, after discussions with France and Germany, agreed to include those elements in the guidelines, although the rules were softened, along with public and private debt levels.
These guidelines are a ''first step,'' said Christine Lagarde, the finance minister of France, which is leading the G20 this year.
They grew out of concerns that fast growth in China and other emerging markets would stoke inflation and trade imbalances that could destabilize a recovery, even as advanced countries struggle to overcome lagging growth and high unemployment in the wake of a recession.
Unemployment is expected to stay high for the foreseeable future in the United States and Europe as they recover from the downturn.
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund, said that while the financial crisis was over, ''the social crisis is still there, and very strong. If you have growth that doesn't transform into jobs, what does that mean for the man in the street?'' he asked.
Jobs and growth are also a major concern in North Africa and the Middle East, where demands for greater democracy and equality have emerged in part from a paucity of economic opportunity, a concern cited by the leaders gathered here in Paris.
Mr. Geithner, citing the ''historic events'' that have unfolded in North Africa in the last several weeks, said the United States was committed to working with its international partners to secure ''a peaceful and orderly transition in Egypt and Tunisia and support the economic reforms necessary to promote broader gains in living standards.''
One of the major factors fanning wide social unrest in the region, he and others said, were high food and commodity prices.
The International Monetary Fund estimates that commodity prices jumped 20 to 30 percent last year, a trend that Mr. Strauss-Kahn said was ''creating a lot of problems for low-income countries and vulnerable people.''
In a separate telephone call with a small group of journalists, Robert Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, said, ''We're reaching a danger point'' in these countries. He said he urged G20 officials to ''put food first in 2011,'' even as they bicker over technical ways to measure imbalances in the world economy.
Mr. Geithner said the United States would support measures to limit the potential for the manipulation of commodity prices through greater transparency and oversight of the commodity and derivative markets, which some critics worry are being used by speculators to drive up commodity prices.
Beijing's currency policy has helped stoke a breakneck pace of growth in China that, together with other emerging markets, has been cited as a contributing factor in the runup in food and commodity prices.
Not surprisingly, each country is pursuing its own self-interest to resolve internal economic problems. These include high unemployment in the United States and difficult austerity measures in Europe, as countries tighten their belts to mend finances.
''It's very difficult to see any government doing something in its fiscal affairs just to benefit the broader system,'' Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chase International, said in Paris last week at a meeting of the Institute for International Finance.
Cajoling Beijing, however, is a losing proposition, Mr. Frenkel said, because the Chinese don't want to be seen as being pushed around.
Instead, he said, governments should tell China they understand why it has a savings glut, ''and then say, 'Let us help you design a system that helps you save less,' '' he said. ''That would be a win-win strategy,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



531 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Oil Keeps Flowing Despite Unrest, but High Prices Jangle Nerves Worldwide

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting from New York and Clifford Krauss from Houston.

 BODY:
PARIS -- The turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East has helped drive oil prices up to more than $102 a barrel for an important benchmark crude, Brent, although so far there have been no significant disruptions in production or supply, according to experts at the International Energy Agency here.
While Egypt and Tunisia have little oil, Libya is one of Africa's largest holders of crude oil reserves, Algeria and Iran are major suppliers and Bahrain and Yemen both border Saudi Arabia on the peninsula that produces much of the world's oil. Together, Libya, Algeria, Yemen, Bahrain and Iran represent about 10 percent of global oil production. 
Oil markets are famously skittish, especially when there is even the possibility of disruptions in the Middle East and North Africa, which account for some 35 percent of the world's oil production and a greater percentage of the world's known reserves.
That nervousness is likely to spread elsewhere, with so many economies still fragile in the wake of the worldwide economic downturn and with the possibility that higher crude prices could lead to further increases in food prices. The high cost of food has already led to unrest in several countries, even before political revolts began in the Middle East.
The increased price of energy is a ''burden that can be a detriment to the global economic recovery,'' said Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency.
Brent is a global benchmark crude oil that is produced in the North Sea and traded in London. It is typically the benchmark that is used to set the price for most of the oil from the Middle East. Another benchmark crude, West Texas Intermediate, closed at $86.20 a barrel on Friday. Each benchmark has an impact on gasoline prices in the United States, with the East Coast more affected by the Brent prices than other regions.
The reserves in the Middle East and North Africa (known as the MENA countries), while long important, have grown even more critical as demand for oil increases. Prices have risen about 30 percent since September, reaching their highest level since September 2008.
Those who track oil prices are especially worried about the renewed turmoil in Iran and the possibility of unrest spreading from Bahrain to Saudi Arabia, which could have a major impact on oil's price and its availability.
Richard H. Jones, the energy agency's deputy executive director and a former American diplomat in the Middle East, said that about 17 million barrels of oil passed through the Persian Gulf and the Strait of Hormuz every day. ''So if that shuts down, we're in big trouble,'' he said.
But so far, Mr. Jones said, the effects of the regional turmoil have been small. Egyptian production and transportation of natural gas have continued despite an explosion at a pipeline in the Sinai as the demonstrations against President Hosni Mubarak were under way. (An Egyptian investigator said four gunmen bombed the pipeline.) Although there have been labor protests among workers at the Suez Canal, so far analysts have said there is no danger of the vital waterway being affected by the country's political upheaval.
The unrest in Libya, while serious, has not disrupted its production of oil. Mr. Jones and Didier Houssin, who runs the directorate for energy markets and security at the International Energy Agency, said that Libya was not a major producer, selling ''only a little over one million barrels a day'' and representing about 2 percent of world production. If there were to be a disruption of supplies from Libya, ''We can cope,'' Mr. Jones said.
Still, a Deutsche Bank commodities analyst, Soozhana Choi, said, ''As antigovernment protests have spread from Tunisia and Egypt to the streets of Bahrain, Yemen and OPEC member countries Algeria, Libya and Iran, concerns about geopolitical risk and the potential for supply disruptions have returned aggressively'' to the oil market.
The International Energy Agency monitors strategic oil reserves that total about 1.6 billion barrels, Mr. Tanaka said. The agency has sometimes released reserves to smooth out global oil prices, including in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
The agency's chief economist, Fatih Birol, said that with Brent crude over $100 a barrel, ''we are entering a danger zone,'' he said, with oil prices ''creating inflationary pressures and risk for economic recovery.''
For now, although oil stocks are declining with increased consumption, ''there is still plenty of spare production capacity, especially in OPEC countries,'' Mr. Tanaka said.
Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank, speaking on Saturday at a Group of 20 meeting, said that the Saudis in particular had indicated that they had significant spare capacity, which may help to keep markets calm.
But over the past two years, Mr. Zoellick said, ''There is a much closer connection between food and energy prices.'' Part of the reason is biofuels, he said, but oil is also vital for fertilizers, transportation and agricultural equipment, especially in the developing world, where demand is increasing.
While the world is moving toward more renewable energy sources and re-examining nuclear power, it will be dependent on fossil fuels for years to come, Mr. Birol said. For the future, ''90 percent of growth in oil production will have to be met by MENA countries,'' he said. ''If not, we're in trouble.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%) AFRICA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); BAHRAIN (93%); EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



532 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: A Season of Giving Motivates Donors In Greater Numbers

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
The 99th New York Times Neediest Cases Fund campaign began Nov. 7 and ended Jan. 30. Daily articles in the newspaper and online offered a window into the lives of New Yorkers coping with poverty and spotlighted how the fund helped ease some of their struggles.
Thanks to money given to the fund, Mary Spencer, who at 102 had outlived her savings, was able to replace worn-out clothing. Patricia Walsh, formerly homeless and barely getting by collecting cans and bottles, bought a bed and a dresser -- the first time in her life she had a new bed, she said. Mirna B. Lopez, a Guatemalan refugee who cleans houses for a living, fell behind on her rent after a kidney transplant, but was able to avoid eviction. 
As the worst economic slowdown since the Great Depression dragged on, increasing the need for help, there was concern that donations would dry up. But readers responded in greater numbers than the year before. A total of 10,457 donors gave $6,061,024 in the course of the campaign, according to the fund's accountants. Last year, 10,428 donors contributed $6,280,243.
''We are extremely pleased and honored that our readers have remained so generous,'' said Desiree Dancy, the vice president of the New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the fund. ''While the dollar amount we received in donations this year was down, the number of online donations increased.''
This year's total contributions were about 3 percent short of last year's. Online, 4,689 donations came in, a 13 percent increase from last year's.
''The percentage of online gifts has climbed to 23 percent of the total, which is remarkable given that many donors have contributed for years by writing a check,'' said Cristine Cronin, president of NYCharities.org, which manages online donations for the fund. ''Donors clearly feel increasingly confident with the security and ease of Internet giving.''
Readers were particularly moved by an article about Thakane Masondo, an 18-year-old who was living in a homeless shelter while attending high school. Many wrote in, offering not only money but a room in their homes and help applying to college. A filmmaker expressed interest in making a documentary about her.
Alice Kenny, spokeswoman for Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, said that thanks to the outpouring of support, Ms. Masondo had found a home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx with a family that rents out rooms in its home to international college students; the family offered her a free room.
Two investment banks, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, continued a tradition of conducting company drives organized by first- and second-year associates. On Feb. 3, the people who led the fund-raising efforts -- Matthew Perlman and Caroline McKim Woodworth of Citigroup, and Nat Wells, Matthew T. Healey and Azer Songnaba of Goldman Sachs -- presented a total of $286,289 to Ms. Dancy.
The amount was an 81 percent increase from last year's and the largest sum raised by the banks in any year since the start of their involvement with the Neediest Cases Fund, in 1991. Ms. Dancy thanked the bank representatives and their colleagues for their efforts.
''There was a feeling that everyone was contributing, and that everyone should,'' Ms. Woodworth said.
Donations ranged from a few dollars to thousands. An executive at Citigroup matched every dollar raised over $50,000 -- excluding his own $25,000 donation. At Goldman Sachs, the company matched employee contributions.
''The articles are the most compelling way to get people to donate,'' Mr. Healey said.
Mr. Perlman agreed, saying, ''The articles show that you can make a big difference at the margin, with a little bit of money.''
During the campaign, some donors explained what inspired them, including brief notes with their checks or online forms.
Florence Glazer wrote: ''Enclosed is a check for $77, $1 for every year of my age. My dad started this with $1, and I am continuing the tradition.''
On NYCharities.org, Susan Glenn, inspired by Luke 12:48, wrote, ''To those whom much is given, much is required.''
Larry Mark found an envelope on the street, he said: ''I picked it up in curiosity, and it contained a couple hundred dollars in new bills. I contacted two local police precincts, but no one reported the missing money.''
So Mr. Mark gave it to the Neediest Cases Fund.
This year, Alquena Reed was a donor, but in the past, she had been a recipient of Neediest Cases aid. She wrote: ''Things were really bad for me. I was told about the charity. They said they could help me. They did.''
Every dollar sent to the fund during the 2010-11 campaign will be divided among seven of New York's largest charities to provide continued emergency assistance. Profiles of some of those people helped will appear in the 100th campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Patricia Walsh, Mary Spencer, Thakane Masondo and Mirna B. Lopez, with her son Michael, received aid from the fund, which ended its 99th campaign. An audio slide show is at nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: THE NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 2010-11: The fund invests contributions of $100,000 or more from trusts and estates in an endowment. The income goes into the next year's campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); EVICTION (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); RELIGION (60%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (54%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



533 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Monopoly, Milton Friedman's Way

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
When Hasbro showed a new version of Monopoly last week at the Toy Fair, people were aghast that an infrared tower in the center of the board would squawk instructions, track players' money and make sure that everyone abided by the rules.
A generation of children may never learn to make change. They may never learn to argue about rules and change them. And they may never, as I and a group of Monopoly fanatics in college did in a great all-night game, learn important economic lessons. ''There might not be the attention span for that anymore,'' said Mike Zelenty, one of the players. 
Monopoly was taken seriously in Shorey House at the University of Chicago in the late 1970s. A room was set aside as ''The Monopoly Room.'' But in that post-Vietnam, pre-Reagan era, all assumptions were questioned and a game our parents played was no exception. Rules were meant to be altered. The house even convened a ''constitution convention'' to change the official rules of the game to allow a person to build a hotel on a property without first having to own four houses. Mr. Zelenty, now a corporate lawyer in his native New Jersey, remembers holding a sign that said, ''New Jersey Espouses / Hotels Without Houses.''
The other thing taken as seriously in that dorm was free-market economics or, more precisely, Milton Friedman, the University of Chicago economics professor. This was a house that frequently invited Professor Friedman and his wife, Rose, to sherry hours. House members ran a snack bar in the basement of the dormitory called Tanstaafl, an abbreviation of a saying favored by Mr. Friedman, that ''there ain't no such thing as a free lunch.''
Mr. Zelenty owned the greatest of treasures any of us could imagine because it combined those two passions. He had asked Mr. Friedman to sign his Monopoly board at one of those sherry hours. The Nobel laureate did so, writing, ''Down with'' above the game's name. We didn't play on that board. No one ever played on that board. (Mr. Zelenty said he still has it and wants to donate the relic to the university one day. ''It's in a place of safety more than a place of honor,'' he said.)
The precise details of our classic game are blurred by the alcohol consumed that night and the years that have passed since then, but this much is recalled. We decided that Monopoly was hostile to a free market because it restricted the number of houses or hotels one could buy. We voted that a player could buy as many hotels as a property could physically bear and rents would be raised proportionally.
But the bank soon began to run out of money. So we did what any government would do. We began printing more of it, by scribbling $500 on scraps of paper. We printed a lot of money.
Prices shot up, which we all knew, even in that inebriated state, was the consequence of expanding the money supply. (After all, the great economist told us, ''Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon.'')
The inflation became so extreme that we eventually voted to alter the rules again: we'd cut the money supply. Any money we printed that came back to the bank would be taken out of circulation.
A severe depression kicked in, of course. Prices plummeted and it was a race to liquidate assets. One by one the players quickly went bankrupt, and sometime around 4 that morning the game was over.
Who won has long been forgotten, but it was one of the greatest games of Monopoly ever played because we got to change the rules.
Correction: February 27, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the popularity of the game Monopoly at the University of Chicago in the 1970s misspelled the name of a snack bar run by Shorey House, a dormitory. It was Tanstaafl, an abbreviation of ''there ain't no such thing as a free lunch'' -- a favorite expression of the economics professor Milton Friedman.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA SONMI HEGLUND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



534 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY CRITIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: The Lure Of a Price Tag That Says Zero

BYLINE: By ARIEL KAMINER. 
E-mail: citycritic@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When Stop N Swap, the rolling caravan of other people's junk, pulled up at the St. George Library on Staten Island one recent Saturday, the city's latest initiative to remodel consumer habits was a modest, even slightly depressing affair: a few scraggly pieces of clothing hanging on a sparse rack and someone else's housewares.
Some retirees were poking around, along with an overextended mother and the children who overextend her. The eight volunteers staffing the event almost outnumbered the participants. But it was an auspicious beginning: the first of five boroughwide swap meets, sponsored by GrowNYC, the organization that also runs the greenmarkets.
Reluctant to show up to a party empty-handed, I had brought a pink angora hat, a framed black-and-white photograph, a ceramic pot, an orange sweater and a gray tie, which I deposited at the front desk. Those arriving behind me did the same and headed onward to see what they could score. The more that people carted in, the more they seemed to cart out, creating a perpetual motion machine of disgust and attraction, deaccession and consumption, and unearthing layers of anthropology of New York in 2011. 
A blue Today's Man shirt, size 15 1/2. VHS tapes of long-forgotten Discovery Channel shows. Four Baileys Irish Cream gift sets (minus the Baileys). A Shrinky Dinks oven. Poise bladder-control pads. Books like ''Scraps: Adventures in Scrapbooking'' and ''The Birds of Swan Point Cemetery.'' Battered old editions of Sorry! and Battleship. A huge cache of vinyl records, with LL Cool J's on top.
Two white cotton dresses found their way into the hands of Jill Turner, a visitor from western Massachusetts, as did a pink angora hat -- mine, I realized after a moment. ''I might wear it for a while,'' she informed me, ''and then recycle it again.'' Which made sense; she herself was just cycling through, on a short-term stay at the Ganas Community, Staten Island's three-decade-long communal living experiment.
The rules of the Stop N Swap are punishingly strict: Bring whatever you want, or don't bring anything at all; leave with as much as you care to, or nothing; come whenever you feel like it; go whenever you're done. Oh, and it's free -- not just the stuff you pick up; there is no entry fee.
Not exactly the usual mess of governmental red tape. Then again, GrowNYC is not your usual government agency; it's a nonprofit organization run out of the mayor's office. Its first swap meet was in 2002; this year, it plans to do five in each of three ''cleaning seasons'' -- post-New Year's, spring and before the winter holidays.
''What we're doing transcends economic times in many ways but is probably even more important now,'' said Marcel Van Ooyen, the group's executive director. ''Trying to get people to think of their stuff as not junk, but something of value that could be useful to other people -- then you get people thinking about maybe not buying things, maybe getting something repaired, reducing consumerism and, as a result, reducing their impact on the overall environment one item at a time.''
During the last major economic downturn, after 9/11, city officials told us the best thing we could do for New York was to go out and shop. This time, the message is to conserve and repurpose and share.
It's not just the traveling swap meets -- the last of which is Saturday, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Middle School 113 in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. There's also NYC Stuff Exchange, a city-sponsored guide to places to donate or find used goods; freecycle.org, a Web site that has for some become a social network and a way of life; and, of course, Craigslist, without which no first apartment could ever again be furnished. Park Slope, Brooklyn, home of a thousand stoop sales, has even given rise to Junk Slope, a tumblr account showing photographs of things people have left out on the street to be free-cycled.
The behavioral economist Dan Ariely has written about how lowering the price of an item from cheap to free can make it almost infinitely more attractive, even when much better alternatives might be available for just a few cents more. The prospect of getting something for nothing can short-circuit our ordinary sense of what we want, what we like and certainly what we need, a fact that helps keep the parallel economy of free stuff circulating nicely.
At the Staten Island swap meet, Paul Cox, a self-described freelance anthropologist from Bushwick, Brooklyn, brought books, shirts, computer parts -- some of which, he admitted, he had acquired at other swap meets. He said a successful swap was one in which he found not only things he knew he wanted but desires he didn't know he had.
But a price tag of zero can have the opposite effect, too: price is one way we measure value. When everything has the same price -- free -- it can be hard to distinguish between useful used objects and everyday junk.
In the end, 225 people made it to the Staten Island event (fewer than the high-water mark in Queens, which a few weeks later drew 350, but enough to be regarded as a great success). As I looked over the bounty of their basements and closets, surely rich with opportunity, nothing caught my eye. Not the salt-and-pepper shakers in the shape of little fish; not the his and hers boogie boards. Sadly, someone beat me to ''The Birds of Swan Point Cemetery.''
I eventually settled on a size 4-toddler box-pleat skirt with a crinoline lining.
Michela Traetto, who came to Staten Island by way of Italy and Germany, was enraptured by all of it. ''Oh, it's extremely interesting!'' she exclaimed. ''They have Dante, Italo Calvino, 'An Introduction to the Apocrypha.' ''
What really captured Ms. Traetto's imagination was a French translation of ''Buddenbrooks.''
''I was going to take this one,'' she said wistfully, ''but then I think, if I take it, someone else won't have it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The City Critic column in some editions last Sunday, about a Stop N Swap event on Staten Island in which items discarded by some users were taken by new users, misstated the day of the week on which it was held. It was a Saturday, not a Sunday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FREE BOUNTY: A Stop N Swap at the St. George Library on Staten Island drew 225 people. The event, one of five planned across the city for each ''cleaning season,'' is sponsored by GrowNYC and is intended to promote recycling. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MAYORS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%)

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



535 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: When Armies Decide

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There comes a moment in the life of almost every repressive regime when leaders -- and the military forces that have long kept them in power -- must make a choice from which there is usually no turning back: Change or start shooting.
Egypt's military, calculating that it was no longer worth defending an 82-year-old, out-of-touch pharaoh with no palatable successor and no convincing plan for Egypt's future, ultimately sided with the protesters on the street, at least for Act 1.
In so doing, they ignored the advice of the Saudis, who, in calls to Washington, said that President Hosni Mubarak should open fire if that's what it took, and that Americans should just stop talking about ''universal rights'' and back him.
As the contagion of democracy protests spread in the Arab world last week, Bahrain's far less disciplined forces decided, in effect, that the Saudis, who are their next-door neighbors, were right. They drew two lessons from Egypt: If President Obama calls, hang up. And open fire early. 
It is far too early to know how either of these reactions will work out. But in both countries, as in nearly all police states, the key to change lies with the military. And as with any self-interested institution, the military's leaders can be counted on to ask: What's in it for us, long and short term?
Egypt's military leadership came to the same conclusion that South Korea's did in the 1980s and Indonesia's did in the 1990s: The country's top leader had suddenly changed from an asset to a liability.
The military, with its business enterprises, to say nothing of its American aid and high-tech arms, required a transition that would let it retain power while allowing Washington to herald gradual, substantive reform.
In Bahrain, on the other hand, the military seems to have concluded that adapting to change would do them no good -- that the protesters were far too great a threat to their very command of society. So the country that acts as host to America's Fifth Fleet decided to ignore President Obama's advice, which it regarded as assisted suicide.
None of this came as much of a surprise to the White House, which last summer, at President Obama's request, began examining the vulnerability of these regimes and more recently began examining what makes a transition to democracy successful.
''There are many different factors involved in the cases we have looked at: economic crises, aging authoritarians, negotiated transitions between elites,'' said Michael McFaul, a top national security aide at the White House who runs what he jokingly calls the White House ''Nerd Directorate.''
He spent the past few weeks churning out case studies for President Obama and the National Security Council, as it sought lessons about how to influence the confrontations that have engulfed close American allies and bitter adversaries. ''There is not one story line or a single model,'' said Mr. McFaul, who drew on work he did as a professor at Stanford. ''There are many paths to democratic transition, and most of them are messy.''
Egypt certainly started out that way, with street battles between police and protesters, and a rampage by thugs to rout the protesters from Tahrir Square. But American officials, recalling their strained conversations with Egyptian counterparts, say they knew that Mr. Mubarak's days were numbered eight days into the crisis, when the military made clear that -- except in some extreme cases -- it simply would not fire on its own people.
''You could almost hear them making the calculations in their heads,'' said one senior American official who was involved in the delicate negotiations. ''Did they want to stick with an aging, sick leader whose likely successor was his own son, who the military didn't trust? And we just kept repeating the mantra, 'Don't break the bond you have with your own people.' ''
Their words were persuasive, in no small part, many American officials believe, because of the revered role the military has long had in Egypt and its deep ties to the American military. A 30-year investment paid off as American generals, corporals and intelligence officers quietly called and e-mailed friends they had trained with.
But now comes the trickiest part, which is making the military hold to its promises to allow a civilian government to flourish. That will mean the military must give up its monopoly on power, and that isn't easy for any leader of a regime, especially one deeply invested in its country's economy -- a trait Egypt's army shares with the People's Liberation Army in China. Already, Egypt's generals have balked at Mr. Obama's demand for an immediate end to emergency rule.
The question is whether Egypt's military can manage a transition to democracy, as the militaries of South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines and Chile have.
South Korea is perhaps the clearest example of a good outcome, for both its citizens and the United States. The country is now among the most prosperous in the world, and the government, after some very rocky years, is now Washington's favorite ally in Asia. In the face of large street protests in the mid-1980s, the generals gradually allowed free elections. In those days, rumors of coups were rampant, and the first freely elected president was a general. But the last four have been civilians, including one Nobel-prize winning dissident.
Then there is Indonesia. General Suharto ruled for 31 years -- then ran out of gas, just as Mr. Mubarak did. Washington ignored Suharto's many human rights abuses because he was a steadfast anti-Communist. But he lasted only two and a half weeks after street riots broke out in 1998, triggered by the Asian economic crisis.
Suharto's cold war utility had expired. Karen Brooks, a former White House expert on Indonesia, wrote last week for the Council on Foreign Relations about the similarities between Suharto and Mr. Mubarak: ''Both demonized Islamist political forces and drove them underground; both kept a tight lid on the media, the opposition and all forms of dissent; both accumulated massive amounts of wealth while in power'' and, of course, ''both enjoyed the support of the United States.''
After Suharto was finally forced out, it took the Indonesian military little more than a year to hold elections. Ms. Brooks said that a clear deadline was important, but so was allowing the Islamists to enter politics. They did so on an anti-Israel, anti-American platform. But even in the world's most populous Islamic nation, she notes, the Islamic parties have remained a small minority, because once they were inside the system ''the party found itself participating in the same unseemly activities'' as everyone else, from corruption to deal-making.
That example leaves the Israelis, among others, unimpressed. Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, they point out, is far better organized, and more disciplined. ''History is rife with cases in which well-intentioned revolutions are hijacked,'' said one senior Israeli official, echoing a point that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made the weekend before Mr. Mubarak's fall.
One can make a good case that Washington's comfort with years of slow, incremental change contributed to the crisis sweeping the region. When American officials visited Bahrain, the king, Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, usually said the right things: The country's dispossessed Shiite majority was gradually getting a larger share of the national wealth, and slightly greater political freedoms. In private, though, the Bahraini military would tell the Pentagon that it would never allow Shiites into serious positions. ''We were told the Shia would all be spies for Iran,'' one former senior official in the Defense Department said last week.
So when the protests started, the military decided that if it held its fire, Egypt-style, it would have no future: The Shiite majority would take over the country. Military leaders doubled their bet on King Hamad and his son, Crown Prince Salman, who on Friday was placed in charge of starting a ''national dialogue.'' The same day troops opened fire again.
Abderrahim Foukara, the bureau chief of Al Jazeera's Arabic service in Washington, said the crackdown's consequences are predictable. ''Once you shoot women and children at 3 in the morning, you may be able to hold on to power for a while, but any sense of legitimacy is gone,'' he said.
He may prove right. But other people said the same thing about the People's Liberation Army in Beijing when it opened fire in Tiananmen Square in 1989. The army's bet on firepower that June day has paid off many times over: Today it has far-flung business interests that make it so rich and powerful that most of China's leaders will not mess with it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FACEOFF: Bahraini protesters confronted army tanks last week. Unlike Egypt's military, Bahrain's would open fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASAN JAMALI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(WK7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM WEBER)(WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); SUICIDE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); HOSNI MUBARAK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BAHRAIN (94%); EGYPT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



536 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: A River of Competing Interests

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
STARBUCK, Wash. -- The governor of Montana invited himself to Washington State not long ago to explain to people who live along the Columbia River why they should help Montana export its coal across the Pacific Ocean to China.
Last month, the governor of Idaho turned up near the Columbia's principal tributary, the Snake River, to tell Idahoans that it was good policy to barge enormous oil-production equipment up both rivers and then truck it farther inland in triple-wide loads across a scenic highway.
And then there was President Obama, in his State of the Union speech, extracting a punch line from another Northwest resource famous for making its way, however uncertainly, up and down both rivers.
''The Interior Department is in charge of salmon while they're in fresh water, but the Commerce Department handles them when they're in saltwater,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And I hear it gets even more complicated once they're smoked.'' 
The line went over well, for the most part, a populist poke at bureaucratic excess. Yet by making salmon his symbol, Mr. Obama touched tender nerves here in a region where the embattled fish, many of which are endangered species, are inextricably linked to the majestic and controversially managed rivers they struggle to navigate. After all, the fish and the rivers have long been at the forefront of another challenge the president addressed in his speech: how to create energy and jobs while protecting the environment and reducing carbon emissions.
''It came out as a joke, but he doesn't know what we're going through,'' said Darcy Linklater, the mayor of this faded railroad town just a few miles from the Snake. ''It's just such a mess.''
It seems everyone wants a piece of the river system that the salmon travel, and agreeing on ways to share it is harder than coming up with one-liners.
On Feb. 1, huge trucks began hauling oil-production equipment to Montana from Lewiston, Idaho's only seaport, located 465 miles east of the ocean and made possible by a series of navigation locks connected to massive concrete dams that control the Columbia and Snake. Soon the trucks are expected to ship much more equipment farther north, to the oil sands of Canada, against opposition from groups who say the route, once traveled by Lewis and Clark, should not be used to advance the future of fossil fuels.
Even as advocates for salmon want some dams removed to ease fish migration, major renovations are under way this winter at three dams to ensure that the barge traffic they enable can continue for decades to come.
''Activity fosters activity,'' said Dave Doeringsfeld, the manager of the Port of Lewiston. ''The opportunity to meet future United States energy needs will benefit from the Columbia-Snake river system.''
At the other end of the river basin, in Longview, Wash., commissioners of Cowlitz County recently approved a permit to build an export facility on the Columbia that would allow Montana to haul coal to the river by rail, below the dams, then transfer it to barges so it could be shipped to Asia. Major environmental groups have filed a lawsuit that has delayed the project. Among their arguments is that exporting coal would undercut goals outlined by Northwest political leaders for reducing emissions and producing clean energy.
Documents recently released in the case suggest that the company that would build the facility had hoped to eventually make it far larger than what it had proposed to the state. A crucial factor shaping the company's plans is the limited construction period each year, known as the ''fish window,'' because it is arranged around when salmon are least affected.
To the frustration of advocates for salmon and the rivers, many in the Northwest have long boasted that the region gets much of its power from a renewable resource: hydropower from the dams on the Columbia and Snake. The advocates say there is nothing clean about dams that kill fish and clog rivers.
(In response to the president's speech, Nicole Cordan of Save Our Wild Salmon, wrote that the problem with salmon was not ''too many agencies in the kitchen'' but that the Obama administration's plan for saving endangered salmon ''is half-baked.'')
The prospect of now using the rivers to export coal and import oil-production equipment only deepens the tension.
''We've got so-called clean energy fostering dirty-energy sources,'' said Amy Kober, a spokeswoman for American Rivers, which is celebrating the removal of dams from several rivers this year. ''How does that impact our overall climate goals?''
Others worry about local economics. Mr. Linklater, the mayor of Starbuck, makes his living from the river system -- and from more than one side of the debates surrounding it. He runs a tackle shop that depends on a strong salmon run but he also rents space in an r.v. park to workers repairing the dams that impede the fish.
Some of his tenants represent still other interests in the salmon-river-energy nexus. They help install wind turbines rising quickly along the rivers and whose power is intended to complement energy produced by the dams. Or they scour future wind farm sites to avoid disturbing American Indian burial sites deep in the remote and treeless hills that surround much of the Columbia and the Snake in eastern Washington.
These kinds of negotiations are nothing new.
''Make a realistic bargain that preserves what can be saved of the Columbia and its salmon and its spirit,'' Blaine Harden wrote in his book, ''A River Lost.'' ''Make an agreement and abide by it honestly.''
The passage, published in 1996, was a paraphrase of the pragmatic philosophy practiced by the leaders of the tiny Wanapum tribe, centered on the banks of the Columbia near Vantage, Wash. A century earlier, the tribe had been known for spreading a controversial religion built on the idea that white settlers would one day vanish and the river and the region would return to its previous existence.
Over time, the Wanapums learned to live with change. Now, the core of the tribe, three extended families, lives in the shadow of a huge hydroelectric dam through an agreement brokered with a local electrical utility. They are surrounded by land sealed off by the former Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Rex Buck Jr., a Wanapum leader, said in an interview that his people had made concessions to stay on a changing river. One is that while only wild salmon are acceptable for ceremonial purposes, salmon from hatcheries can be eaten for regular meals.
Mr. Buck said he had not heard the president's speech or his salmon joke. But he said he had no expectation that salmon, or the river system, could be addressed quickly through government streamlining. Like many other interests on the Columbia and the Snake, the Wanapums, he said, plan to maintain their claim to them.
''All we're asking is that we live like neighbors,'' Mr. Buck said. ''My grandfather said maybe that's the way the great maker wants it to be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A crew for the Public Utility District of Grant County, Wash., on the Columbia seeking soil samples to use in designing pilings for a boat launch.
 Rex Buck Jr. of the Wanapum tribe, which has long been centered on the Columbia's banks and is now adjusting to the changes in the river. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN DUCEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); FISHES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); BULK SHIPPING (77%); OIL SANDS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



537 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Case on Mortgage Official Is Said to Be Dropped

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON; Peter Lattman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles have dropped their criminal investigation into Angelo R. Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide Financial, once the nation's largest mortgage lender, according to a person with direct knowledge of the investigation.
The closure of the case after two years of inquiry follows last October's settlement by Mr. Mozilo of insider trading allegations made by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Regulators had contended that Mr. Mozilo sold $140 million in Countrywide stock between 2006 and 2007 even as he recognized that his company was faltering. Countrywide and Bank of America paid $45 million of Mr. Mozilo's $67.5 million settlement, and he was responsible for the rest.
Without admitting or denying wrongdoing, Mr. Mozilo agreed to be banned from serving as an officer or a director of a public company. 
The conclusion by prosecutors that Mr. Mozilo, 72, did not engage in criminal conduct while directing Countrywide will likely fuel broad concerns that few high-level executives of financial companies are being held accountable for the actions that led to the financial crisis of 2008.
Hundreds of billions of dollars have been lost by investors while millions of borrowers have lost their homes. Few of the people who ran the institutions that contributed to the disaster have been found liable.
E-mails and other documents supplied to regulators in the S.E.C.'s case against Mr. Mozilo showed him discussing the company's lending practices and describing some of its loans as ''toxic'' and ''poison.'' Nevertheless, the company kept selling the types of loans Mr. Mozilo was denigrating.
The person with knowledge of the probe insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. The closing of the criminal case was first reported by The Los Angeles Times.
Even as criminal and civil prosecutors are closing investigations into financial executives, private litigation is swelling. Investors who purchased dubious mortgage securities are bringing a wide array of cases against mortgage lenders and the Wall Street firms that enabled them. These investors maintain, citing internal documents and e-mails, that those putting together mortgage securities knew that they contained problematic loans that would likely fail.
For example, a suit filed earlier this year against Bear Stearns by Ambac, an insurance company that guaranteed mortgage securities, cited an August 2008 e-mail from a former Countrywide executive. He explained to a friend that he had not recognized the financial cataclysm on the horizon because ''we were having too much fun'' processing risky mortgage instruments ''and getting loaded on Miller Lite.''
Mr. Mozilo, the son of a Bronx butcher, started Countrywide in 1969 with David Loeb, who died in 2003; together the men built the company into a mortgage lending giant with $11.4 billion in revenue at its peak in 2006.
In his years at Countrywide, Mr. Mozilo became one of the highest-paid executives in America. From 2000 until 2008, when he left, Mr. Mozilo received total compensation of $521.5 million, according to Equilar, a compensation research firm.
Mr. Mozilo made a rare court appearance last month in a wrongful dismissal case won by Michael G. Winston, a former Countrywide executive who said he was let go after questioning the company's practices. Observers said Mr. Mozilo was combative and defiant early in his testimony, but later looked frail and had to grasp the railing as he left the witness stand.
''All of these senior people got huge payouts and left behind the carnage, which has hurt many hundreds of thousands,'' said Ted Mathews, the lawyer who represented Mr. Winston in the case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (76%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



538 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: The Human Cost of Budget Cutting

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
Thomas L. Friedman and Nicholas D. Kristof are off today.

 BODY:
John Drew believes, quaintly, that we are our brother's keeper.
President Obama does not seem to believe this quite as strongly. And, of course, many of the Republicans in Congress do not believe it at all.
Mr. Drew is the president of Boston's antipoverty agency, called Action for Boston Community Development, which everyone calls ABCD. In today's environment, people who work with the poor can be forgiven if they feel like hunted criminals. Government officials at all levels are homing in on them and disrupting their efforts, sometimes for legitimate budget reasons, sometimes not.
The results are often heartbreaking. 
Community action agencies like ABCD are not generally well known but they serve as a lifeline, all across the country, to poor individuals and families who desperately need the assistance provided by food pantries, homeless shelters, workers who visit the homebound elderly, and so forth. They offer summer jobs for young people and try to ward off the eviction of the jobless and their dependents.
More than 20 million people receive some kind of assistance from community action agencies over the course of a year. This winter an elderly man in Boston was found during a routine visit to be suffering in his home from frostbite of the hands and feet. The visit most likely saved his life.
We should keep in mind the current extent of economic suffering in the U.S. as we consider President Obama's misguided plan to impose a crippling 50 percent reduction in the community service block grants that serve as the crucial foundation for community action agencies. The cuts will undoubtedly doom many of the programs. (The Republicans in the House would eliminate the block grants entirely.)
It's a measure of where we are as a country that this has not been a bigger news story.
''I've been like 40 years on the front lines here and never saw anything quite like what we're going through now,'' said Mr. Drew. ''I go back to when President Nixon tried to put us out of business. Reagan tried to push us off the table. They didn't succeed. Quite frankly, I didn't expect that at this stage of the game we'd be facing these kinds of cuts from a President Obama. And the Republicans in the House -- well, they're just nihilistic. I don't know where the moral center of the universe is anymore.''
Community action agencies were established decades ago to undergird the fight against poverty throughout the U.S., in big cities, small towns, rural areas -- wherever there were people in trouble. It's the only comprehensive antipoverty effort in the country, and the need for them has only grown in the current long and terrible economic climate.
President Obama's proposal to cut the approximately $700 million grant by 50 percent is an initiative with no upside. The $350 million reduction is meaningless in terms of the federal budget deficits, but it is enough to wreck many of these fine programs and hurt an awful lot of people, including children and the elderly.
It seemed like just a moment ago that these programs were held in high esteem by the president, a former community organizer himself. Community action agencies received $5 billion in stimulus funds to train people to weatherize homes. They ended up being ranked eighth out of 200 federal programs that got stimulus money in terms of the number of jobs created.
Now, suddenly, these agencies are dispensable.
The block grant money from the federal government is highly leveraged. The agencies secure additional public and private funds that enable them to support a wide network of programs that offer an astonishing array of important services. These include Head Start, job training and child care programs, legal services, affordable housing for the elderly, domestic violence intervention, and on and on.
When these kinds of programs are zeroed out, the impact is profound. Jobs are eliminated and vital services are no longer available. Poverty and its associated costs to governments increase. In terms of budgets, it's the definition of being penny-wise and pound-foolish. ABCD, for example, has been very effective in preventing evictions, working diligently with landlords, tenants and others to keep individuals and families from becoming homeless. When such efforts are successful, they not only keep individuals and families in their homes, they keep taxpayers from having to foot the very expensive bill of housing individuals and families in shelters.
President Obama may be trying to score a few political points by presenting himself as a budget cutter willing to attack programs that he has said he favors. But the price of those points in potential human suffering is much too high.
The president's budget director, Jacob Lew, said in The New York Times: ''The budget is not just a collection of numbers, but an expression of our values and aspirations.''
I couldn't agree more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SEASONAL WORKERS (76%); EVICTION (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (68%); COLD INJURIES (66%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



539 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Deficits Reshaping the Debate As Republicans Jockey for '12

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana described the nation's fiscal condition in dark terms more often reserved for a terror threat, declaring, ''We face an enemy lethal to liberty and even more implacable than those America has defeated before.''
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey argued that the country was headed toward financial ruin if leaders did not summon the courage to tackle the most politically charged aspects of the problem, saying: ''You're going to have to raise the retirement age for Social Security. Oh, I just said it, and I still am standing here. I did not vaporize into the carpet!''
Former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska said Republicans would be on the hook, along with Democrats, if runaway spending was not controlled in Washington, declaring, ''Tone-deaf politicians are going to be fired, and they're going to be replaced in the next election cycle.'' 
Budget deficits and the nation's growing debt load have emerged in the last few weeks as the consuming issues in Washington and in state capitals, and they are now shaping the early stages of the race for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination. Not a single candidate has formally opened a campaign yet -- and some of those delivering the toughest talk on the budget may never do so -- but the subject is giving focus and energy to a contest that has so far been largely unformed.
The growing profile of the issue has given Republicans an opportunity to cast President Obama as a weak leader, unwilling or unable to confront the tough issues, and has added fuel to the conservative drive for smaller government.
But it has also highlighted divisions among Republicans about how aggressively to cut domestic spending; the wisdom of supporting specific steps to address long-term problems in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security; and the proper balance between emphasizing fiscal issues and social ones like same-sex marriage.
And with the Republican-controlled House voting to cut deeply into this year's federal budget and state capitals producing their own volatile showdowns, it has underscored the opportunity for potential candidates to seize on a fiscal-themed message to break out of the pack.
As a result, a presidential race that once seemed poised to be a straight referendum on Mr. Obama's record -- with a particular focus on the health care law, the unemployment rate and criticism over the expansion of government regulation -- now seems likely to focus more at the outset on how aggressively the country should be reassessing the size and role of government and the future of the social welfare system.
The first debate of the Republican presidential season is scheduled for a little more than two months from now, and some candidates are expected to make formal announcements in March. But it is still not clear who, from a potential field of more than a dozen candidates, will decide to run.
Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts has reassembled many of the advisers who led his unsuccessful 2008 presidential campaign. Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota has logged more trips to early voting states than nearly any of his potential rivals. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, has secured early endorsements in important states.
The intentions of others are less certain.
Mr. Daniels has expressed concerns about whether his family is willing to put up with the rigors of a campaign. Mr. Christie joked last week that only suicide would convince political reporters that he is not running. Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi has lined up major fund-raisers and is taking his first trip of the year to Iowa next month. Former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, who holds a lead in several early polls, is scheduled to release a book this week but has taken few obvious steps to build a campaign operation. Ms. Palin said last week that she, and all potential candidates, should decide soon.
Senator John Thune of South Dakota, who once seemed close to jumping into the race, has now expressed reservations about being the only candidate who would have to vote on many of these issues while running a presidential campaign.
The challenge for the Republican candidates, said David Winston, a Republican strategist, will be finding effective ways to distinguish themselves and connecting fiscal policy to the broader economic concerns of voters.
''The outcome is reducing spending,'' Mr. Winston said. ''But the payoff is growing the economy and creating jobs. What people are focused on is the payoff.''
Those themes were at the heart of appearances over the last week by a number of leading Republicans, all of whom pushed the idea, to varying degrees, that the nation needed to have a serious fiscal debate. And with fiscal issues playing out in high-profile ways in Congress and in statehouses, they will be called on to take more specific positions.
One of the earliest tests will come during the debate over whether the federal debt ceiling should be raised, a looming legislative fight in Congress that will be a proxy for the battle in the Republican Party between pragmatism and principle. In his recent speech to the Conservative Political Action Conference, Mr. Daniels did not mention the topic. Mr. Romney has not dwelled on it, but others like Mr. Pawlenty and Ms. Palin have argued forcefully against raising the debt ceiling.
The realities of these budget burdens will play out in states at the very time Republican primary voters are weighing their party's prospective presidential candidates, which will drive the fiscal debate even more. In early voting states, where Republican contenders have been making frequent appearances, the issue is among the chief concerns.
''People were already concerned about the deficit, and then it just exploded,'' Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa, a Republican, said in a recent interview. ''The huge structural deficit has to be addressed, but that's going to require a lot of courage.''
Candidates in both parties have learned the hard way over the years about the risks of advocating changes to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, and it is not clear whether voter sentiment has changed enough to reward blunt talk this time around -- or whether positions taken in a primary driven by conservative voters might be problematic for the eventual nominee in the general election.
But with the anger and energy that animated the Tea Party movement last year still coursing through politics, how Republicans navigate fiscal issues could be just as critical to their primary campaign as the Iraq war was to the Democratic nominating contest four years ago.
Would Mr. Gingrich be rewarded or punished for presiding over the 1995 government shutdown? Would Mr. Barbour, a former White House political director, Republican national chairman and lobbyist, be seen as too much of an establishment figure to end business as usual in Washington? Will the Massachusetts health care bill signed into law by Mr. Romney define him forever in the eyes of conservatives as sympathetic to big government?
''People want someone who is going to be a threat to the system,'' said Steve Deace, who until last week hosted a prominent conservative talk show in Iowa. ''The thing that's really tricky is whether you can do that without coming across as the least likeable person on planet Earth. That's not easy to do.'' Mr. Deace left WHO-AM, the station where a young Ronald Reagan established his career, and plans to play a more active role in Republican politics.
Should Mr. Daniels get into the race, a decision that he said he intended to make in April, he would most likely face questions about his own role in presiding over the deficit during his time as director of the Office of Management and Budget under President George W. Bush.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana spoke at the Conservative Political Action Conference this month in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); REFERENDUMS (67%); MEDICAID (66%); MEDICARE (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (88%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



540 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: The Cuts the Pentagon Missed

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert Gates understands that the country cannot keep issuing blank checks to the Pentagon and that the Pentagon needs to spend more rationally and efficiently.
He is committed to equipping American forces for the wars they are actually fighting. He has terminated some costly and unneeded weapons programs, held errant contractors accountable, and pressed the services to find savings to help pay for new spending.
Mr. Gates is right that there is no way to restrain Pentagon spending without addressing health care costs, which now account for almost 10 percent of the budget. He has proposed that working-age military retirees pay higher health insurance premiums -- $520 a year, up from $460 now -- the first increase in 16 years. 
Some of that same managerial sense is evident in the Pentagon's latest $553 billion request ($118 billion more is requested for Iraq and Afghanistan). But Mr. Gates did not go far enough. The $78 billion in spending cuts he announced last month were not really cuts, but merely reductions in projected hefty increases.
Cuts in all areas of federal spending will be needed to bring down the deficit, and the Pentagon cannot be exempt. There are ways to cut that will not compromise national security. And the sooner those cuts begin, the less disruptive they will be to military planning, and the more savings they will yield.
Mr. Gates's proposal to cancel the Marine Corps's costly and unworkable Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle will save $11 billion in future costs. But $3 billion has already been needlessly spent. Unfortunately, Mr. Gates's new budget would continue many other weapons programs whose costs will continue to climb.
The $300 billion F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program has already seen costs per plane nearly double from the amount originally budgeted. It should be cut back. Programs to keep building Virginia-class nuclear attack submarines -- relics of the cold war -- and the unsafe V-22 Osprey aircraft should also be scaled down now.
The Pentagon needs to jettison the ancient formula that guarantees each service its accustomed share of taxpayer dollars. Air and sea power that can be readily mobilized are vital to American security. But for a decade, the Army and the Marines have been pushed to their limits while the Navy and the Air Force have looked for ways to stay useful and justify their budget shares.
Updating the formula to reflect a more realistic division of labor would wring significant savings from the Air Force and the Navy while protecting the Army and the Marines from the multiple combat tours that have strained service members and their families over the last decade.
Congress has been a big enabler of Pentagon bloat -- egged on by lobbyists and defense contractors. The Republican leadership, in particular, does not make even the pretense of fiscal responsibility when it comes to military spending. That is why it was gratifying to see 110 House Republicans joining Democrats to heed Mr. Gates's plea to cut off future spending for an unneeded alternative engine for the F-35 -- saving a potential $2 billion to $3 billion. Most of the work would have gone to Speaker John Boehner's Ohio district.
That is a start, but only a start. America has vast global security responsibilities and needs to remain prepared for a variety of future challenges. It needs to do so with fiscally sustainable military budgets that do not weaken our economy or distort national priorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); COLD WAR (79%); MILITARY BENEFITS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



541 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.'s Post-Tucson Traumatic Stress Disorder

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
SIX weeks after that horrific day in Tucson, America has half-forgotten its violent debate over the power of violent speech to incite violence. It's Gabrielle Giffords's own power of speech that rightly concerns us now. But all those arguments over political language did leave a discernible legacy. In the aftermath of President Obama's Tucson sermon, civility has had a mini-restoration in Washington. And some of the most combative national figures in our politics have been losing altitude ever since, much as they did after Bill Clinton's oratorical response to the inferno of Oklahoma City.
Glenn Beck's ratings at Fox News continued their steady decline, falling to an all-time low last month. He has lost 39 percent of his viewers in a year and 48 percent of the prime 25-to-54 age demographic. His strenuous recent efforts to portray the Egyptian revolution as an apocalyptic leftist-jihadist conspiracy have inspired more laughs than adherents. 
Sarah Palin's tailspin is also pronounced. It can be seen in polls, certainly: the ABC News-Washington Post survey found that 30 percent of Americans approved of her response to the Tucson massacre and 46 percent did not. (Obama's numbers in the same poll were 78 percent favorable, 12 percent negative.) But equally telling was the fate of a Palin speech scheduled for May at a so-called Patriots & Warriors Gala in Glendale, Colo.
Tickets to see Palin, announced at $185 on Jan. 16, eight days after Tucson, were slashed to half-price in early February. Then the speech was canceled altogether, with the organizers blaming ''safety concerns resulting from an onslaught of negative feedback.'' But when The Denver Post sought out the Glendale police chief, he reported there had been no threats or other causes for alarm. The real ''negative feedback'' may have been anemic ticket sales, particularly if they were to cover Palin's standard $100,000 fee.
What may at long last be dawning on some Republican grandees is that a provocateur who puts her political adversaries in the cross hairs and then instructs her acolytes to ''RELOAD'' frightens most voters.
Even the Rupert Murdoch empire shows signs of opting for retreat over reload. Its newest right-wing book imprint had set its splashy debut for Jan. 18, with the rollout of a screed, ''Death by Liberalism,'' arguing that ''more Americans have been killed by well-meaning liberal policies than by all the wars of the last century combined.'' But that publication date was 10 days after Tucson, and clearly someone had second thoughts. You'll look in vain for the usual hype, or mere mentions, of ''Death by Liberalism'' in other Murdoch media outlets (or anywhere else). Even more unexpectedly, Murdoch's flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, ran an op-ed essay last week by the reliably conservative Michael Medved trashing over-the-top Obama critiques from Palin, Rush Limbaugh and Dinesh D'Souza as ''paranoid'' and ''destructive to the conservative cause'' -- the cause defined as winning national elections.
If the next step in this declension is less face time for Palin on Fox News, then we'll have proof that pigs can fly. But a larger question remains. If the right puts its rabid Obama hatred on the down-low, what will -- or can -- conservatism stand for instead? The only apparent agendas are repealing ''Obamacare'' and slashing federal spending as long as the cuts are quarantined to the small percentage of the budget covering discretionary safety-net programs, education and Big Bird.
This shortfall of substance was showcased by last weekend's annual Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington, a premier Republican rite that doubles as a cattle call for potential presidential candidates. Palin didn't appear -- CPAC, as the event is known, doesn't pay -- and neither did her fellow Fox News personality Mike Huckabee. But all the others were there, including that great white hope of un-Palin Republicans, Mitt Romney. What they said -- and didn't say -- from the CPAC podium not only shows a political opposition running on empty but also dramatizes the remarkable leadership opportunity their fecklessness has handed to the incumbent president in post-shellacking Washington.
As it happened, CPAC overlapped with the extraordinary onrush of history in the Middle East. But the Egyptian uprising, supposedly a prime example of the freedom agenda championed by George W. Bush, was rarely, and then only minimally, mentioned by the parade of would-be presidents. Indeed, with the exception of Ron Paul -- who would let the Egyptians fend for themselves and cut off all foreign aid -- the most detailed discussions of Egypt came from Ann Coulter and Rick Santorum.
Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who lost his 2006 re-election bid by a landslide of 17 percentage points, believes he can be president despite being best known for having likened homosexuality to ''man on dog'' sex. Even less conversant in foreign affairs than canine coitus, he attacked Obama for deserting Hosni Mubarak, questioning the message it sent to America's ''friends.'' But no one (with the odd exception of George Will) takes Santorum's presidential ambitions seriously. Romney, on the other hand, is the closest thing the G.O.P. has to a front-runner, and he is even more hollow than Santorum. Indeed, his appearance at CPAC on the morning of Friday, Feb. 11, was entirely consistent with his public image as an otherworldly visitor from an Aqua Velva commercial circa 1985.
That Friday was the day after Mubarak's bizarre speech vowing to keep his hold on power. At 9:45 a.m. that morning, as a rapt world waited for his next move, CNN reported that there would soon be a new statement from Mubarak -- whose abdication was confirmed around 11 a.m. But when Romney took the stage in Washington at 10:35, he made not a single allusion of any kind to Egypt -- even as he lambasted Obama for not having a foreign policy. His snarky, cowardly address also tiptoed around ''Obamacare'' lest it remind Tea Partiers of Massachusetts's ''Romneycare.'' He was nearly as out of touch with reality as Mubarak the night before.
There was one serious speech at CPAC -- an economic colloquy delivered that night by Mitch Daniels, the Indiana governor much beloved by what remains of mainstream conservative punditry. But Daniels was quickly thrashed: Limbaugh attacked him for his mild suggestion that the G.O.P. welcome voters who are not ideological purists, and CPAC attendees awarded him with only 4 percent of the vote in their straw poll. (The winners were Paul, with 30 percent, and Romney, with 23 percent.) Indeed, Daniels couldn't even compete with the surprise CPAC appearance of Donald Trump, a sometime Democrat whose own substance-free Obama-bashing oration drew an overflow crowd. Apparently few at CPAC could imagine that Trump might be using them to drum up publicity for his own ratings-challenged television show, ''Celebrity Apprentice,'' which returns in just two weeks -- or that he had contributed $50,000 to the Chicago mayoral campaign of no less an Obama ally than Rahm Emanuel.
THE G.O.P. has already reached its praying-for-a-miracle phase -- hoping some neo-Reagan will emerge to usurp the tired field. Trump! Thune! T-Paw! Christie! Jeb Bush! Soon it'll be time for another Fred Thompson or Rudy groundswell. But hardly had CPAC folded its tent than a new Public Policy Polling survey revealed where the Republican base's heart truly remains -- despite the new civility and the temporary moratorium on the term ''job-killing.'' The poll found that 51 percent of G.O.P. primary voters don't believe that the president was born in America and that only 28 percent do. (For another 21 percent, the jury is still out, as it presumably is on evolution as well.)
The party leadership is no less cowed by that majority today than it was pre-Tucson. That's why John Boehner, appearing on ''Meet the Press'' last weekend, stonewalled David Gregory's repeated queries asking him to close the door on the ''birther'' nonsense. (''It's not my job to tell the American people what to think,'' Boehner said.) The power of the G.O.P.'s hard-core base may also yet deliver a Palin comeback no matter what the rest of the country thinks of her. In the CNN poll nearly two weeks after Tucson, Republicans still gave her a 70 percent favorable approval rating, just behind Huckabee (72 percent) and ahead of Romney (64 percent).
An opposition this adrift from reality -- whether about Obama's birth certificate, history unfolding in the Middle East or the consequences of a federal or state government shutdown -- is a paper tiger. It's a golden chance for the president to seize the moment. What we don't know is if he sees it that way. As we've learned from his track record both in the 2008 campaign and in the White House, he sometimes coasts at these junctures or lapses into a pro forma bipartisanship that amounts, for all practical purposes, to inertia.
Obama's outspokenness about the labor battle in Wisconsin offers a glimmer of hope that he might lead the fight for what many Americans, not just Democrats, care about -- from job creation to an energy plan to an attack on the deficit that brackets the high-end Bush-era tax cuts with serious Medicare/Medicaid reform and further strengthening of the health care law. Will he do so? The answer to that question is at least as mysterious as the identity of whatever candidate the desperate G.O.P. finds to run against him.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); TICKET SALES (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); DENVER POST CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (79%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GLENN BECK (56%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011



542 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Scheduled for this week are the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price indexes for December, and the fourth quarter and consumer confidence for February (Tuesday); existing home sales for January (Wednesday); durable goods orders and new-home sales for January and initial jobless claims (Thursday); and gross domestic product for the fourth quarter and the Thomson Reuters-University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for February (Friday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Barnes & Noble, Hewlett-Packard, Home Depot, Macy's, Medtronic, Office Depot, RadioShack and Wal-Mart Stores (Tuesday); DirecTV, KKR, Limited Brands, Lowe's, Saks, TJX and Toll Brothers (Wednesday); the American International Group, Dish Network, EchoStar, Gap, General Motors, Kohl's, Sears Holdings and Target (Thursday); and J. C. Penney (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, markets, government offices and many businesses will be closed in observance of Presidents' Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (86%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%)

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (70%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); RADIOSHACK CORP (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (70%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); RSH (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (70%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (70%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



543 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: A Good Investment in Tough Times

 BODY:
About 2.5 million residents of New York State, trapped at the margins of the economy, lack the basic skills that come with a high school education. To help these people -- and strengthen the economy -- the state must work with the cities to expand access to the relatively inexpensive programs that prepare people for the General Educational Development Test, which provides the equivalent of a high school diploma and gives low-skilled workers a leg up in the job market. 
The City Council recently undertook a broad set of initiatives aimed at getting as many nongraduates as possible into preparation and testing programs. Earlier this month, for example, it began a $1.25 million pilot program aimed at the thousands of job seekers who will turn up at city-run employment centers this year without high school diplomas. Under the new program, those people will be introduced to the G.E.D. and given an official practice test.
Those who pass the practice test will get the next available seat in the G.E.D. exam, bypassing what is often a lengthy waiting list. Those who need more preparation will be referred to free prep classes. The Council's new program deserves to be expanded, but for that to happen, the state must do its part.
Last year, the state brought G.E.D. testing nearly to a halt by withholding $1.1 million intended to reimburse the not-for-profit groups that administer the tests. The reimbursement was catastrophically low to start: a mere $20 for each test taker, which can be as little as a fifth of the provider's costs, depending on the services.
The state money was partially restored after community groups pushed back, but the disruption, which went on for several months, is still being felt in the testing network, where seats are more difficult to find than usual. Even in tough fiscal times like these, the Legislature must be able to find a few million dollars in the $96 billion operating budget for struggling adult learners. It's a minuscule price to pay for helping vulnerable New Yorkers find a way into the economic mainstream.
The Legislature should proceed carefully on two new provisions recommended by the State Board of Regents. It is a good idea to require G.E.D. candidates to take the official practice test before taking the full seven-hour exam, but only if the state subsidizes the costs so that the tests are widely available. The provision that would require test takers to pay a fee must include a waiver for the poorest of the poor.
The last thing the state should want is for people who are qualified for the test to be barred by an inability to pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



544 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: Humble, Frugal Tina Brown? A New Path With Newsweek

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
There will be no celebrity-studded gala with fireworks over New York Harbor this time. No brash predictions of upending the magazine business.
The debut of Tina Brown's Newsweek will, in fact, look nothing like the opening of her last magazine, Talk in 1999, an extravagant exercise in self-promotion and impossibly high expectations that came back to haunt her when that magazine closed after barely two years.
''We're sort of done with that,'' Ms. Brown said in an interview from Newsweek's spare, sterile new office space near Wall Street, insisting that the kind of A-list soiree that helped define her tenures as editor of Vanity Fair, The New Yorker and then Talk would have no place at her current home, where humility and frugality are the rule.
''I think the most important thing is to prove that a year from now we're thriving and still here,'' she said. ''Maybe we'll have a little Christmas party,'' she added in a sober tone that betrayed none of her usual sardonic wit. ''We have a lot of work to do.'' 
It is easy to see why Ms. Brown, 57, is eager to avoid any hoopla or hype surrounding her plan to turn Newsweek around. She has not even revealed the date when her fully redesigned magazine will appear on newsstands, though one person briefed on the closely guarded and evolving plan said March 7 was the current target date.
The charge before her -- breathing life into a magazine that much of the publishing world left for dead -- is as difficult as any she has faced in a 35-year career that brought her recognition as one of the world's most famous and accomplished editors.
Newsweek has been starved for advertising revenue in the last year as it has languished like a ghost ship -- first without a buyer after The Washington Post Company put it up for sale in May, and then without an editor as its new owner, the 92-year-old stereo mogul Sidney Harman, struggled to fill the job. The number of ad pages in the magazine through Monday was down 59 percent compared with a year earlier, a greater drop than that for any other weekly or biweekly magazine tracked by the Media Industry Newsletter.
And there is the much larger question of whether a weekly magazine is still a viable format for delivering the news.
Publishing veterans are not focused on whether Ms. Brown can sustain Newsweek as readers have come to know it during the last 78 years. What she needs to do, they say, is create a whole new magazine from scratch.
''Whether it can be saved is irrelevant,'' said Ron Galotti, the former Vanity Fair publisher, who worked with Ms. Brown at Conde Nast and left the company with her to help start Talk. ''What is to be created is the task.''
The Newsweek job is not one Ms. Brown initially wanted. When merger talks between her Daily Beast Web site and Mr. Harman collapsed in the fall, Ms. Brown told her employees she felt unburdened. She framed the magazine's troubles as worthy of Greek mythology, telling some of them that editing the magazine would have been like ''rolling a boulder up a hill,'' according to one person who spoke of Ms. Brown's remarks anonymously for fear of offending her by recounting a private conversation.
Ask some of the biggest names in publishing whether Newsweek can be saved and after a long pause, they all say that if anyone can pull it off, it is Ms. Brown.
''Tina's track record is indisputable and her talents and energies immense,'' said David Remnick, who succeeded Ms. Brown as editor of The New Yorker in 1998. ''The riddle of what a newsweekly should be has been in the air for many years and long preceded the incredible acceleration and obliteration of news cycles in the world of the Internet, so it will be fascinating to see where she takes Newsweek.''
Ms. Brown won acceptance to Oxford at 16. As a young writer, she caught the eye and heart of Harold Evans, the former editor of The Sunday Times of London and now her husband of nearly 30 years.
At 25, she took over the Tatler of London and quickly quadrupled its circulation. At 30, she was in New York running Vanity Fair. She supercharged the magazine with her signature high-low sensibility, which created a template for the magazine that defines it to this day. It was Ms. Brown who hired Annie Leibovitz, often at exorbitant cost, to shoot indelible images, like a naked, pregnant Demi Moore for the cover in August 1991, an issue that also featured heavier fare like an article on Saddam Hussein's grip on power in Iraq.
Her success in reviving Vanity Fair impressed Conde Nast's chairman, S. I. Newhouse Jr., so much, he asked her to take over his cherished New Yorker in 1992. She challenged conventions there as well, stripping the magazine of much of its stodgy feel and de-emphasizing fiction writing for long reported pieces on current events and breezy feature articles. Circulation and newsstand sales soared.
She left to start Talk in 1998, and after it folded, she hosted a show on CNBC and wrote a book about Princess Diana. She also showed an appetite for getting back into magazine editing. When Time was looking for a new managing editor in 2006, she approached people there about the job. The magazine's leadership chose Richard Stengel, a Time veteran.
Before taking the reins at Newsweek, Ms. Brown had been editing The Daily Beast, an online media partnership she began with Barry Diller in 2008.
With the Newsweek-Daily Beast merger complete -- the companies agreed to combine in November, and they officially closed on the deal late last month -- she has quickly thrown herself into overhauling the magazine. She has adapted her famous, at times infamous, ways of running a staff to suit the technological and economic realities of 2011. But there is still plenty of vintage Tina Brown to go around.
Gone are the faxes that would stream from her office at all hours; she conducts much of her written correspondence on her BlackBerry these days, eliminating the need for drivers to shuttle drafts of articles to her weekend house. It is not uncommon for her senior editors to find themselves barraged with e-mail from her predawn or on weekends.
''Her energy and her capacities are stunning to me, and she is at it all the time,'' Mr. Harman said in an interview. ''I pull myself out of the sack in the morning and there she is talking to me on 'Morning Joe.' ''
Known for wanting only stories that were, in her vernacular, ''hot'' -- she would scrawl ''hot'' or ''v. hot'' on drafts of articles she deemed the proper temperature needed to generate the buzz she sought -- she now speaks of Newsweek as needing to be both ''seductive and serious.''
Ms. Brown would not reveal anything about the contents of the redesigned magazine or its debut. ''We're only going to do it when we're ready, let's put it that way,'' she said in the interview. Between answering questions, she clicked through her BlackBerry, scanning e-mail.
''I think that big, sort of theatrical relaunches tend to set you up for failure and hype,'' she added. ''And you know we -- I -- went through that at Talk magazine, and it was a mistake.''
People outside the magazine who have seen the current prototype described it as recognizable as Newsweek in name only. The paper is thicker and glossier. There are more photographs and a greater use of white space. It incorporates The Daily Beast brand in a new section called NewsBeast. Advertisers have been told the back page will be a column written by a different notable figure each week discussing a professional blunder. Joe Scarborough wrote the one in the prototype being circulated now, which Newsweek executives never let out of their hands.
''From what I saw, it's night and day,'' said George Janson, an executive with the ad buyer GroupM. ''Its look, its energy is much more stylish.''
As familiar as the process of magazine reinvention is to Ms. Brown, there are notable differences this time. Financially, she has less flexibility. When Mr. Harman has spoken of his financial plan for the magazine, he has told people privately that he is giving the magazine three years to succeed and can afford to lose about $40 million in that time, several people who have spoken with him said. Anything exceeding that amount, he has said, would affect what he is able to leave to his heirs.
By contrast, Newsweek's expenses last year ran $40 million in the third quarter alone. The operation is considerably smaller now because of buyouts, layoffs and resignations. More buyouts were offered last week, and Mr. Harman said the staff of the combined Daily Beast/Newsweek would soon be smaller than the about 350 people that Newsweek had when he bought it.
Ms. Brown also acknowledged that readers' appetites had changed since she last edited a magazine. ''You have to basically make the assumption that they have absolutely no interest in you whatsoever,'' she said. ''There is so little attention to spare, you have to make sure that where their window of attention is open, you're in.''
In her previous jobs, Ms. Brown was famous for scooping up prominent writers and putting them on expensive contracts that would require only a few articles a year while preventing them from writing for competitors. She said that practice would be nonexistent at Newsweek, where she has been looking to hire more writers paid by the article.
''What we cannot have is what the old-style magazines had, where people are supported to do not a ton of pieces,'' she said.
Ms. Brown has a salary in the $700,000 range, according to one person briefed on her negotiations with Mr. Harman. Mr. Harman declined to comment. That amount is not wildly high for an editor with as high a profile as Ms. Brown's.
Holding costs down is one thing. Turning a profit is another. And Ms. Brown's magazines have generally proven better at spending money than earning it.
The New Yorker broke into the black in 2002, four years after she left but also for the first time since Conde Nast bought it in 1985. Ms. Brown points out that the magazine's losses had slowed significantly by the time she left.
At Vanity Fair, Ms. Brown had a reputation for spending lavishly on writers and photographers, expenses that put the magazine deeply in debt. But in her final years as editor, it began to turn a profit, though not every year, according to one person with knowledge of Vanity Fair's business. This person spoke only on the condition of anonymity because Conde Nast is private and does not release specific financial information.
Whether The Daily Beast has been the success that Ms. Brown had hoped it would be is a matter of some debate. It initially lost about $10 million a year, but executives said that advertising had picked up in the last year and that they expected profitability ''in the next few years,'' according to Stephen Colvin, chief executive of the Newsweek Daily Beast Company. Unique visitors to the site have leveled off in the range of two million to three million a month over the last year, according to comScore, the Internet traffic research firm.
The task of taking two money-losing operations and combining them to try to become one profitable enterprise has struck many in the media business as fanciful. This is not lost on Mr. Harman.
''What I wanted to know was whether there was a shot at this thing breaking even,'' Mr. Harman said, reflecting on his thoughts after he bought the magazine. ''But I'm looking at this thing and saying to myself: 'Son of a gun. I think we got a business here.' My expectation is it will surely break even.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tina Brown, with Stephen Colvin, chief of the Newsweek Daily Beast Company, is keeping her magazine redesign top secret. (A1)
 Tina Brown, former editor of The New Yorker and Vanity Fair, says Newsweek needs to be both ''seductive and serious.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); CHRISTMAS (67%); NEWSSTANDS (64%); PRINT ADVERTISING (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: SIDNEY HARMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



545 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Nuclear Folly

 BODY:
With the Middle East roiling, the alarming news about Pakistan's nuclear weapons buildup has gotten far too little attention. The Times recently reported that American intelligence agencies believe Pakistan has between 95 and more than 110 deployed nuclear weapons, up from the mid-to-high 70s just two years ago. 
Pakistan can't feed its people, educate its children, or defeat insurgents without billions of dollars in foreign aid. Yet, with China's help, it is now building a fourth nuclear reactor to produce more weapons fuel.
Even without that reactor, experts say, it has already manufactured enough fuel for 40 to 100 additional weapons. That means Pakistan -- which claims to want a minimal credible deterrent -- could soon possess the world's fifth-largest arsenal, behind the United States, Russia, France and China but ahead of Britain and India. Washington and Moscow, with thousands of nuclear weapons each, still have the most weapons by far, but at least they are making serious reductions.
Washington could threaten to suspend billions of dollars of American aid if Islamabad does not restrain its nuclear appetites. But that would hugely complicate efforts in Afghanistan and could destabilize Pakistan.
The truth is there is no easy way to stop the buildup, or that of India and China. Slowing and reversing that arms race is essential for regional and global security. Washington must look for points of leverage and make this one of its strategic priorities.
The ultimate nightmare, of course, is that the extremists will topple Pakistan's government and get their hands on the nuclear weapons. We also don't rest easy contemplating the weakness of Pakistan's civilian leadership, the power of its army and the bitterness of the country's rivalry with nuclear-armed India.
The army claims to need more nuclear weapons to deter India's superior conventional arsenal. It seems incapable of understanding that the real threat comes from the Taliban and other extremists.
The biggest game-changer would be for Pakistan and India to normalize diplomatic and economic relations. The two sides recently agreed to resume bilateral talks suspended after the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. There is a long way to go.
India insists that it won't accept an outside broker. There is a lot the Obama administration can do quietly to press the countries to work to settle differences over Afghanistan and the disputed region of Kashmir. Pakistan must do a lot more to stop insurgents who target India.
Washington also needs to urge the two militaries to start talking, and urge the two governments to begin exploring ways to lessen the danger of an accidental nuclear war -- with more effective hotlines and data exchanges -- with a long-term goal of arms-control negotiations.
Washington and its allies must also continue to look for ways to get Pakistan to stop blocking negotiations on a global ban on fissile material production.
The world, especially this part of the world, is a dangerous enough place these days. It certainly doesn't need any more nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); TERRORISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (76%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (57%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



546 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The 'Long War' May Be Getting Shorter

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL FICK and JOHN NAGL


HIGHLIGHT: Nathaniel Fick, a former Marine captain, is the chief executive of the Center for a New American Security. John Nagl, a former Army lieutenant colonel, is the president of the center.

 BODY:
Washington
IT is hard to tell when momentum shifts in a counterinsurgency campaign, but there is increasing evidence that Afghanistan is moving in a more positive direction than many analysts think. It now seems more likely than not that the country can achieve the modest level of stability and self-reliance necessary to allow the United States to responsibly draw down its forces from 100,000 to 25,000 troops over the next four years.
The shift is most obvious on the ground. The additional 30,000 troops promised by President Obama in his speech at West Point 14 months ago are finally in place and changing the trajectory of the fight. 
One of us, Nathaniel, recently flew into Camp Leatherneck in a C-130 transport plane, which had to steer clear of fighter bombers stacked for tens of thousands of feet above the Sangin District of Helmand Province, in southwestern Afghanistan. Singly and in pairs, the jets swooped low to drop their bombs in support of Marine units advancing north through the Helmand River Valley.
Half of the violence in Afghanistan takes place in only 9 of its nearly 400 districts, with Sangin ranking among the very worst. Slowly but surely, even in Sangin, the Taliban are being driven from their sanctuaries as the coalition focuses on protecting the Afghan people in key population centers and hubs of economic activity, and along the roads that connect them. Once these areas are cleared, it will be possible to hold them with Afghan troops and a few American advisers -- allowing the United States to thin its deployments over time.
A significant shift of high-tech intelligence resources from Iraq to Afghanistan, initiated by Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the former top commander, is also having benefits. The coalition led by the United States and NATO has been able to capture or kill far more Taliban leaders in nighttime raids than was possible in the past.
The United States certainly can't kill its way to victory, as it learned in Vietnam and Iraq, but it can put enough pressure on many Taliban fighters to encourage them to switch their allegiance, depriving the enemy of support and giving the coalition more sources of useful intelligence.
Afghan Army troop strength has increased remarkably. The sheer scale of the effort at the Kabul Military Training Center has to be seen to be appreciated. Rows of new barracks surround a blue-domed mosque, and live-fire training ranges stretched to the mountains on the horizon.
It was a revelation to watch an Afghan squad, only days from deployment to Paktika Province on the Pakistani border, demonstrate a fire-and-maneuver exercise before jogging over to chat with American visitors. When asked, each soldier said that he had joined the Army to serve Afghanistan. Most encouraging of all was the response to a question that resonates with 18- and 19-year-old soldiers everywhere: how does your mother feel? ''Proud.''
These changes on the ground have been reinforced by progress on three strategic and political problems that have long stymied our plans.
The first is uncertainty about how long America and its allies will remain committed to the fight. The question is still open, but President Obama and the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, have effectively moved the planned troop withdrawal date from July 2011 to at least 2014, with surprisingly little objection. Congress and the American public seem to have digested without a murmur the news that far fewer troops will be withdrawn in 2011 than will remain. NATO is not collapsing because of Afghanistan. In fact, the International Security Assistance Force continues to grow, with one-quarter of the world's countries on the ground in Afghanistan with the United States.
Two more vexing problems are the corruption of the Afghan government and the complicity of some Pakistanis with the insurgency. While it is safe to assume that neither the Afghan nor Pakistani leaders will fundamentally alter their policies any time soon, we are changing ours. Previously, our policy options with Presidents Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Asif Ali Zardari were limited to public hectoring and private pleading, usually to little effect.
Now, however, the coalition's military and civilian leaders are taking a new approach to the Afghan and Pakistani governments. We are establishing a task force to investigate and expose corruption in the Afghan government, under the leadership of Brig. Gen. H. R. McMaster. We are also shoring up the parts of the border that the Taliban uses by thickening the line with Afghan forces, putting up more drones and coordinating more closely with Pakistani border guards.
Not since the deterioration in conditions in Iraq that drew our attention away from Afghanistan have coalition forces been in such a strong position to force the enemy to the negotiating table. We should hold fast and work for the day when Afghanistan, and our vital interests there, can be safeguarded primarily by Afghans.
That day is coming, faster than many Americans think.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MILITARY TRAINING (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); VIET NAM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



547 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Watching Protesters Risk It All

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Ross Douthat is off today.

 BODY:
Manama, Bahrain
As democracy protests spread across the Middle East, we as journalists struggle to convey the sights and sounds, the religion and politics. But there's one central element that we can't even begin to capture: the raw courage of men and women -- some of them just teenagers -- who risk torture, beatings and even death because they want freedoms that we take for granted.
Here in Bahrain on Saturday, I felt almost physically ill as I watched a column of pro-democracy marchers approach the Pearl Roundabout, the spiritual center of their movement. One day earlier, troops had opened fire on marchers there, with live ammunition and without any warning. So I flinched and braced myself to watch them die. 
Yet, astonishingly, they didn't. The royal family called off the use of lethal force, perhaps because of American pressure. The police fired tear gas and rubber bullets, but the protesters marched on anyway, and the police fled.
The protesters fell on the ground of the roundabout and kissed the soil. They embraced each other. They screamed. They danced. Some wept.
''We are calling it 'Martyrs' Roundabout' now,'' Layla, a 19-year-old university student, told me in that moment of stunned excitement. ''One way or another, freedom has to come,'' she said. ''It's not something given by anybody. It's a right of the people.''
Zaki, a computer expert, added: ''If Egypt can do it, then we can do it even better.''
(I'm withholding family names. Many people were willing for their full names to be published, but at a hospital I was shaken after I interviewed one young man who had spoken publicly about seeing the police kill protesters -- and then, he said, the police kidnapped him off the street and beat him badly.)
To me, this feels like the Arab version of 1776. And don't buy into the pernicious whisper campaign from dictators that a more democratic Middle East will be fundamentalist, anti-American or anti-women. For starters, there have been plenty of women on the streets demanding change (incredibly strong women, too!).
For decades, the United States embraced corrupt and repressive autocracies across the Middle East, turning a blind eye to torture and repression in part because of fear that the ''democratic rabble'' might be hostile to us. Far too often, we were both myopic and just plain on the wrong side.
Here in Bahrain, we have been in bed with a minority Sunni elite that has presided over a tolerant, open and economically dynamic country -- but it's an elite that is also steeped in corruption, repression and profound discrimination toward the Shia population. If you parachute into a neighborhood in Bahrain, you can tell at once whether it is Sunni or Shia: if it has good roads and sewers and is well maintained, it is Sunni; otherwise, it is Shia.
A 20-year-old medical student, Ghadeer, told me that her Sunni classmates all get government scholarships and public-sector jobs; the Shiites pay their own way and can't find work in the public sector. Likewise, Shiites are overwhelmingly excluded from the police and armed forces, which instead rely on mercenaries from Sunni countries. We give aid to these oligarchs to outfit their police forces to keep the Shiites down; we should follow Britain's example and immediately suspend such transfers until it is clear that the government will not again attack peaceful, unarmed protesters.
We were late to side with ''people power'' in Tunisia and Egypt, but Bahrainis are thrilled that President Obama called the king after he began shooting his people -- and they note that the shooting subsequently stopped (at least for now). The upshot is real gratitude toward the United States.
The determination of protesters -- in Bahrain, in Iran, in Libya, in Yemen -- is such that change is a certainty. At one hospital, I met a paraplegic who is confined to a wheelchair. He had been hit by two rubber bullets and was planning to return to the democracy protests for more.
And on the roundabout on Sunday, I met Ali, a 24-year-old on crutches, his legs swathed in bandages, limping painfully along. A policeman had fired on him from 15 feet away, he said, and he was still carrying 30 shotgun pellets that would eventually be removed when surgeons weren't so busy with other injuries. Ali flinched each time he moved -- but he said he would camp at the roundabout until democracy arrived, or die trying.
In the 1700s, a similar kind of grit won independence for the United States from Britain. A democratic Arab world will be a flawed and messy place, just as a democratic America has been -- but it's still time to align ourselves with the democrats of the Arab world and not the George III's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); RIOTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



548 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Power Play

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last week, in the face of protest demonstrations against Wisconsin's new union-busting governor, Scott Walker -- demonstrations that continued through the weekend, with huge crowds on Saturday -- Representative Paul Ryan made an unintentionally apt comparison: ''It's like Cairo has moved to Madison.''
It wasn't the smartest thing for Mr. Ryan to say, since he probably didn't mean to compare Mr. Walker, a fellow Republican, to Hosni Mubarak. Or maybe he did -- after all, quite a few prominent conservatives, including Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh and Rick Santorum, denounced the uprising in Egypt and insist that President Obama should have helped the Mubarak regime suppress it. 
In any case, however, Mr. Ryan was more right than he knew. For what's happening in Wisconsin isn't about the state budget, despite Mr. Walker's pretense that he's just trying to be fiscally responsible. It is, instead, about power. What Mr. Walker and his backers are trying to do is to make Wisconsin -- and eventually, America -- less of a functioning democracy and more of a third-world-style oligarchy. And that's why anyone who believes that we need some counterweight to the political power of big money should be on the demonstrators' side.
Some background: Wisconsin is indeed facing a budget crunch, although its difficulties are less severe than those facing many other states. Revenue has fallen in the face of a weak economy, while stimulus funds, which helped close the gap in 2009 and 2010, have faded away.
In this situation, it makes sense to call for shared sacrifice, including monetary concessions from state workers. And union leaders have signaled that they are, in fact, willing to make such concessions.
But Mr. Walker isn't interested in making a deal. Partly that's because he doesn't want to share the sacrifice: even as he proclaims that Wisconsin faces a terrible fiscal crisis, he has been pushing through tax cuts that make the deficit worse. Mainly, however, he has made it clear that rather than bargaining with workers, he wants to end workers' ability to bargain.
The bill that has inspired the demonstrations would strip away collective bargaining rights for many of the state's workers, in effect busting public-employee unions. Tellingly, some workers -- namely, those who tend to be Republican-leaning -- are exempted from the ban; it's as if Mr. Walker were flaunting the political nature of his actions.
Why bust the unions? As I said, it has nothing to do with helping Wisconsin deal with its current fiscal crisis. Nor is it likely to help the state's budget prospects even in the long run: contrary to what you may have heard, public-sector workers in Wisconsin and elsewhere are paid somewhat less than private-sector workers with comparable qualifications, so there's not much room for further pay squeezes.
So it's not about the budget; it's about the power.
In principle, every American citizen has an equal say in our political process. In practice, of course, some of us are more equal than others. Billionaires can field armies of lobbyists; they can finance think tanks that put the desired spin on policy issues; they can funnel cash to politicians with sympathetic views (as the Koch brothers did in the case of Mr. Walker). On paper, we're a one-person-one-vote nation; in reality, we're more than a bit of an oligarchy, in which a handful of wealthy people dominate.
Given this reality, it's important to have institutions that can act as counterweights to the power of big money. And unions are among the most important of these institutions.
You don't have to love unions, you don't have to believe that their policy positions are always right, to recognize that they're among the few influential players in our political system representing the interests of middle- and working-class Americans, as opposed to the wealthy. Indeed, if America has become more oligarchic and less democratic over the last 30 years -- which it has -- that's to an important extent due to the decline of private-sector unions.
And now Mr. Walker and his backers are trying to get rid of public-sector unions, too.
There's a bitter irony here. The fiscal crisis in Wisconsin, as in other states, was largely caused by the increasing power of America's oligarchy. After all, it was superwealthy players, not the general public, who pushed for financial deregulation and thereby set the stage for the economic crisis of 2008-9, a crisis whose aftermath is the main reason for the current budget crunch. And now the political right is trying to exploit that very crisis, using it to remove one of the few remaining checks on oligarchic influence.
So will the attack on unions succeed? I don't know. But anyone who cares about retaining government of the people by the people should hope that it doesn't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); SCOTT WALKER (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (70%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); RICK SANTORUM (55%); GLENN BECK (54%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



549 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: After iPad's Head Start, Rival Tablets Are Poised to Flood Offices

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The billboards promoting the iPad have a simple message: The tablet is a device for leisure, to be held on one's lap while lounging on a couch in casual clothes, to watch a film or read a magazine.
But plenty of businesses have something stodgier in mind. Companies as diverse as General Electric, Wells Fargo, Mercedes-Benz and Medtronic are putting Apple's iPad to work in their offices. And as a string of devices tailored for the office enters the market -- from the likes of Motorola, Research In Motion, Samsung and Hewlett-Packard -- tablets are all but certain to flood America's workplaces.
Ted Schadler, a vice president and principal analyst with Forrester Research, said he expected that tens of millions of tablets would be in use in America's workplaces by 2015.
''That's huge growth,'' Mr. Schadler said. ''It will be the fastest uptake of any device in the enterprise ever. Faster than PCs, faster than laptops and faster than smartphones.'' 
The new tablets are also expected to give the iPad, which has had the market largely to itself, a run for its money. R.I.M., which makes BlackBerry phones, and H.P. have long relationships with corporate technology buyers. For its part, Apple is hoping to stay ahead of competitors with a new version of the iPad, which may be unveiled as soon as next month.
The company, which sold nearly 15 million iPads in the nine months after the release of the device, won't say how many were bought by businesses. But during a conference call with investors and analysts in January, the company said more than 80 percent of Fortune 100 companies were using or testing the iPad, an increase from 65 percent three months earlier. Among those companies, said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, are JPMorgan Chase, Sears Holdings and DuPont.
Meanwhile, data from makers of business apps suggest that use in corporations is widespread. The tablet's road to the workplace has been conventional at times, with technology departments buying them for employees. For example, Life Technologies, a California company that makes products for the biotech industry, has handed out iPads to some 600 executives and salespeople. But the tablets are also walking in through the back door, as employees bring their favorite new tech toy to work and demand access to their corporate e-mail, calendars and other applications.
The trend, which the industry calls ''consumerization,'' represents a significant shift from the last few decades, when the most advanced technologies were first available in the workplace and eventually migrated into consumer products.
''We can't tell people not to use this technology at work,'' said Brandon Edling, director of workplace technology at NBC Universal. ''If we did, they would continue to use it and we would be in the dark about what they do.''
For all its inroads in the workplace, neither the iPad nor any other tablet has displaced the PC, the workhorse of information workers for three decades -- at least not yet. But that hasn't stopped Apple's perennial rival, Microsoft, from fretting over the tablet's intrusion into the world of business computing, which it has dominated.
In a series of PowerPoint slides for its marketing partners, Microsoft recently raised questions about the viability of the iPad as a business tool.
''How do you secure your corporate I.P.?,'' referring to intellectual property, read the slides, which appeared on ZDNet, a technology news site. ''How do you demonstrate compliance to auditors?''
To a large extent the iPad's entry into the business world was paved by the iPhone. When Apple first released the iPhone, it lacked capabilities to link up securely with corporate e-mail systems. But as executives tried the device, they often preferred it to their BlackBerrys and other smartphones, and soon began demanding support for them.
Apple gradually added capabilities, and the iPhone became standard issue in scores of large businesses.
Companies that waited two or three years to support the iPhone began adopting the iPad just weeks after its release.
''It was a very natural extension to provide support for iPad because it runs on the same operating system,'' said John Prusnick, director of information technology innovation and strategy at Hyatt Hotel & Resorts, which is based in Chicago. Mr. Prusnick said that at first Hyatt executives asked to use iPads at work. Then the company began giving them to its salespeople, so they could have easy access to interactive presentations about all the company's properties when making pitches to business customers.
Now, in some of its hotels, Hyatt is giving iPads to ''lobby ambassadors,'' who use it to expedite guest checkouts when there are long lines, and who can offer concierge services on the fly.
General Electric has distributed approximately 2,000 iPads internally, and it developed a series of applications both for its employees and for its customers. One app allows employees to approve purchase orders on the go, while another allows utility service personnel to monitor G.E. transformers in the field.
''It is remarkable how fast the iPad has spread in our business,'' said Linda Boff, global director of marketing communications at G.E.
Citrix, which makes an iPad application that gives users access to their Windows desktop, says its app has had some 700,000 downloads. The software maker Salesforce.com said its Chatter iPad app, which lets users gain access to data from corporate software programs, had been downloaded more than a million times. Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce, said Chatter was being used in more than 60,000 businesses.
''Of course, I still have a PC,'' Mr. Benioff said. ''But I am using it less and less and I am using my iPad more.'' He called 2011 ''the year of the tablet'' and added: ''If you call me next year, I will say it is also the year of the tablet. And if you call me in 2013, I'll tell you it's going to be the year of the tablet.''
Mr. Edling of NBC Universal also said that the 750 or so of the company's employees who have been issued iPads still have PCs. But during a recent trip by several dozen executives to a technology trade show in Las Vegas, most brought only their iPads. As a result, Mr. Edling said he was able to dispatch just one technology person to support them, rather than two or three.
Forecasters expect that over time, the popularity of tablets will eat into PC sales. In November, the research company Gartner lowered its growth predictions for the PC market this year to 15.9 percent, from an earlier estimate of 18.1 percent.
Not every company is ready to pull out the checkbook to buy iPads for employees. In a recent interview with Fortune, Diane Bryant, the chief information officer of Intel, said the chip maker was supporting iPads that employees bring in, but she added: ''I've never found anyone that was willing to give back a $1,200 notebook in exchange for a tablet. They look at you like you're crazy. I'd love to give out tablets, but I only have so much capital budget.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leah Poling, a Chicago Hyatt ''ambassador,'' using an iPad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Dr. Nir Cohen showing a patient an X-ray image on an Apple iPad at a hospital near Tel Aviv. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TRENDS (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); MEDTRONIC INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (52%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (50%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); MDT (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



550 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2562 words

HEADLINE: Facing Antitrust Fights at Home, Google Tries to Avoid One in Europe

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; Paul Geitner contributed reporting from Davos, Switzerland, and Claire Cain Miller from San Francisco.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- At the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the hottest ticket in recent years has invariably been an invitation to Google's lavish private party, and 2011 was no exception.
Eric E. Schmidt, soon to leave the post of chief executive, was avidly working the crowd amid free-flowing liquor and pulsating dance music.
But in recent months, Google has been attracting a different kind of attention. As its ambitions have grown, stretching into businesses far beyond Internet search and advertising by the click, so has the scrutiny of antitrust agencies on both sides of the Atlantic.
So Google extended an even more exclusive invitation to another Davos attendee, Joaquin Almunia, the European Union antitrust chief, asking him to meet face-to-face with Mr. Schmidt. 
The details of the investigation are not public, and Google has not disclosed its responses to the European Commission. A Google spokesman, Al Verney, said recently that ''there's always going to be room for improvement'' and that Google would ''continue to work closely with'' E.U. regulators to address any concerns.
But with investigations by the U.S. antitrust authorities piling up -- including questions about Google's proposed acquisition of ITA Software, a flight information company -- and with complaints growing louder on other issues ranging from privacy to copyright, the last thing Google wanted was to get bogged down in a lengthy antitrust battle in Brussels.
The case could also be costly for Google, and not just in tarnishing its ''don't be evil'' motto. If found in violation of European law, Google could be fined as much as 10 percent of its annual worldwide revenue, which topped $29 billion last year. It could also be required to adjust its business model as part of a remedy.
Google has some reason to be hopeful -- to a point.
Mr. Almunia is portrayed by those who know him as more of a consensus-seeker than his immediate predecessors, who imposed huge fines on Microsoft and, in another case, on the U.S. chip giant Intel, a ruling that is still under appeal.
Another reason for caution in Brussels is the danger, in the fast-moving world of the Internet, that any antitrust investigation would fail to keep pace with changes in technology and markets, a challenge that Europe faced during the Microsoft case and that threatens to arise again with Google.
''Very, very often, it turns out that dominance doesn't have a very long life,'' said Philip L. Verveer, the U.S. State Department coordinator for international communication and information policy, speaking about the European investigation this month in Brussels. ''It's important from an antitrust perspective to have a certain humility about whether or not activities involving major interventions are necessary.''
Indeed, the commission was wary of rushing into another high-stakes battle with another U.S. corporate powerhouse. But its members could not ignore the clamoring -- from struggling start-ups, major newspaper publishers and telecommunications companies, among others -- for them to take a look at Google's ever-reaching operations.
Yet now that the investigation has gotten under way, the wheels of justice are likely to turn more slowly than Google would like. In part, that is because of the complexity of such issues, but in Brussels, the problem is also exacerbated by the commission's limited resources.
In recent weeks, Mr. Almunia's department began seeking bids on a four-year contract worth 6 million, or $8.2 million, for consultants to help with cases, including Google, in the technology sector.
On Nov. 30, Mr. Almunia's office issued a news release saying it had opened a formal investigation into ''allegations that Google Inc. has abused a dominant position in online search, in violation of European Union rules.''
The decision was a risky one. Despite Google's market share in Internet searches of more than 90 percent in parts of Europe -- bigger even than in the United States -- the evidence in hand was limited. The E.U. case team had formal complaints from only three companies -- one French, one British and another German -- and each was a minnow in the technology world.
In addition, the commission's old antagonist, Microsoft, was among those pushing hardest for an investigation; two of the three complainants had ties, one directly, the other indirectly, to the company.
Yet during the course of 2010, the case team received signals that if a formal investigation were started and official questionnaires sent industrywide, they would get plenty more evidence.
Those detailed questionnaires have now been sent to dozens of companies, with replies starting to become due this month. Investigators are looking for any evidence that Google has the power to foreclose competitors, or shut out competition, and to restrict advertisers from doing business with other search engines.
During the preliminary inquiries, Google's own actions were perceived in Brussels as bumbling, according to at least one person with direct knowledge of the investigation. There were also apparent inconsistencies between Google's public and private statements regarding practices like ''whitelisting,'' or adjusting the results of Google's algorithms to favor certain sites in search results.
That specific issue has relevance in the United States as well. In an antitrust investigation there that strikes at the heart of Google's core search business, investigators in Texas are seeking evidence about the ''manual overriding or altering of'' search result rankings. That inquiry involves at least one of the Web sites in the E.U. investigation, a British price-comparison service called Foundem.
Unusually, last February, Google chose to publicize the names of the European companies that had filed complaints against it. They were Foundem; Ciao, another price comparison site in Germany; and Ejustice.fr, a French legal advice site. Google highlighted the fact that Ciao was owned by Microsoft and that Foundem had ties to a Microsoft-financed lobbying group in Brussels.
The decision, however, was seen as ''defensive and naive,'' said one senior commission official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Officials also saw Google's early responses as inadequate in addressing their central concern: whether Google had shut out competition. Google's submissions frequently dwelt on what it saw as its prerogative to preserve the quality of its own service for consumers.
''Suggesting that Google is under an obligation to show search results of other search services is like suggesting that Mercedes is under an obligation to put Fiat motors in its cars,'' the company's lawyers wrote to the commission in a confidential response on May 3, a copy of which was seen by the International Herald Tribune. That was in response to specific charges by Ejustice.fr. that Google had removed most of its pages from an online index. As a result, Ejustice said hits to its site suddenly dropped so sharply that it was effectively invisible on the Web.
Google said Ejustice.fr was violating guidelines set by Google about how to make the Web site findable in Google's search engine. That violation was a problem, according to Google, because users could end up never finding a Web page with the answer to their question -- just more pages of search results.
Google also said Ejustice.fr created pages with thousands of hyperlinks consisting only of search keywords, many with little or nothing to do with the law. ''This is typical behavior of sites that seek artificially to increase their search result ranking without offering authentic content,'' Google lawyers wrote.
At the same time, Google acknowledged that it had probably also removed some potentially useful links.
Another complaint by Adam and Shivaun Raff, the husband-and-wife team behind Foundem, was pivotal.
Foundem was singled out by ''The Gadget Show,'' a popular program on Channel 5 in Britain, as ''the U.K.'s best price comparison site'' in 2008. But for some time, the Raffs said, their site had become virtually invisible on Google's search results, and in July 2009, the couple headed for Brussels to complain.
There, they told Per Hellstrom, a cautious Swede who heads the antitrust unit in charge of the technology sector, how their site had been penalized by Google, starting in June 2006, even though its ranking remained competitive on other search engines like Bing and Yahoo.
They said that Google had then made it prohibitively expensive for them to make their site easier to find in a different way -- through paid advertising that appears next to Google's search results. And they made a third charge: that Google's algorithms had the effect of favoring Google's own price comparison tool, originally called Froogle and since renamed Google Product Search.
Mr. Hellstrom -- who was involved in the Microsoft battle, led the acrimonious case against Intel and also successfully defended in court the E.U.'s trail-blazing 2001 decision to block the merger of General Electric and Honeywell -- told the Raffs that their allegations alone were insufficient to start a case. But neither did he dismiss them out of hand.
At least two more meetings were held, and eventually the Raffs submitted a formal complaint, backed by written evidence that seemed at odds with some of Google's public statements.
For example, Julia Holtz, Google's chief lawyer in Europe, told reporters in February 2010 that ''we don't whitelist or blacklist'' other Web sites.
Yet one message to the Raffs from Google in September 2007 was labeled ''Update on Whitelisting.'' It focused on returning Foundem's paid advertising rates to normal. Two weeks later, Google informed Foundem that it had successfully ''facilitated a change'' and remedied the problem.
Foundem was still not satisfied with its search ranking, however, and the Raffs persisted.
By the autumn of 2009, Matt Cutts, the head of Google's Webspam team, which works on search quality, had begun a detailed dialogue with Foundem. Mr. Cutts advised Mrs. Raff in a Nov. 20, 2009, e-mail to do more to clean up garble on the site, and then ''we should see some positive changes to Foundem's relative ranking.'' Mr. Cutts insisted that there was ''no manual penalty affecting the ranking of Foundem pages.''
In a confidential May 3, 2010, filing to the European Commission, Google said that it had given Foundem ''the benefit of the doubt and removed the demotion'' after Foundem had fixed ''the most egregious quality deficiencies.''
Had Foundem done even more to clean up its site, made its original features clearer to Google and added product reviews or a blog, Google wrote, then ''Google's algorithms would have picked up these changes'' and any demotion would have been ''automatically removed.''
Foundem, however, charges that Google's remedy took too long -- three and a half years -- and that the process was too difficult.
Foundem also charges that Google uses other algorithms to favor its own services. Foundem produced color diagrams displaying where price comparison sites ranked compared with Google's own when more than 250 related terms were typed into Google's search engine. Across the top was a thick line of red dots showing how Google's own service usually came up at or very near the top.
Below was a lighter shower of green dots showing how competitors, including Foundem, lagged behind.
Google, however, is accustomed to dealing with complaints about search placement. Last November, on the day the commission formally opened its case, Google wrote on its European Public Policy Blog that its goal was serving users with ''the best, most relevant'' information and that not all Web sites would get the prominent billing that their operators thought they deserved.
Even as the small fry were making antitrust complaints, some of Europe's biggest corporate players began raising the alarm about other perceived threats to their interests.
In early March 2010, Martin Sorrell, the chief executive of WPP, a major advertising company, said in a newspaper interview that some of his leading clients wanted the European Commission to investigate Google, which was coming to dominate the marketplace for online search advertising. He was joined by Vittorio Colao, the head of the mobile phone company Vodafone.
In April, the European Publishers Council, a powerful industry group, went straight to the top, telling the president of the commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, that European business interests were at stake.
The publishers told Mr. Barroso that the ways in which Google was dividing advertising revenues with them and controlling what appeared in Google News and in Google's search engine were ''problematic,'' according to one person who attended the meeting but who asked not to be identified because the discussion was confidential. At least one person at the meeting suggested that the commission consider opening a broad antitrust inquiry into the Internet search market, the person said.
Two months later top newspaper representatives, including Francis Morel, the director general of Le Figaro, the French daily, and Mike Newman, the group circulation director for Associated Newspapers, which owns The Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday in Britain, publicly called on Mr. Barroso to enforce ''fair competition among all players, including search engines.''
Mr. Barroso promised the newspapers ''a bigger share in the battle for information and content.''
Importantly for the commission, national regulators were starting to act on their own turf, and not just on antitrust grounds.
E.U. officials were disturbed by the way Google was treating privacy issues being raised in Germany and other countries about its Street View mapping service. The company eventually conceded that there had been mistakes. Similarly, many European officials were troubled by the ramifications of Google's project to digitize books.
A few days before the commission formally opened its case against Google, Mr. Almunia telephoned David C. Drummond, the company's chief lawyer, to alert him of the investigation.
Mr. Drummond expressed his disappointment but there were no attempts at negotiating by either party, according to people with direct knowledge of their conversation, and who spoke about the call on condition of anonymity.
A couple of weeks later, Mr. Almunia's investigators broadened their inquiry by taking on two German cases, one from groups representing newspapers and magazines, the other from an online mapping company, Euro-Cities.
The industry groups B.D.Z.V., which represents newspapers, and V.D.Z., which represents magazines, have about 450 members and have accused Google of manipulating search rankings and favoring its own content.
Euro-Cities has complained that Google Maps was being integrated on other Web sites for free, and that this was destroying its business model.
Asked about the meeting between Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Almunia, Mr. Verney, the Google spokesman, said, ''We frequently talk to regulators as a normal part of any investigation process.''
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for Mr. Almunia, said that the antitrust chief was ''happy with Google's cooperation in the commission's investigation.'' She declined to comment further.
Paul Geitner contributed reporting from Davos, Switzerland
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Schmidt of Google at the World Economic Forum in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Joaquin Almunia, the European Union antitrust chief, has expressed satisfaction with Google's cooperation so far. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); MUSIC (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); INTEL CORP (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (92%); JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%) EUROPE (95%); BELGIUM (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



551 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: AS REPUBLICANS SEE A MANDATE, OTHERS SEE RISK

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Adam Nagourney reported from Los Angeles, and David M. Herszenhorn from Washington. Monica Davey contributed reporting from Madison, Wis.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In Congress and in statehouses, Republican lawmakers and governors are claiming a broad mandate from last year's elections as they embark on an aggressive campaign of cutting government spending and taking on public unions. Their agenda echoes in its ambition what President Obama and Democrats tried after winning office in their own electoral wave in 2008.
In Washington, the House approved more than $60 billion in spending cuts before dawn on Saturday that would hit virtually every area of government, setting up a showdown with Senate Democrats and the White House.
In New Jersey, Gov. Chris Christie, who is embroiled in a political fight with the teachers' union, is expected to call for drastic steps on Tuesday to close a roughly $10 billion budget gap. 
And nowhere has a newly elected Republican flexed more muscle or drawn a more severe backlash than in Wisconsin, where Gov. Scott Walker is pushing to curtail collective bargaining rights for state employees. ''For us, this is about balancing the budget,'' Mr. Walker said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''We've got a $3.6 billion budget deficit. We are broke. Just like nearly every other state across the country, we're broke.''
But in the view of officials from both major political parties, Republicans may be risking the same kind of electoral backlash Democrats suffered after they were perceived as overreaching.
Public surveys suggest that most voters do not share the Republicans' fervor for the deep cuts adopted by the House, or for drastically slashing the power of public-sector unions. And independent voters have historically been averse to displays of political partisanship that have been played out over the last week.
''If Republicans push too far and overreach their mandate, they will be punished by independent voters, just as they were in 1996,'' said Mark McKinnon, a Republican strategist who was a senior adviser to President George W. Bush. ''Voters said they wanted bold action. They are getting bold action. But Republicans need to be constantly reminded that the last election was a referendum for change, not a referendum for the G.O.P.''
Mr. McKinnon said that although Mr. Obama had claimed a mandate after his election, it turned out to be exaggerated, The president had paid a price for it, he said, and was adjusting.
Russ Feingold, the Democratic senator from Wisconsin who was turned out of office in the Republican sweep last year, said the new crop of Republicans was drawing false conclusions from the party's victory.
''They are taking some kind of public expression of deep concern about the economy and turning it into something entirely different,'' Mr. Feingold said. ''They are making a mistake. They say: 'Well, we won the election. Elections have consequences.' And I say, yes, and we are going to have another election next year.''
Republicans have presumably taken some lessons from Mr. Obama's experience. Several Republicans argued that the party was doing what Americans wanted -- reining in an out-of-control government -- and would ultimately be rewarded.
''I don't think there is an overreach,'' said Senator Ron Johnson, the Wisconsin freshman who defeated Mr. Feingold, adding, ''What we are facing is an American public that is really on the Republican side in their desire, on a macro basis, to cut spending, balance the budget and show real fiscal restraint.''
Governor Walker is counting on that interpretation of the voters' wishes. ''It's about time somebody stood up and told the truth,'' he said. ''And the only way for us to balance the budget at the state level or at the local level is to make sure that we give those local governments the tools they need to balance the budget, and that's what we're proposing.''
Mr. Walker's plan includes banning unions from bargaining over issues other than wages, stopping the deduction of union dues from state paychecks and requiring annual elections for unions to stay in existence.
Other Republicans are making similar efforts. In Ohio, Gov. John Kasich has signaled support for a law that would end collective bargaining rights for state workers and restrict those rights for teachers, police officers, firefighters and other local government employees. In Florida, Gov. Rick Scott is demanding that public workers pay 5 percent of their salaries toward their pensions.
At the very least, the huge demonstrations in Wisconsin over Mr. Walker's efforts suggest that the Republicans have succeeded in doing what Mr. Obama was unable to do last year: energize the Democratic base.
In addition, several Democrats pointed to Republican efforts to cut back abortion rights as another example of an issue that made them subject to the same criticism that Democrats faced: pursuing their party's base agenda while ignoring the central concern of Americans, jobs.
''I know what I have been hearing from my constituents,'' said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 Democrat in the House. ''This seeming meanness and disdain -- people want us to work together. They want us to solve problems. They want us to create jobs. They want to take care of their families. And I just hope they are watching this, because I don't think this agenda that I see playing out on the evening news is doing any of that.''
Things are very much in flux in all legislative arenas, and it is hardly clear what the final results of these actions will be. In Washington, with Democrats still controlling the Senate and the White House, much of the Republican agenda is likely to be stymied.
In a New York Times/CBS News poll in January, 43 percent of respondents said job creation was the most important issue for Congress; 14 percent cited reducing the federal deficit.
Michael Dimock, the associate director of research for the Pew Research Center, said its polling had found that while voters were eager to reduce the deficit, they also supported increases in spending on Social Security and Medicare and believed that tax increases would be needed to balance the budget.
''The spending-deficit issue is the trickiest issue for Republicans,'' Mr. Dimock said. ''It's clear that the public is with them in principle -- smaller government doing less -- but it's unclear whether they're with them in practice.''
The unemployment rate that proved to be a liability for Democrats in November remains high as officials, so far, have mostly failed to agree on shared economic policies. And some centrist lawmakers -- who had hoped that the elections of 2008 and 2010 would be interpreted as a hungering among voters for moderation -- say a new spirit has yet to take hold as Republicans have instead focused on the interests of their party's base.
For instance, not a single Democrat voted in favor of the Republican spending bill the House passed on Saturday -- mirroring the often unanimous Republican opposition to Democratic bills last year.
''The first thing you have got to realize is that real bipartisanship has to be a verb not a noun, and it means getting people talking about specifics,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who with Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican who is now retired, drafted legislation last year for a sweeping overhaul of the tax code.
''I do interpret this election as one where people were saying: 'Knock it off! We're tired of this food fight,' '' Mr. Wyden said. ''To me, if you are dealing with big issues where there is a history of folks being divided, of real polarization, the day you pass something folks are going to start to work to unravel it.''
Congress has yet to fully engage on issues like a tax overhaul, education standards, trade policy or even modest energy initiatives, on which lawmakers in each party had predicted they could find common ground and make real progress in an era of divided government.
Ted Strickland, a Democrat who lost a bid for re-election as governor of Ohio, said one reason Democrats lost was because of public backlash to what many perceived as Mr. Obama expanding the government to an extent they had not anticipated, especially in the areas of stimulus spending and health care.
''I think that could very well be happening now,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''I think the electorate is in a volatile mood. I think there's a continuing concern regarding the economy. And I'm watching what's happening in Washington. I think the Republicans are doing pretty much what they accused Democrats of doing, and that is not focusing on the economy and job creation.''
But John C. Danforth, a former Republican senator from Missouri, said Republicans were in fact focusing on what was of concern to voters -- a bloated government -- something Mr. Obama had not done.
''They have to do it,'' he said. ''They have to do a good job laying out the facts and the alternatives, and I believe the public is ready for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the Republicans who have begun an aggressive campaign of cutting government spending and taking on public unions are Govs. John Kasich of Ohio, above, and Chris Christie of New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (73%); JOHN KASICH (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



552 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Up With the Christies

 BODY:
There is no sound economic justification for the decision by Gov. Rick Scott of Florida to reject $2.4 billion in federal financing for the vital Tampa-to-Orlando high-speed rail project. Political pandering to his Tea Party supporters is the only explanation we can come up with. 
Over a decade in the planning, the 84-mile corridor was on the verge of construction, with guarantees from private entrepreneurs that they would absorb any cost overruns and operating deficits for the state. They anticipated 24,000 new jobs and a cornucopia of business growth for recession-mired Florida.
High-speed trains are booming as basic necessities for the nation's global competitors in Europe and China.
The 90 percent federal share was nevertheless rejected by Mr. Scott, whose deliberations included a 30-minute meeting with Tea Party opponents of the project. Instead of waiting for a state study, as he had promised, Mr. Scott offered his own pound-foolish bromides, as he insisted that Florida would not chip in $280 million.
He contended that state taxpayers could ultimately be on the hook for the whole project -- but had no evidence to support that claim. ''I don't see any way anyone is going to get a return,'' he insisted, ignoring the fact that sponsors included eight business consortiums from 11 countries. They saw opportunities rolling from the Orlando airport to downtown Tampa, Orange County, Walt Disney World and Lakeland.
Mr. Scott isn't the only Republican governor who has decided to play politics with his state's economic future. New Jersey's Chris Christie killed off a much-needed mass-transit tunnel under the Hudson River, and lost $3 billion in pledged federal funds. Wisconsin's Scott Walker and Ohio's John Kasich made a show of rebuffing a total of $1.2 billion in federal high-speed rail help.
The Obama administration laced its disappointment with notice that Florida's financing -- and economic benefits -- will be shifted to other states where the demand is high. California and New York are lining up.
Meanwhile, Mr. Scott's fellow Florida Republican, John Mica, chairman of the House transportation committee and a prime supporter of high-speed rail, called the governor's decision ''a huge setback.'' Senator Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat, aptly summarized the governor's fiasco: ''This is eating our seed corn.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRAINS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (54%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (90%); SCOTT WALKER (79%); JOHN KASICH (58%); BILL NELSON (58%); JOHN L MICA (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



553 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sets 21st-Century Goal: Building a Better Patent Office

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama, who emphasizes American innovation, says modernizing the federal Patent and Trademark Office is crucial to ''winning the future.'' So at a time when a quarter of patent applications come from California, and many of those from Silicon Valley, the patent office is opening its first satellite office -- in Detroit.
That is only one of the signs that have many critics saying that the office has its head firmly in the 20th century, if not the 19th.
Only in the last three years has the office begun to accept a majority of its applications in digital form. Mr. Obama astonished a group of technology executives last year when he described how the office has to print some applications filed by computer and scan them into another, incompatible computer system. 
''There is no company I know of that would have permitted its information technology to get into the state we're in,'' David J. Kappos, who 18 months ago became director of the Patent and Trademark Office and undersecretary of commerce for intellectual property, said in a recent interview. ''If it had, the C.E.O. would have been fired, the board would have been thrown out, and you would have had shareholder lawsuits.''
Once patent applications are in the system, they sit -- for years. The patent office's pipeline is so clogged it takes two years for an inventor to get an initial ruling, and an additional year or more before a patent is finally issued.
The delays and inefficiencies are more than a nuisance for inventors. Patentable ideas are the basis for many start-up companies and small businesses. Venture capitalists often require start-ups to have a patent before offering financing. That means that patent delays cost jobs, slow the economy and threaten the ability of American companies to compete with foreign businesses.
Much of the patent office's decline has occurred in the last 13 years, as the Internet age created a surge in applications. In 1997, 2.25 patents were pending for every one issued. By 2008, that rate had nearly tripled, to 6.6 patents pending for every one issued. The figure fell below six last year.
Though the office's ranks of patent examiners and its budget have increased by about 25 percent in the last five years, that has not been enough to keep up with a flood of applications -- which grew to more than 2,000 a day last year, for a total of 509,000, from 950 a day in 1997.
The office, like a few other corners of the government, has long paid its way, thanks to application and maintenance fees. That income -- $2.1 billion last year -- has made it an inviting target for Congress, which over the last 20 years has diverted a total of $800 million to other uses, rather than letting the office invest the money in its operations.
Applications have also become far more complex, said Douglas K. Norman, president of the Intellectual Property Owners Association, a trade group mainly of large technology and manufacturing companies.
''When I was a young patent lawyer, a patent application would be 20 to 25 pages and have 10 to 15 claims,'' Mr. Norman said. A claim is the part of the patent that defines what is protected. ''Now they run hundreds of pages, with hundreds, and sometimes thousands, of claims.''
Lost in the scrutiny of the office's logjam, however, was the fact that the number of patents issued reached a record last year -- more than 209,000, or 29 percent more than the average of 162,000 a year over the previous four years. Rejections also hit a high of 258,000 -- not a measure of quality, Mr. Kappos said, but a sign of greater efficiency.
Between the backlog of 700,000 patents awaiting their first action by an examiner and the 500,000 patents that are in process, a total of 1.2 million applications are pending.
Sitting in his suburban Virginia office, not far from a model of the light bulb Edison presented for patent in November 1879 (which was approved two and a half months later), Mr. Kappos proudly ticked off figures that he said proved the agency was heading in the right direction.
The backlog has actually declined about 10 percent from a peak of 770,000 at the end of 2008.
''We were able to work a 13-month year last year,'' he said, referring to the productivity increase in 2010 over the 2009. ''We are processing a far larger workload with the same number of examiners.''
Still, Mr. Kappos wants to add more than 1,000 examiners in each of the next two years, a 30 percent increase. Mr. Obama's 2012 budget calls for a 28 percent increase in spending, to $2.7 billion, over 2010. In two consecutive sessions, Congress has defeated a bill that would allow the patent office to keep all of the fees it collects. While another similar effort is under way, a big staffing increase will not be easy in a climate of cuts.
Mr. Kappos, a former electrical engineer and lawyer who joined the patent office in 2009 after 27 years at I.B.M., has improved relations with the union representing patent examiners. He and the union agreed on performance evaluation measures last year, the first time in 50 years that the yardsticks had been revised.
''I give David Kappos a good deal of credit for seeing where the problems have been and being willing to address them,'' said Robert D. Budens, president of the union, the Patent Office Professional Association. ''I think it's a little early to see the full extent of the changes. But we have seen an increase in morale and a decrease in attrition, which is now almost the lowest it's been since I came here'' in 1990.
Patent applications come from all over the United States, and the office has forgone satellite offices -- until now. Last year, the office announced it would put about 100 examiners in Detroit. Some prominent lawmakers from Michigan have worked on patent issues, including Representative John Conyers Jr., a Detroit Democrat who, when the decision was made, was chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which oversees patents.
Mr. Kappos said he chose Detroit because it had a large communities of patent lawyers and agents, nearby universities and transportation centers, and relatively low costs of living and real estate. ''Detroit has long been an innovation center,'' he said. ''It's undervalued, and that is where we want to invest.'' He said it would also attract a work force with more varied skills.
Mr. Kappos is also pushing an initiative that would charge patent applicants a higher fee to guarantee that their applications will receive a ruling within a year. But that initiative and others are not enough, said Paul R. Michel, who recently retired as chief judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, the main forum for patent appeals.
''The office can't be made efficient in 18 months without a vast increase in finances,'' said Mr. Michel, who has made evangelizing for an overhaul of the office a pet cause. ''Small efficiency improvements will only make a small difference in the problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Kappos of the Patent Office, with an Edison bulb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (92%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); STARTUPS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); NUISANCE (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); BUDGETS (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



554 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Long-Lost Wallet Is Returned, Memories Intact

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Rudolph R. Resta, 77, walked out of a wintry rain recently, through the revolving door of a largely empty Times Square office building, and into his distant past.
He found his two sons, now in their 40s, when they were small enough to fit into the same lawn chair, side by side. He found his wife, Angela, posing before a knife-sharp Pontiac Grand Prix in Prospect Park, looking very sultry in a jaguar stole; ''real jaguar,'' he said, ''not the stuff they have today.'' He found a picture of his father, Nicola, that he once worried he would never see again. He found a Social Security card issued by the Federal Security Agency (the office hasn't existed since 1953) and an American Express card so old that it wasn't green, it was purple and white. (Member Since 64.)
In fact, Mr. Resta found just about everything with which a well-stocked wallet would have bulged in 1970. Except, of course, the cash he carried on the day he carelessly left the wallet in a jacket pocket in an unattended coat closet on the second floor of The New York Times headquarters at 229 West 43rd Street, where he worked as an art director in the promotion department. 
When Mr. Resta went to fetch his jacket at lunchtime on that long-ago day, the wallet was gone. He wasn't to see it again for 40 years. The reunion was made possible by Jose Cisneros, 46, a security guard who works in the former Times building, now called the Times Square Building. He came across the wallet last fall when he was investigating a void between an old unused window on the second floor and the masonry seal behind it. The wallet had apparently been stashed there after a thief found it in the coat closet and pulled out the cash.
What about you? Have you ever come across a lost object of obviously high monetary or sentimental value? Were you able to reunite it with its rightful owner? Did you even try? Or have you ever benefited from the kindness of a stranger who turned in, say, a Chinese erhu worth thousands of dollars that you'd left on the curb at 68th and Amsterdam? City Room wants to hear your story.
Here's what Mr. Cisneros did. Recognizing that the wallet would surely have value to someone, he turned it over to Rafael Rodriguez, 38, the fire safety director at the Times Square Building. Because the wallet held several pieces of Times-related identification - including Mr. Resta's membership card in The New York Times Employees' Blood Bank - the two knew immediately that it had belonged to someone who had once worked in the building. ''This is very good,'' Mr. Rodriguez recalled saying to Mr. Cisneros. ''We could give it back to him or his family. That would be a fantastic satisfaction.''
But how, exactly, does one make such a connection? Mr. Rodriguez tried calling The Times, but was stymied by the message: ''To reach a particular department or person directly, press 0, then speak the name when prompted. For all other requests, please select from the following - ''
''To return a stolen wallet to a retired employee, press 9,'' was not among the options. (We closed that division years ago as an economy measure.)
Enter -- literally -- Gordon T. Thompson, formerly the manager of Internet services for The Times. One night, waiting for a movie to begin in a nearby theater, Mr. Thompson wandered into the renovated lobby of the Times Square Building, where he'd spent many years. He explained who he was and asked if he could look at some architectural renderings that were on display.
Mr. Rodriguez happened to be on duty at the security desk and seized his opportunity. He showed the wallet to Mr. Thompson. Mr. Thompson called this reporter, who's something of a Times historian. This reporter called Mr. Resta, who retired in 1999 but still lives in New York. Mr. Resta, laying aside his understandable suspicions, agreed to meet all of us at 229 West 43rd Street, share some memories and get his wallet back.
When Mr. Cisneros handed the wallet to him, Mr. Resta opened it gingerly and turned away for a moment, overcome by the tide of memory. After composing himself, he gave Mr. Cisneros a grateful kiss. And he didn't lose a moment showing off the glamor-puss shot of Mrs. Resta from 1963. ''She still is glamorous,'' he said, with evident pride and pleasure.
Before coming into Manhattan on the morning of our meeting in November, Mr. Resta told his wife that he knew he'd find a clipping in the wallet from 1968 - Senator Edward M. Kennedy's eulogy for his brother, Senator Robert F. Kennedy. Mr. Resta can still recite the phrase that meant so much to him: ''Some men see things as they are and say why. I dream things that never were and say why not.''
The clipping was indeed in the wallet, as were pictures of two boys squirming in a lawn chair and gamboling on the lawn at their old home on Avenue J in Brooklyn. Christopher is now 47 and deals in stock options. Paul, 42, repairs and sells bicycles. He has two children of his own. Both Christopher and Paul live in Belle Harbor, Queens, not far from where their parents now live.
Nicola Resta, the very picture of Old World probity, has been dead 45 years. He came to the United States from Bernalda, in southern Italy, where he knew Francis Ford Coppola's father. The elder Mr. Resta transferred his skills as a cabinetmaker to an industrial setting, becoming a pattern-maker for the Sperry Gyroscope Company. ''My father always said, 'Stick with a company,' '' Mr. Resta recalled, which certainly turns out to be sensible advice if you're going to lose your wallet for 40 years.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the items in Rudolph R. Resta's wallet, stolen in 1970, were his father's Mass card and a photograph of his wife, Angela. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (50%); BLOOD BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



555 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Ally of Police For 17 Years, Now a Target

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN
Madison isn't Cairo, and New Haven isn't Madison, so in a year when everyone seems to be taking to the streets, maybe there was not quite so cataclysmic a feel Thursday when more than 200 police officers -- or more than half the force -- descended on New Haven's High Victorian Gothic City Hall, flashing lights, blaring sirens, blocking a street, protesting the city's plan to lay off 16 police officers. It was part of a layoff of 82 city workers that was intended to help close a $5.5 million budget gap in the fiscal year ending June 30.
Yet in its own way this protest made almost as stark a point. It was striking for the anger and intimations of disorder outside, with some officers leaving their posts and union leaders warning darkly about the need for residents to arm themselves for protection. And it was even more striking for the target inside, John DeStefano Jr., New Haven's mayor for the past 17 years, son of a New Haven police officer, longtime friend and ally of the municipal unions. 
Unlike Wisconsin and other states certain to follow where Republican politicians are relishing a chance to challenge public employee unions and the largely Democratic constituencies they represent, this was not a scene with any likely winners. Instead, like the looming battles over the state budget in Hartford, it felt like a vivid snapshot of an era ending before our eyes. It was particularly awkward for Mr. DeStefano because the contracts he now characterizes as unaffordable are ones he negotiated. But there he was Friday saying that it is a new world and that public employee unions are stuck in the old one.
''We're facing unsustainable pension and health care costs; it's a national issue you're seeing playing out across America, where you have the public, the taxpayers, who are paying the bills, saying, 'I don't have a plan like that; why do they?' '' he said. ''I think the American public employee union leadership is having a hard time figuring out how to handle this. I think some of the anger is a form of denial.''
Mr. DeStefano is an unlikely hard-liner, a labor favorite who won the Democratic nomination for governor in 2006 by running to the left of the Democrat who won the job last year, Dannel P. Malloy. One of his prized possessions is a photograph of his father marching with his union holding a picket sign in front of City Hall.
But, he says, his father, who was on the force from 1948 to 1977, would never have expected the benefits police officers have today in a city where the average officer leaves the job at age 49 with an average pension of $74,400, and where pensions equate almost to a full salary for life plus subsequent cost-of-living adjustments. (Municipal employees in Connecticut with pension plans do not receive Social Security.)
''I don't think my father's generation ever expected to go out at retirement with a pension equal to base pay,'' he said. ''So when you look at these benefits and you compare them to other parts of the economy, what other workers are retiring on, you have to question the expectations that were built up over the last 20 and 30 years and whether this isn't a moment to reset those expectations and habits.''
The easy answer is that it's the symbiotic relationship between Democratic politicians and public employees running off the rails -- except the budget issues at the state level here reflect contracts reached in a state with a Republican governor from 1995 until this year. And though it is the easy answers we like, we can recognize both the dead end in many public employees' contracts and the many other broken pieces in federal entitlements, in tax cuts for the rich, in the ever-growing economic inequality in American life.
''I had the head of Afscme say to me, after saying this is a revenue problem, that a disproportionate share of wealth in the United States is concentrated in 1 percent of the nation's population,'' Mr. DeStefano said, referring to the municipal employees' union. ''And I said, you're right. If there's a picket line, I'll go on it. But that's not what we're here to discuss today. There is something we can do about ensuring that we have responsible, sensible benefits that are affordable to the taxpayers of New Haven. That we can fix. The 1 percent, that's above my pay grade.''
Sharing the pain among those in the vast, shrinking, embattled middle, it is clear, we're going to see plenty of. Fixing everything else that's broken, well, it is not clear whose, if anyone's, job description that is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); GOVERNORS (66%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



556 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey TV Station Is Accused of Failing Its Audience

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
WWOR-TV is the subject of an unusual investigation by the Federal Communications Commission, which is looking into charges that the station's owner, the News Corporation, misrepresented the station's number of employees and amount of programming. The investigation is gaining attention in part because WWOR is a rarity: it is effectively the only big commercial station licensed to the state of New Jersey.
At issue are the obligations that television license owners have to the communities in which they operate. Just how many reporters and newscasts can a station remove before it fails to meet those obligations? 
The investigation of WWOR implicitly asks that question. The station's news division was already weak when, during the recession in 2009, it dismissed some employees and cut its nightly newscast to 30 minutes from one hour. The F.C.C.'s inquiry, announced on Thursday, was prompted by complaints from media activists who say that since the cutbacks, WWOR has overstated its coverage in filings to the F.C.C.
WWOR's license has been in limbo for nearly four years. In a statement on Thursday, the News Corporation, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch, said it was confident that ''upon review of all facts and applicable law, the F.C.C. will recognize that these unwarranted claims hold no merit.''
The station's general manager and news director declined to be interviewed. In an e-mail, a station spokeswoman, Erica Keane, said: ''WWOR-TV stands by its record of service to New Jersey.''
WWOR has a complex history in the state. The station, formerly known as WOR, was licensed to Manhattan until the mid-1980s, when the license was transferred to New Jersey. Much of New Jersey is wedged between two major media markets, New York City and Philadelphia, and politicians have long complained about a lack of local television coverage.
A citizens' group for media reform, Voice for New Jersey, says the lack of broadcast coverage hampers accountability of public officials and reduces awareness about news in local communities. The state also has a news channel, News 12, that is available only to cable customers, and a public broadcaster, New Jersey Network, that is suffering from state budget cuts.
''We don't have a reliable station within our midst,'' said Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, referring to commercial TV stations. Mr. Lautenberg, a longtime critic of WWOR, said the station's executives had ''failed to live up to their obligations.''
The license for WWOR was granted on condition that its owner pay special attention to northern New Jersey. The station does -- but not sufficiently, critics say.
For its part, the News Corporation has said in filings that the condition was intended to ensure the station extend to all of northern New Jersey, not just Secaucus, where WWOR is based, and that WWOR's obligations are ''no different in kind or degree'' from any other station's. There is no general F.C.C. requirement that stations provide any newscasts at all.
WWOR broadcasts a Sunday public affairs program called ''New Jersey Now.'' But it has just one newscast a day, at 11 p.m., and shares resources with WNYW, the News Corporation's Fox station in New York -- even more since the budget cuts in 2009. The 11 p.m. co-anchor on WWOR, Harry Martin, doubles as the 6 p.m. anchor on WNYW, for instance.
One company's ownership of two stations in a market is deemed a duopoly. The News Corporation has nine such duopolies in the United States. It also owns The New York Post. The News Corporation has a permanent waiver allowing it to own both WNYW and The Post; a temporary waiver allowing it to own both WWOR and The Post expired in 2008.
A thicket of legal claims have been piling up ever since Voice for New Jersey called on the F.C.C. to deny the News Corporation a license renewal for WWOR in 2007. According to the group, the News Corporation told the F.C.C. that it employed more than 250 people at the station in Secaucus, even after reducing the staff and shortening the nightly newscast. Intentionally giving the wrong information to the F.C.C. -- or omitting important details -- violates the commission's rules. The News Corporation has 30 days to respond.
''This is a serious matter, which could result in severe sanctions,'' said Andrew Jay Schwartzman of the Media Access Project, a media reform group that has lobbied the F.C.C. on the matter. In the future, he said, ''I hope that the focus is on service to northern New Jersey, and not on the events around their conduct.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (67%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



557 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Number of Restaurants Keeps Falling

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
The total number of restaurants in the United States dropped nearly one percent from fall 2009 to fall 2010, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm. That is the latest decline in a decade in which the number of American restaurants has fallen steadily by roughly half a percentage point each year. 
A disproportionate number of the restaurants closed have been independently owned, leaving the field to chains, which now make up 46 percent of American restaurant locations.
''At some point, when the economy turns, we'll have a larger population than 10 years ago, but fewer restaurants to go to, because they closed the doors,'' said Harry Balzer, a vice president for NPD. ''This means restaurants are going to get crowded, and we can expect longer waits.''
ALEX MINDLIN

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: 579,102: Number of restaurants in fall 2010
 584,653: Number in fall 2009 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



558 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Rocker From the Heartland, Aging Brashly

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
At Radio City Music Hall on Friday night John Mellencamp joshed about what it would be like to meet his younger self: a brash kid who'd condescendingly say, ''Hey, Classic Hits, what's happening?'' He went on proudly to assert his age, 59, as a lead-in to what he announced as a ''song for my generation.'' It was ''Don't Need This Body,'' a blunt, death-haunted stomp that began, ''This getting older, it ain't for cowards.''
It was one linchpin of a concert that seesawed between facing mortality -- full of songs about death -- and a stubborn determination to live fully. Performing for more than two hours Mr. Mellencamp was as feisty about a bold middle age, in ''The Real Life,'' as he once was about wanting to ''hold on to 16 as long as you can'' in his biggest hit, ''Jack & Diane,'' from 1982. He doesn't care about the past, he insisted, but wisely he hasn't discarded it either. 
Mr. Mellencamp's ''classic hits'' made him a multimillion-selling rocker in the 1980s. He built the persona of a populist bad boy: a small-town guy bucking authority and speaking up for also-rans. But Mr. Mellencamp wouldn't act like a bad boy forever. He grew up fast.
By the late 1980s he was singing, in his gutsy, earnest rasp, about adult disillusionment and economic woes, particularly for family farmers. He would go on to write about politics, racism, hard luck, faith and dying. Mr. Mellencamp also rusticated and backdated his music, adding folky instruments to his band and modeling his newer songs on Woody Guthrie, Johnny Cash and the blues.
He made his 2010 album, ''No Better Than This'' (Rounder), in mono, using a tape recorder and one vintage microphone, in places including the San Antonio hotel room where Robert Johnson recorded and Sun Studios in Memphis. (''It's About You,'' a documentary shown to Radio City's early arrivals, was a grainy hagiography filmed on Mr. Mellencamp's tour and at recording sessions, using another vintage technology: Super 8.)
At Radio City Mr. Mellencamp changed his backup from song to song, juggling small groups and the full band. Sometimes he was alone with an acoustic guitar, strumming through ''Small Town'' with the audience shouting along, or he was joined by Miriam Sturm on violin and Troye Kinnett on accordion. Mike Wanchic, Mr. Mellencamp's rhythm guitarist for 35 years, doubled on mandolin.
Certain older songs were recast as rockabilly, with a swing beat from Dane Clark on a stand-up drum kit, John Gunnell slapping a bass, and twangy lead guitar from Andrew York. ''Jack & Diane'' got a countrified beat, and Mr. Mellencamp sang ''Cherry Bomb'' a cappella. Meanwhile some of the bare-bones songs from ''No Better Than This'' got fleshed out, like ''The West End,'' a chronicle of urban decay that became a dark drone, and ''No One Cares About Me,'' a litany of bitter isolation and stubborn optimism that took on a jaunty bounce.
As the concert ended, Mr. Mellencamp stopped jovially dodging his past. His band's Hoosier power chords were back for ''Pink Houses'' and ''R.O.C.K. in the U.S.A.,'' played in their old hit style. Still a populist, Mr. Mellencamp gave people what they wanted once he had his say.
John Mellencamp plays the Academy of Music in Philadelphia on Monday and the Landmark Theater in Richmond, Va., on Thursday; mellencamp.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Mellencamp during his show at Radio City Music Hall on Friday, with Dane Clark on drums. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (51%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



559 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: A Century Later, the Roll of the Dead In a Factory Fire Now Has All 146 Names

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
In the Cemetery of the Evergreens on the border of Brooklyn and Queens, there is a haunting stone monument to the garment workers who died in the Triangle shirtwaist factory fire of 1911 but were never identified. It contains the bas-relief figure of a kneeling woman, her head bowed, seemingly mourning not only the deaths, but also the fact that those buried below were so badly charred that relatives could not recognize them.
Almost a century after the fire, the five women and one man, all buried in coffins under the Evergreens monument, remained unknown to the public at large, though relatives and descendants knew that a loved one had never returned from the burning blouse factory.
Now those six have been identified, largely through the persistence of a researcher, Michael Hirsch, who became obsessed with learning all he could about the victims after he discovered that one of those killed, Lizzie Adler, a 24-year-old greenhorn from Romania, had lived on his block in the East Village. 
And so, for the first time, at the centennial commemoration of the fire on March 25 outside the building in Greenwich Village where the Triangle Waist Company occupied the eighth, ninth and 10th floors, the names of all 146 dead will finally be read.
The fire was a wrenching event in New York's history, one that had a profound influence on building codes, labor laws, politics and the beginning of the New Deal two decades later.
Among the most anguishing aspects was the memory of the more than 50 young immigrant women and men who were forced to leap from the high floors to escape the inferno. However, many of the 146 victims -- 129 women and 17 men -- burned to death in the loft building, at Washington Place and Greene Street, and had no telltale jewelry or clothing to help identify them.
The day the six unidentified victims were buried was the culmination of the city's outpouring of grief; hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers turned out in a driving rain for a symbolic funeral procession sponsored by labor unions and other organizations, while hundreds of thousands more watched from the sidewalks.
A century later, names and even circumstances have finally been attached to those ''unknowns.''
''We consider his list to be the best ever produced on the question,'' said Curtis Lyons, director of the Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation and Archives at Cornell University, which holds one of the most thorough repositories about the Triangle fire.
Workers United, the garment workers' union, and David Von Drehle, who wrote ''Triangle: The Fire That Changed America,'' a 2003 history of the fire, said they also regarded Mr. Hirsch's list as the most authoritative.
Descendants of those who perished, like a great-granddaughter of one 33-year-old victim, Maria Lauletti, were heartened by the news, though no one interviewed had yet made a decision whether to exhume bodies from the Evergreens cemetery and attempt a DNA match.
''It means that there's recognition that she actually died in the fire,'' said Mary Ann Lauletti Hacker, 57, of Fountain Hills, Ariz. ''To me, that's a finality. She positively can be part of the record of those who died.''
No New York City agencies and no newspapers at the time produced a complete list of the dead, Mr. Hirsch said. The most thorough list -- 140 names -- was compiled by Mr. Von Drehle when he wrote his book, and that was largely based on names plucked from accounts in four contemporary newspapers.
The obscurity of their names is evidence of the times, when lives were lived quietly and people were forced by economic and familial circumstances to swiftly move on from tragedies -- with no Facebook or reality television cameras to record their every step and thought.
Mr. Hirsch, 50, an amateur genealogist and historian who was hired as a co-producer of the coming HBO documentary ''Triangle: Remembering the Fire,'' undertook an exhaustive search lasting more than four years. He returned to the microfilms of mainstream daily newspapers overlooked by researchers before him and to ethnic publications that he asked to have translated, like the Yiddish-language Jewish Daily Forward and Il Giornale Italiano. He estimates that he consulted 32 different newspapers.
He looked for articles about people who, in the weeks after the fire, claimed that their relatives were still missing. He then matched what he discovered with census records, death and burial certificates, marriage licenses, and reports kept by unions and charities about funeral and ''relief'' payments made to the families of the dead. Lastly, he sought out the descendants of three of the unidentified to confirm that the names he found were still mourned as Triangle victims.
''I'm passionate about the history of this neighborhood,'' Mr. Hirsch said of the combined Lower East Side and East Village, where most of the workers had lived. ''From my window, I can see the stairs that Lizzie Adler had probably walked down to go to the factory the day of the fire.''
Typical of his illuminating morsels was an article in the Forward asking if anyone had seen Max Florin, a 23-year-old immigrant from Russia and one of the six unidentified victims. ''We believe that he survived the fire, but from great fear and being upset he went mad and is wandering the streets,'' the article said, in Mr. Hirsch's rough paraphrasing. ''He is of average height and was wearing a black suit.''
Mr. Hirsch began his quest modestly by trying to confirm existing lists. He found that they contained misspelled names, names of those who had actually survived and of those who had not worked at the factory. He was not surprised, given the bureaucratic fumbling and hurried journalism that often follows tumultuous disasters.
He also learned that a name of one identified victim had been omitted. He found an article bypassed by earlier compilers in The New York Times from March 31, 1911, about someone named Jacob Dashefsky, who had come forward six days after the fire to say that his sister Bessie, 25, a Russian immigrant, had not returned home. Her body was identified through dental records and barely missed being buried at the funeral for the unidentified on April 5, 1911. That finding convinced him that there were others who had been omitted for similar reasons.
Mr. Hirsch visited the graves of each of the known victims, who had been buried in 16 cemeteries, to further ensure a comprehensive list. At Calvary Cemetery in Woodside, Queens, he came across what he called ''my Rosetta Stone.''
He was looking for the monument for Isabella Tortorelli, 17, but instead found a family monument whose Italian inscription spoke of ''due sorelle'' -- two sisters -- who perished in the fire. Mr. Hirsch had never seen the name of Isabella's older sister, Maria Giuseppa Lauletti, on any list before. He checked with the Calvary office and was told that her body was not in the grave.
He located her granddaughter, Mrs. Hacker, in Arizona, who told him that the family had never been able to single out Ms. Lauletti's body among the unidentified bodies, suggesting that she was probably buried at Evergreens. She also informed him that Ms. Lauletti had been an immigrant from Sicily and the mother of five children, four of whom were put in an orphanage after the fire.
On his own, Mr. Hirsch found a 1912 report by the Red Cross that sought to protect the anonymity of the families receiving cash payments but whose details matched that of Ms. Lauletti. It also revealed that the mother of ''Number 85,'' as Ms. Lauletti had been identified, was ''almost crazed with grief'' and ''did nothing but moan and weep for weeks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Max Florin, Fannie Rosen, Dora Evans and Josephine Cammarata were among the final six unidentified victims of the Triangle Waist Company fire of 1911, which killed 146 people and influenced building codes, labor laws and politics in the years that followed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO)
Michael Hirsch, an amateur genealogist and historian, helped attach names to the six ''unknowns.'' (A13)
 Michael Hirsch visiting the grave of the six 1911 factory fire victims whom he worked to identify. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY FIRES (91%); APPAREL MFG (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); BURN INJURIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FIRES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORY (76%); IMMIGRATION (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



560 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: 30 Years of Deficit Talk, But Little to Show for It

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Is it really different this time?
That's what Republican political strategists are asking as party leaders and presidential prospects keep raising the bar in their quest to curb government deficits. As thrilling as that process feels for Tea Party members and conservative intellectuals, its merit as an electoral formula remains unproven at best.
Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee, set the tone when he warned of fiscal catastrophe in his response to President Obama's State of the Union address. Govs. Mitch Daniels of Indiana and Chris Christie of New Jersey have grown progressively more blunt in calling for big changes to Medicare and Social Security. 
Now Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin has seized the spotlight with his showdown with state workers - a made-for-cable spectacle at the dawning of a new presidential race that has galvanized Republican budget hawks and unions allied with Democrats.
''That's how the race is going to evolve,'' said Scott Reed, who managed Senator Robert Dole's campaign for the White House in 1996. ''It's going to be the serious and the unserious.''
That increases pressure on Republican presidential contenders to match bracing specifics from the likes of Governor Christie, who last week unequivocally embraced an increase in the Social Security retirement age. But shadowing such discussions are the setbacks that befell President Ronald Reagan, former Speaker Newt Gingrich and President George W. Bush when they attempted similar bold moves.
It is one thing to acknowledge that the entitlement programs Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid drive the nation's long-term deficit. It is another to win a national election while pledging to scale them back.
''It's not the third rail,'' cautioned Ken Khachigian, a speechwriter for Mr. Reagan, ''until you touch it.''
Lessons of 1980
Every presidential campaign has its own distinct backdrop. Four years ago, the contest began after midterm elections that were dominated by the Iraq war.
In early 1999, the economy was booming and the federal government had just recorded its first budget surplus in three decades. George W. Bush, then governor of Texas, assumed the good times would continue in calling for ''prosperity with a purpose.''
In early 2011, high unemployment and enormous budget deficits have Republicans warning of national decline, as they did during Jimmy Carter's presidency.
''I would compare it somewhat to 1980,'' Mr. Khachigian said. If the analogy holds, Republican candidates will use fiscal issues to compete for the mantle of bold conservative leadership that Mr. Reagan captured.
But another lesson of 1980 is that unexpected events can rapidly shift the agenda. Nine days before Mr. Reagan announced his candidacy in November 1979, Iranian revolutionaries seized American diplomats in Tehran - the start of the hostage crisis that became a major factor in that race.
Moreover, the primary calendar may shape the campaign's dialogue in unexpected ways. ''Social conservatives still drive the bus in Iowa,'' Mr. Reed noted.
That may explain one little-noticed recent line from Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi that established a contrast with Mr. Daniels's call for a ''truce'' on social issues in deference to fiscal and economic challenges.
''A lot of people think while Republican governors were attacking fiscal issues we were ignoring social issues - that's not right,'' Mr. Barbour told the Conservative Political Action Conference. Highlighting ''my pro-life agenda,'' he invoked an anti-abortion group's declaration that Mississippi is ''the safest state in America for an unborn child.''
Entitlement Debate
What is sometimes forgotten about Mr. Reagan as a candidate is that he only carried tough talk so far about cutting spending.
''This does not mean sacrificing essential services; nor do we need to destroy the system of benefits which flow to the poor, the elderly, the sick and the handicapped,'' he said in announcing his 1980 campaign.
It was only after he won the presidency that Mr. Reagan's administration proposed cuts in Social Security. The president quickly backed off, but the Republicans still suffered a backlash in the 1982 Congressional elections.
Voters also punished them when Mr. Gingrich, against the advice of campaign strategists, sought to curb Medicare spending in 1995. His struggles over the issue helped President Bill Clinton win re-election the following year - and persuaded Congressional Republicans in 2005 to bury President George W. Bush's proposal for a partial privatization of Social Security.
With renewed zeal, House Republican leaders now pledge that the budget Mr. Ryan is working on will tackle entitlement spending. And that has campaign strategists worried once again.
''There's a difference between saying public employee unions have to take cuts, and attacking programs like Social Security and Medicare,'' said Tom Rath, an influential New Hampshire Republican. Mr. Rath's preferred presidential candidate, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, steered clear of the entitlement debate in his CPAC speech.
''Chris Christie was pretty brave,'' Mr. Khachigian said. ''But it's pretty clear he's not running for president.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); MEDICARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); IRAQ WAR (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); MEDICAID (57%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); SCOTT WALKER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (71%) TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



561 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Calls for Protests in China Draw Government Attention

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Zhang Jing, Jon Kaiman and Jonathan Ansfield contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Skittish domestic security officials responded with a mass show of force across China on Sunday after anonymous calls for protesters to stage a Chinese ''Jasmine Revolution'' went out over social media and microblogging outlets.
Although there were no reports of large demonstrations, the outsize government response highlighted China's nervousness at a time of spreading unrest in the Middle East aimed at overthrowing authoritarian governments. 
The words ''Jasmine Revolution,'' borrowed from the successful Tunisian revolt, were blocked on sites similar to Twitter and on Internet search engines, while cellphone users were unable to send out text messages to multiple recipients. A heavy police presence was reported in several Chinese cities.
In recent days, more than a dozen lawyers and rights activists have been rounded up, and more than 80 dissidents have reportedly been placed under varying forms of house arrest. At least two lawyers are still missing, family members and human rights advocates said Sunday.
In Beijing, a huge crowd formed outside a McDonald's in the heart of the capital on Sunday after messages went out listing it as one of 13 protest sites across the country. It is not clear who organized the campaign, but it first appeared Thursday on Boxun, a Chinese-language Web site based in the United States, and then spread through Twitter and other microblogging services.
By 2 p.m., the planned start of the protests, hundreds of police officers had swarmed the area, a major shopping district popular with tourists.
At one point, the police surrounded a young man who had placed a jasmine flower on a planter outside the McDonald's, but he was released after the clamor drew journalists and photographers.
In Shanghai, three people were detained during a skirmish in front of a Starbucks, The Associated Press reported. One post on Twitter described a heavily armed police presence on the subways of Shenzhen, and another claimed that officials at Peking University in Beijing had urged students to avoid any protests, but those reports were impossible to verify Sunday.
The messages calling people to action urged protesters to shout, ''We want food, we want work, we want housing, we want fairness,'' an ostensible effort to tap into popular discontent over inflation and soaring real estate prices.
In a sign of the ruling Communist Party's growing anxiety, President Hu Jintao summoned top leaders to a special ''study session'' on Saturday and urged them to address festering social problems before they became threats to stability.
''The overall requirements for enhancing and innovating social management are to stimulate vitality in the society and increase harmonious elements to the greatest extent, while reducing inharmonious factors to the minimum,'' he told the gathering, according to Xinhua, the official news agency. Mr. Hu also urged those gathered to step up Internet controls and to better ''guide public opinion,'' a reference to efforts aimed at shaping attitudes toward the government through traditional propaganda and online commentators who masquerade as ordinary users.
Human rights advocates said they were especially concerned by the recent crackdown on rights defenders, which intensified Saturday after at least 15 well-known lawyers and activists were detained or placed under house arrest. Several of them reached by phone, including Pu Zhiqiang and Xu Zhiyong, said they were in the company of security agents and unable to talk, while many others were unreachable on Sunday evening. Two of the men, Tang Jitian and Jiang Tianyong, remain missing.
Many of those subjected to house arrest had met in Beijing on Wednesday to discuss the case of Chen Guangcheng, a blind lawyer under strict house arrest in rural Shandong Province. The plight of Mr. Chen and his family gained widespread attention last week after a video he and his wife made about his arrest emerged on the Internet.
Mr. Jiang, one of the missing lawyers, was forced into an unmarked van on Saturday night, his second abduction in recent days, his wife, Jin Bianling, said by telephone. She said the police had also searched the couple's home and confiscated his computer and briefcase.
In an interview after his first detention on Wednesday, Mr. Jiang said that he was taken to a police station and assaulted.
Most of those who thronged the McDonald's in Wangfujing, the Beijing shopping district, said they had no idea what the commotion was about. Some thought that perhaps a celebrity had slipped into the restaurant for a hamburger. But a young man, a Web page designer in his late 20s, quietly acknowledged that he was drawn by word of the protest.
Despite the absence of any real action, the man, who gave only his family name, Cui, said he was not disappointed by the outcome, in which police officers tried in vain to determine who was a potential troublemaker and who was simply a gawker. He predicted that many people, emboldened by the fact that an impromptu gathering had coalesced at all, would use social networking technology to stage similar events in the future.
''It's very difficult to do this in China, but this is a good start,'' he said. ''I'm thankful to be able to participate in this moment in history.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man, center, was detained by the police near a planned protest site in Shanghai on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); TEXT MESSAGING (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); WEB SITES (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); ARRESTS (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



562 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: U.S. 'Gravely Concerned' Over Violence in Libya

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Sunday condemned Libya's use of lethal force against peaceful demonstrators, pointing to what it said were ''multiple credible'' reports that ''hundreds of people'' had been killed and injured in several days of unrest.
In the administration's strongest statement on the escalating violence in Libya, the State Department said that it was ''gravely concerned'' about the reports and that the number of deaths was unknown because of a lack of access to many parts of the country by news organizations and human rights groups. 
Philip J. Crowley, the State Department spokesman, said that the United States has raised ''strong objections about the use of lethal force'' with several senior Libyan officials, including Musa Kusa, the foreign minister.
''Libyan officials have stated their commitment to protecting and safeguarding the right of peaceful protest,'' Mr. Crowley said in a statement. ''We call upon the Libyan government to uphold that commitment and hold accountable any security officer who does not act in accordance with that commitment.''
The impact of the administration's sharp criticism of Libya's firing on demonstrators was unclear, and stood in contrast to how President Obama's strong criticism of the use of force by security forces in Bahrain appeared to have pressured its government to withdraw police officers and troops from the main square of that country's capital, Manama.
On Friday night, Mr. Obama spoke to King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa of Bahrain, leaning on the government to show restraint, especially against peaceful protesters, and pressing for meaningful reform. The next day, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, telephoned the crown prince, Sheik Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, to underscore Mr. Obama's message. Mr. Donilon praised the prince's orders earlier in the day to withdraw security forces.
Administration officials said Sunday that the tough line with Bahrain, home of the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet and the center of American efforts to contain Iran, had been effective. ''We've been very clear with our partners in Bahrain that they ought to exercise restraint, that there is no place for violence against peaceful protesters there or anywhere else, and we've condemned that violence,'' Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC.
As it did with Iran and Egypt, the administration has responded in different ways to the embattled governments in Libya and Bahrain. ''Each of these countries is different,'' Ms. Rice said. ''Each of these circumstances will be decided by the people of those countries. We are not pushing people out or dictating that they stay.
''What we're doing is saying, consistently across the board they are universal human rights that need to be respected.''
Senator Lindsey Graham, an influential Republican from South Carolina, offered support on Sunday for the administration's dual approaches. ''We should have a policy of urging old friends to do better and replacing old enemies,'' Mr. Graham said on ''Meet the Press.''
''I'd like to see regime change in Libya,'' he said. ''I'd like to see regime change in Iran. I think we need to be tougher on companies that do business with Iran. But, generally speaking, the administration, I think, has handled Egypt well and is trying to stay ahead of this when it comes to Jordan, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.''
Meanwhile, Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, arrived in Saudi Arabia on Sunday for a previously scheduled weeklong trip to the Persian Gulf region. His scheduled stops also include Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and, possibly, Bahrain.
Capt. John Kirby, his spokesman, said in a statement that Admiral Mullen would meet with his counterparts in each country and would ''make clear his desire to see that peaceful protest be allowed to continue without threats or violence from any quarter and that restraint is shown by all sides in these disputes.''
Middle East security experts say the United States has greater influence over allies like Bahrain than countries with which relations are more strained, including Libya, even though full diplomatic ties were restored in 2009.
In Bahrain's case, the administration is also balancing the interests of Saudi Arabia, another monarchy, which is connected to Bahrain by a causeway. Senior Saudi officials have expressed displeasure that Mr. Obama has allowed the protests to continue, and even grow, by espousing political and economic reforms in the region.
Throughout the region, Ms. Rice said, ''there are conditions that are inherently unstable -- a youth bulge, high unemployment, a lack of political openness -- and we have pressed publicly and privately for the kind of change that is necessary.''
Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the ranking Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, said that in most of those countries, an aging autocratic leadership was confronting the realities of a youthful population eager for social and economic changes and connected by social networks that were not broadly in use even a few years ago.
''They know they are not getting their fair share, that life is not going to be good for them,'' Mr. Lugar said Sunday on ''State of the Union'' on CNN. ''As a result, given hunger problems, other economic difficulties, they have come to the fore.''
Mr. Lugar continued, ''The question is, will, as in the case of the Libyans, the protesters simply be shot?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); NAVIES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SUSAN RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); BAHRAIN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011



563 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting the Value of Elite Colleges

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A large new study looks at whether elite colleges give their graduates an earnings advantage -- and finds that, for most students, the answer is no.

 BODY:
A decade ago, two economists -- Stacy Dale and Alan Krueger -- published a research paper arguing that elite colleges did not seem to give most graduates an earnings boost. As you might expect, the paper received a ton of attention. Ms. Dale and Mr. Krueger have just finished a new version of the study -- with vastly more and better data, covering people into their 40s and 50s, as well as looking at a set of more recent college graduates -- and the new version comes to the same conclusion.
Given how counterintuitive that conclusion is and, that some other economists have been skeptical of it, I want to devote a post to the new paper.
The starting point is the obvious fact that graduates of elite colleges make more money than graduates of less elite colleges. This pattern holds even when you control for the SAT scores and grades of graduates. By themselves, these patterns seem to suggest that the college is a major reason for the earnings difference.
But Ms. Dale -- an economist at Mathematica, a research firm -- and Mr. Krueger -- a Princeton economist and former contributor to this blog -- added a new variable in their research. They also controlled for the colleges that students applied to and were accepted by. 
Doing so allowed them to capture much more information about the students than SAT scores and grades do. Someone who applies to Duke, Williams or Yale may be signaling that he or she is more confident and ambitious than someone with similar scores and grades who does not apply. Someone who is accepted by a highly selective school may have other skills that their scores didn't pick up, but that the admissions officers noticed.Once the two economists added these new variables, the earnings difference disappeared. In fact, it went away merely by including the colleges that students had applied to -- and not taking into account whether they were accepted. A student with a 1,400 SAT score who went to Penn State but applied to Penn earned as much, on average, as a student with a 1,400 who went to Penn. 
"Even applying to a school, even if you get rejected, says a lot about you," Mr. Krueger told me. He points out that the average SAT score at the most selective college students apply to turns out to be a better predictor of their earnings than the average SAT score at the college they attended. (The study measured a college's selectivity by the average SAT score of admitted students as well as by a selectivity score that the publisher Barron's gives to colleges.)
It's important to note, though, that a few major groups did not fit the pattern: black students, Latino students, low-income students and students whose parents did not graduate from college. "For them, attending a more selective school increased earnings significantly," Mr. Krueger has written. Why? Perhaps they benefit from professional connections they would not otherwise have. Perhaps they acquire habits or skills that middle-class and affluent students have already acquired in high school or at home.
This finding is especially noteworthy because the new study included several historically black colleges, like Howard, Morehouse and Spelman, which are not as selective as Penn, Williams or other elite colleges. Students who choose a historically black college over an elite college may be hurting their future earnings potential.
The original paper looked at a fairly narrow slice of data: the 1995 self-reported earnings of students who had been freshmen in 1976. The new version uses Social Security records, which offer a more reliable look at earnings over a longer period of time. The new paper also looks at students who had been freshmen in 1989 and follows their earnings through the middle part of the last decade. In all, the paper covers about 19,000 college graduates. 
From my perspective, the main limitation of the paper is that even its less elite colleges, like Penn State, are relatively elite. (A full list of the colleges whose graduates were part of the study appears below.) That doesn't call into question the findings of the paper. It's still deeply surprising that choosing to go to, say, Xavier instead of Columbia may not affect your future earnings.
But it would be nice if future research looked in detail at other parts of the college market. Another large study, for instance, has found that students who attend colleges with lower graduation rates are less likely to graduate -- which does indeed have a huge effect on their earnings. I'd also be curious to know what happens to students who try to save money by first attending community college, with plans to transfer later, even though they were admitted to a four-year college.
Of course, it would also be nice if researchers could one day analyze careers by a metric other than income. The recent spread of happiness surveys could eventually allow economists to study the connection between education and career satisfaction.
Mr. Krueger gets the last word:My advice to students: Don't believe that the only school worth attending is one that would not admit you. That you go to college is more important than where you go. Find a school whose academic strengths match your interests and that devotes resources to instruction in those fields. Recognize that your own motivation, ambition and talents will determine your success more than the college name on your diploma.
My advice to elite colleges: Recognize that the most disadvantaged students benefit most from your instruction. Set financial aid and admission policies accordingly.And as promised, here are the lists of colleges taking part in the new study:1976 surveyBarnard College, Bryn Mawr College, Columbia University, Duke University, Emory University, Georgetown University, Miami University, Morehouse College, Northwestern University, Oberlin College, Penn State University, Princeton University, Smith College, Stanford University, Swarthmore College, Tufts University, Tulane University, University of Michigan, University of Notre Dame, University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt University, Washington University, Wellesley College, Wesleyan University, Williams College, Xavier University, Yale University, 
1989 surveyBryn Mawr College, Duke University, Georgetown University, Miami University of Ohio, Morehouse College, Oberlin College Penn State University, Princeton University, Stanford University, University of Michigan, University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt University, Washington University, Wellesley College, Wesleyan University, Williams College, Xavier University, and Yale University.

        
 Why College Brings a Huge Return
        
Struggling College Graduates
        
The Return of the Blue-Collar Downturn
        
Cutting Pell Grants
        
Once Again: Is College Worth It? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%) Alan Krueger; College; elite colleges; higher education; is college worth it; Stacy Dale; Dale, Stacy; Krueger, Alan B; Colleges and Universities; Wages and Salaries; Economix

PERSON: Dale, Stacy; Krueger, Alan B

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



564 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: In Yemen, Leader Says He'll Talk, But Not Quit

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF and J. DAVID GOODMAN; Laura Kasinof reported from Sana, and J. David Goodman from New York.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- President Ali Abdullah Saleh, looking shaken at a news conference here on Monday, said he would not give in to the demands of protesters who have sought his ouster during 10 days of sustained demonstrations around Yemen.
''Why do they want to return to chaos?'' he said, offering instead to sit down with the protesters and discuss political reforms, rather than abandon his three decades of authoritarian rule. 
Mr. Saleh's embattled government has faced street demonstrations both from organized opposition parties, who have extracted concessions but have demanded further reforms, and from young protesters seeking to emulate the revolutions that toppled the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia.
Those two groups appear to be drawing closer. The Joint Meeting Parties, an umbrella group of opposition parties, said in a statement that it would ''unite with the young protesters,'' strongly condemning the ''murder and acts of repression and terrorism suffered by young people and activists at the hands of the authorities.''
The statement was the most explicit support of the young offered yet by the more established opposition, which quickly dismissed Mr. Saleh's offer of dialogue as insincere.
The opposition parties have said that they will agree to talks only if they include leaders from the southern separatist movement, a demand that Mr. Saleh has so far not addressed.
Ten ruling party members of Parliament resigned in protest on Sunday because of the violence, according to Abdel Aziz Jabari, one of the members who gave up power.
''We present our resignations in protest over what is happening in the Yemeni arena,'' Mr. Jabari said in an interview, ''and over not holding the corrupt ones accountable and out of the necessity to respect the law and the Constitution.''
Mr. Saleh, an American ally in the fight against the Yemeni branch of Al Qaeda, called the demonstrations against his government a provocation, accusing the opposition of being beholden to foreign influence.
''The arbiter is the people and not the American Embassy, the United States or the E.U.,'' Mr. Saleh said in his speech, referring to the European Union, The Associated Press reported.
The State Department has condemned attacks against protesters by government supporters in Yemen.
Events over the weekend raised the specter of increased violence and tribal conflicts. Government supporters dressed in plain clothes opened fire on antigovernment protesters in front of Sana University on Saturday, wounding four. On Sunday, thousands gathered in support of Mr. Saleh on the outskirts of Sana, the capital, for a rally organized by the ruling party. Mr. Saleh later addressed the crowd.
At least 11 people have been killed in protests this month, medical officials told The Associated Press.
In Sana, more than a thousand students have camped out near the university since Sunday morning, in a conscious echo of the Egyptian protests in Cairo's central Tahrir Square. Their encampment appeared well organized, with medical tents, people collecting garbage and even civilian-run checkpoints around the perimeter.
Protesters have vowed to stay there until Mr. Saleh steps down. Non-students, including tribesmen from outside Sana, have joined the protest as well.
''I need my country back,'' said Mohamed al-Barati, who arrived in the capital on Monday from impoverished Al Jawf Province in northern Yemen. ''I want to see my people happy. Now we are poor in Al Jawf and we don't have any freedoms.'' Mr. Batari said he would stay until Mr. Saleh left.
In the city of Taiz, 130 miles south of the Yemeni capital, thousands have been staging a similar overnight protest since the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, stepped down 10 days ago.
Mr. Saleh's authoritarian rule began in 1978. He has promised not to run again -- and also that his son will not run -- when his term expires in 2013.
In the restive south, violent protests continued to shake the city of Aden on Monday, a day after one of the most prominent southern separatists, Hassan Baoum, was arrested. There are reports that two protesters were killed by gunfire from security forces in Aden, but those could not be independently confirmed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yemeni protesters shouted slogans during a demonstration, demanding the resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, on Monday in Sana. Mr. Saleh, left, spoke at a news conference. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 KHALED ABDULLAH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); AL-QAEDA (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); MURDER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (76%) YEMEN (97%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



565 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
VIEWING OF PROTESTS LEADS
To Arrests in Zimbabwe
Dozens of students, trade unionists and political activists who gathered to watch Al Jazeera and BBC news reports on the uprisings that brought down autocrats in Tunisia and Egypt have been arrested on suspicion of plotting to oust President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. PAGE A4
OIL COMPANIES LEAVE LIBYA 
Global oil companies said they were making plans to evacuate employees in Libya after some operations there were disrupted by political unrest. Libya holds the largest crude oil reserves in Africa, and the moves drove some stock prices down and a crucial oil benchmark to a three-year high. PAGE A10
SUDAN LEADER WON'T RUN
President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan, who has ruled for 20 years and faces international charges of genocide, will not run for office again after his current term ends in four years, a government spokesman said. PAGE A4
YEMENI LEADER VOWS TO STAY
President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen said he would not give in to the demands of protesters who have sought his ouster during 10 days of sustained demonstrations around the country. PAGE A12
National
WISCONSIN G.O.P. PLANS
To Resume Work
With the capital braced for another week of protests and deadlock over a budget bill that would severely restrict public employees' unions, the top Republican in the State Senate announced that the body would resume consideration of other matters. The move seemed intended to increase discomfort of Democratic lawmakers who have fled the capital to prevent a vote on the union legislation. PAGE A16
REVIEW LEADS TO LIBEL CASE
No author enjoys a negative review. But one author was more creative in the expression of her anger toward a review of her book: she lodged a criminal complaint in a country with almost no connection to the book or the review. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A14
New York
SCHOOL USES TECHNOLOGY
To Teach Disabled Students
Henry Viscardi School is one of several private schools in New York that enroll severely disabled children, using technology and on-site medical care to keep its students, some of whom are incapable of speech or even movement, in the classroom. Its 185 students, in prekindergarten through 12th grade, come from all over the New York region, some arriving daily by ambulance. PAGE A21
Business
DEAL WITH FARMERS HELPS PEPSICO AND A REGION
As part of a novel venture, PepsiCo will no longer buy the crops grown by Mexican farmers from middlemen but from the farmers themselves. The deal guarantees the price it will pay for their crops upfront, and reflects a relatively new approach by corporations trying to maintain a business edge while helping out small communities and farmers. PAGE B1
BP LOOKS TO INDIA
The British oil giant BP said on that it would pay $7.2 billion to buy into India's fast-growing oil and gas industry. It is BP's second big deal in two months, as it seeks to rebuild after last year's Gulf of Mexico oil spill. PAGE B1
JAPAN'S ATTRACTIVE MARKET
Japan's government finances are on the verge of collapse, and its economy has floundered for two decades. But global investors are flocking to its stock market because of the fire-sale prices for what many think are undervalued companies. If one of those companies was dismantled and sold off for its parts, it would fetch more than its market value. PAGE B1
BLAZING INTERNET, EVEN FASTER
South Korea already claims the world's fastest Internet connections by far. But by the end of 2012, South Korea intends to connect every home in the country to the Internet at one gigabit a second. That would be a tenfold increase from the already blazing national standard and more than 200 times as fast as the average household setup in the United States. PAGE B3
Sports
N.F.L. TALKS CONTINUE
As Labor Deadline Nears
Negotiators for N.F.L. owners and the players' union met for the fourth consecutive day in the presence of a mediator, with just 11 days to go until the collective bargaining agreement is set to expire. While nobody is talking about what is being said behind closed doors, the sides have spent more than 25 hours together, by far their most consistent negotiating time toward a deal. PAGE B12
Arts
PUTTING A FRENCH TWIST
On Stanley Kowalski
When Paris's famed Comedie-Francaise chose the first American play it would perform in its 330 years, producers promised a fresh French approach to Tennessee Williams's ''Streetcar Named Desire.'' The result, ''Un Tramway Nomme Desir,'' is part of an effort to raise the troupe's international profile and find new sources of revenue and attendance as the state cuts back on cultural spending. PAGE C1
CATALOGING THE PAST
Thomas Allen Harris, a documentary filmmaker, has traveled the country collecting photographs and stories from black families, then putting those and filmed interviews as part of his Digital Diaspora Family Reunion project. The project is headed to the stage, presenting collected stories to a live audience using interactive media and old-fashioned storytelling. PAGE C1
Science Times
STUDYING AGING,
And Fearing Cuts
Dr. Richard J. Hodes presides over the nation's prime source of grants for studies of aging at a worrisome time for researchers. Just when the cohort of elderly Americans is surging, many scientists fear that government cuts may hamper a broad array of research efforts on Alzheimer's and other diseases of aging. PAGE D5
REAGAN AND ALZHEIMER'S
Ron Reagan's new memoir, ''My Father at 100,'' gained headlines with its suggestion that President Ronald Reagan might have begun showing hints of Alzheimer's disease while still president. But he has since clarified that he meant the amyloid plaque characteristic of Alzheimer's can start forming years before it leads to dementia. Lawrence K. Altman, The Doctor's World. PAGE D1
Obituaries
GEORGE BUGLIARELLO, 83
The former president of Polytechnic Institute of New York, he spearheaded the creation of Metrotech Center, a 16-acre research park for business and education that spurred development in downtown Brooklyn. PAGE b14
ROY GUSSOW, 92
His abstract sculptures -- polished stainless-steel works with swooping contours -- gleam in public squares and corporate spaces in more than a dozen cities. PAGE B14
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25
BOB HERBERT PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%); CHILDREN (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (61%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (84%); PEPSICO INC (51%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (84%); BP (LSE) (84%); PEP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) ZIMBABWE (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); YEMEN (92%); INDIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); SUDAN (92%); TUNISIA (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



566 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Worldwide Fall and Oil Spikes on Unrest in Libya

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
The rising political turmoil in Libya sent jitters through global financial markets, with European shares falling on Monday and Asian markets starting out sharply lower on Tuesday.
While investors in the United States have so far ridden out the tumult in the Middle East, analysts said that they would have a harder time shrugging off the upheaval as it spread throughout the Middle East and North Africa. A spike in oil prices on Monday was particularly worrisome, they said, because it could snuff out the nascent worldwide economic recovery.
That was the main reason European stocks dropped more than a percentage point on Monday. At midday on Tuesday, the Nikkei 225 was down 2 percent and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong also fell 2 percent. Markets in the United States were closed Monday for Presidents' Day. 
''Over the past few weeks, we had a domino effect, and the concern is that anything can happen,'' said Justin Urquhart Stewart, co-founder of Seven Investment Management in London. ''At the moment the ripple is very small, but it has the potential to turn into something bigger quickly.''
Other analysts said the unrest had not yet unnerved American investors. Crucial United States stock indexes have steadily risen in 2011 to levels not seen since the financial crisis started, and those gains could continue this week, analysts said.
Still, the problems abroad are becoming harder to overlook. After the toppling of leaders in Egypt and Tunisia, antigovernment protesters in Yemen and Libya are seeking to oust their leaders. Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's government in Libya on Monday struck back at dissenters, using warplanes and militiamen to fire on protesters.
Market stability in the United States and abroad depends on the price of oil leveling off, which seems unlikely given all the turmoil.
Western countries fear being cut off from the oil supply in Libya, which exports about 1.5 million barrels of oil a day, making it one of Africa's largest holders of crude oil reserves. There was ample reason for concern, as oil companies -- including Eni of Italy, the largest energy producer in Libya -- began to evacuate employees.
In turn, oil prices soared. Brent crude, a global benchmark for oil that trades in London, jumped more than 2 percent to above $105 a barrel. The price was almost a three-year high. As the crisis in Egypt dragged on in late January, the benchmark rose above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2008.
If the world is, in fact, cut off from Libyan oil, prices are likely to rise even higher. The problem could ultimately hit American consumers at the gas pump.
''The U.S. is not immune from this,'' Mr. Urquhart Stewart said. ''If you see a significant rise in the oil price for a long period, that could easily choke off any U.S. recovery that is still weak.''
Yet even if Libyan oil exports were shut down, larger oil producers like Saudi Arabia have enough spare capacity to keep prices from skyrocketing.
In hopes of finding a solution to price fluctuations, Saudi Arabia is holding a meeting on Tuesday for energy officials from more than 90 nations, including the United States.
''History shows that political turmoil in a country does not necessarily mean that the flow of oil will be impacted,'' said a research note published by JPMorgan Chase on Monday.
Analysts also said that American investors did not panic when Egypt was on the brink of collapse for several days.
In the United States, light sweet crude oil futures rose more than 5 percent, to $91.42 a barrel. Another important American benchmark, West Texas Intermediate, closed at $86.20 a barrel on Friday. Gold prices rose above $1,400 an ounce, also as a result of the unrest.
''There's reason to get spooked on oil, and U.S. investors aren't doing it yet,'' said Howard Silverblatt, a senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. Instead, he said, American investors have been focusing on strong earnings reports and encouraging sales figures from retailers and other major companies in the United States. ''We've done well and it looks like that's going to continue,'' he said.
European investors, on the other hand, showed signs of impatience on Monday. Shares of European companies dropped, amid the turmoil in the Middle East and some disappointing earnings reports from European companies.
The DAX, a German stock market index, closed down 1.44 percent, at 7,321.81. The FTSE Eurofirst 300, an index that includes some of Europe's largest companies, slid 1.32 percent to 1,171.41. On Tuesday, markets in Australia, Taiwan, Singapore and mainland China also retreated.
Thomas Lee, chief United States equity strategist at JPMorgan, remained optimistic that American investors would not panic. ''U.S equity markets have taken this in stride,'' he said. ''It's not going to be that bad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An oil pump in Bahrain. Market stability depends on the price of oil leveling off. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL WEYMOUTH/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (91%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



567 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: When Business Is Good

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
SAN GABRIEL, Mexico -- In the past, farmers would make the dangerous trek north from this tiny town hidden in the rugged folds of the Jalisco mountain range to the United States, hoping to earn enough money doing odd jobs to cover debts incurred while cultivating the small plots of land that have been in their families for generations.
But more recently, many have managed to avoid the trips, staying home as the result of a new venture with PepsiCo, which buys their crops.
''Some of us used to go north to work to make money to pay off debts, but no longer,'' said Martin Ramos Torres, a farmer, adding that at least two members of the cooperative he leads had been caught by United States border patrol agents and deported. ''In just three years, everything has changed.'' 
Mr. Ramos and some 300 small farmers here no longer sell their corn to middlemen but directly to PepsiCo, which guarantees the price it will pay for their crops upfront. The deal enables the small farmers to secure credit to buy seeds and fertilizers, crop insurance and equipment.
''Before, I had to sell my cow to buy what I needed,'' said Jose Guzman Santana, another farmer selling to Pepsi. ''Now I keep the cow and my family has milk while I grow my crop.''
PepsiCo's work with the corn farmers reflects a relatively new approach by corporations trying to maintain a business edge while helping out small communities and farmers. Begun as a pilot project by the foundation affiliated with the company's Sabritas snack foods division, it is expanding to about 850 farmers to develop a local source of sunflower oil, which the company needs to improve the nutritional quality of its products.
The corn project saved PepsiCo transportation costs because the farms were close to two of its factories, and the use of local farms assured it access to types of corn best suited to its products and processes. ''That gives us great leverage because corn prices don't fluctuate so much, but transportation costs do,'' said Pedro Padierna, president of PepsiCo's operations in Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean.
The social benefits of the corn program are obvious in higher incomes that have improved nutritional and educational standards among the participating farmers, not to mention its impact on illegal immigration and possibly even the reduction of marijuana production.
The sunflower farmers are expected to see similar benefits -- but PepsiCo insists those benefits are ancillary to the business rationale for the program.
A growing number of major companies have adopted similar business tacks aimed at profitability that also prove to be economically and socially beneficial for needy people. One of the earliest examples was Danone's development of a vitamin-enhanced yogurt product that sells for 11 cents in Bangladesh. The product is profit-neutral, but has given the company valuable insights into the 2.5 billion potential consumers who live on less than $2.50 a day.
''These are markets,'' Harry Verhaar, head of strategic sustainability initiatives at Philips Electronics, said of countries with sizable populations of impoverished consumers.
Philips has begun selling low-cost, solar-powered lighting products in Africa to people who lack access to the electrical grid. ''We are developing products to address them that are economically good for us as a company and also good for ecology and good for consumers,'' Mr. Verhaar said.
The products reduce the use of kerosene, the fuel of choice among the world's poorest consumers. Because they light homes that previously went dark at sundown, they may enable a child to study longer or a community to enjoy an evening soccer game.
And they have spawned business. ''A guy will set up a small shop with a large solar panel on the roof or behind and charge a small fee for recharging the solar light,'' Mr. Verhaar said.
''We are seeing an increased focus by companies looking to see how they can use their core capabilities for public good rather than simply writing a big check,'' said Gaurav Gupta, regional director for Asia at Dalberg Global Development Advisors, a consulting firm focused on international development. ''They're starting to realize that the marginal cost of doing a little extra good produces such a great impact -- and not only in terms of good will, but also because it's good for business.''
Mr. Gupta stressed that what was emerging was not ''corporate social responsibility,'' a loosely defined concept typically driven by corporate marketing departments, which he said was ''largely nonsense.''
''This is about a company's core activity, which is something it is constantly thinking about and working to improve,'' he said. ''Its impact on business can be defined and measured.''
Derek Yach, the former World Health Organization official who is now PepsiCo's senior vice president for global health and agriculture policy, said firmly: ''This is a business. All the good things we want to do have to be financed out of the profits of the company, so why not do them while we are doing our business?'' Mr. Padierna described the program in the state of Jalisco as Act II of a three-act play, which started when the company needed a way to mitigate its impact on the potato market. Through a guaranteed purchase system similar to the one it uses with the small farmers, PepsiCo enticed big agribusinesses to invest in the development of potato varieties better suited to Mexico's tropical climate and also mitigated its impact on potato prices, which swung wildly because its demand was so large.
Today, the company is the largest buyer of potatoes produced in Mexico, accounting for some 22 percent of total potato purchases there.
Working with small farmers was a bigger challenge. Mr. Guzman and Mr. Ramos, for instance, had little experience with pesticides, having previously relied on the local priest to bless away worms.
Nor did they maintain bank accounts, a hurdle to payment by wire transfer. ''We didn't have money to put in the bank,'' said Bonifacio Villalvazo, who together with Mr. Guzman and Mr. Ramos is a member of one of the cooperatives created by the program.
The company teamed up with a Mexican nonprofit group, Fundacion Sembrando Trabajo, which extended to farmers in Jalisco a program it had begun in Chiapas. ''The levers we use in this program are tiny, but they have tremendous impact,'' said Alberto Castelazo, chairman of Sembrando Trabajo.
A team of engineers from the nonprofit did soil and other tests to determine what seeds and fertilizers would work best. The engineers live nearby and so are frequently on hand to offer farmers advice and services, like delivering the seeds, instructing farmers on how to plant them and counseling on the safe disposal of pesticide containers, which in the past had been re-used to store water and other things.
''They taught us to first triple-wash them and then to poke holes in the bottom so they can't be reused,'' Mr. Guzman said. ''Now we use them to make fences'' -- which in turn reduces the need to cut down trees, thereby reducing soil erosion.
Other members of the group repeatedly stressed how helpful it was to know they would receive their seeds and supplies on time. In the past, they worked through intermediaries who would sell them what they needed to plant their crops, financing some or all of their purchases.
The intermediaries decided when to deliver seeds and fertilizer and when the farmers would harvest. And almost invariably, the price an intermediary would pay for that crop was less than the amount a farmer owed him -- assuming he even agreed to take the crop. ''I planted a lot less because I didn't know if I could sell it and I didn't want to end up with a big debt,'' said German Rodriguez Estrada, the youngest member of the cooperative. ''Now that I have a secure buyer, I plant twice as much.''
Indeed, the farmers said Pepsi's purchase guarantee was the most valuable aspect of the program, benefiting even farmers who did not participate. ''My neighbors come to me and ask what Sabritas is going to pay me for my crop,'' Mr. Ramos said. ''Now everyone is getting that price.''
The farmers said the price was higher than they ever got from any intermediary, which means they end up with money in the bank after a crop is harvested. Sembrando Trabajo estimates that while their output has increased by about 160 percent, their incomes have tripled over the three years the program has been in place.
''Well, it depends on the year and the crop, but, yes, we all have higher incomes in general,'' said Matias Estrada Figueroa, the treasurer of the cooperative.
They now maintain bank accounts, which Ellis J. Juan, representative of the Inter-American Development Bank in Mexico, considers one of the primary ''macro'' benefits of the program. ''The minute one of these farmers gains access to the financial system, he in a sense has to become legal,'' Mr. Juan said. ''He may have to pay taxes, which is good for Mexico, but he also develops a credit history that might later give him access to a loan he could use to send his child to college.''
Other broad benefits Mr. Juan cited were the program's potential to reduce illegal immigration to the United States and the cultivation of marijuana. ''The minute you can have a crop that provides higher profits, that becomes a possibility, though of course it's hard to measure,'' he said.
The bank has struck an agreement with PepsiCo to provide up to $5 million in credit guarantees to support a program similar to the corn project. The new project has enlisted farmers in the states of Jalisco and Durango grow sunflowers, the first time since 1970s that the crop has been grown for anything other than floral arrangements and bird seed, according to PepsiCo.
The company will spend roughly $52 million over the next seven years to buy crops that may eventually produce 40,000 tons of sunflower oil. That oil will begin replacing the 80,000 tons of palm oil it needs each year for products made in Mexico. The new oil will improve the nutritional quality of the foods it makes and will lower transportation costs, since palm oil must be imported from Asia and Africa. That, in turn, will have environmental benefits.
As for the San Gabriel cooperative, its members are applying for a government grant to buy a tractor, which they say will increase productivity and yields. ''Yes, a tractor or some other machinery, maybe a cooperative where we could sell seeds and fertilizers to other farmers,'' Mr. Ramos said. ''It's just the beginning of what we might do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maria Concepcion Rosales Guzman at work on the family farm in San Gabriel, Mexico. PepsiCo buys corn directly from farmers there. (B1)
 About 300 small farmers in San Gabriel, Mexico, sell their corn to PepsiCo, which guarantees the price. Matias Estrada Figueroa, below, is the treasurer of the farmers' cooperative. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET JARMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CORN FARMING (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); OILSEED FARMING (78%); MILK (77%); FAMILY (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); CANNABIS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CORN MARKETS (72%); CROP INSURANCE (70%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); NUTRITION (67%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (62%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (50%)

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (83%); DANONE SA (FRANCE) (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (83%); DNN (BIT) (50%); BN (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (83%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BANGLADESH (77%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



568 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: For Christie, Ailing Economy At Home May Test His Allure

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
In a year as governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie has captivated conservatives across the nation, with an in-your-face frankness and nonstop aggressiveness that few have seen from a chief executive.
Last week, his swaggering talk -- about tackling the really big problems, taming unions and cutting a ballooning deficit without raising taxes -- earned him a hero's welcome in Washington, where journalists pressed him on his presidential aspirations.
But while it is clear that Mr. Christie, 48, a Republican, has already upended the status quo, putting powerful interest groups on the defensive, and all but having his way with a Democratic-controlled Legislature, the challenges of the coming year could cinch his reputation as a political superstar -- or puncture it.
Without question, Mr. Christie, who is proposing his budget on Tuesday, has torn into the financial problems he faced with gusto. He has cut spending, limited taxes, forced government workers to give more and get less, and insisted on legislative reforms that could put the state on a firmer footing. 
His biggest tests, indeed, are not likely to come from New Jersey's public-sector unions, which appear almost cowed compared with their counterparts in Wisconsin, where labor protests have brought government skidding to a halt. Mr. Christie, after all, has invested energy in turning public opinion against those public-sector workers.
Yet his agenda of balancing the budget, rescuing a pension fund that could go broke within a decade and curtailing rising property taxes -- the holy grail of politics in his heavily suburban state -- is far from achieved. And he still could face the wrath of voters who discover that the costs of government have merely been shifted onto their local tax bills.
''People have heard the tough talk, but they haven't felt the full effect of what he's done,'' said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute. ''That may happen in the next year. And voters tell us that if their property taxes don't go down, they will hold him responsible.''
In his first year, Governor Christie closed a yawning budget deficit that he estimated at almost $11 billion, though in part by skipping a $3 billion payment to the pension system. At $29.4 billion, spending is down more than $5 billion from its peak two years earlier.
In proposing his budget on Tuesday, the governor is expected to call for more cuts to close another huge deficit. With major union contracts set to expire in June, he is calling for a wage freeze, which polls show the public supports.
But the state will still be deeply in debt, and facing a growing shortfall in its pension fund -- $54 billion and counting -- that helped spur a downgrade of the state's bonds.
Much of the effort to reduce benefits, shore up retiree funds and require workers to contribute more for their benefits began under Gov. Jon S. Corzine, the Democrat whom Mr. Christie ousted in 2009.
But comparisons with his predecessors make Mr. Christie look only more formidable.
From the moment he took over, Mr. Christie has flexed more of the muscle of New Jersey's strong governorship, and with greater evident glee, than any recent occupant.
The state has a thick layer of unelected authorities, for example, with responsibilities like operating sports arenas and overseeing sewage. Governors can void their actions merely by vetoing the minutes of their meetings, something Mr. Christie did more often in his first four weeks than Mr. Corzine did in four years.
''It gained him a high degree of public trust,'' said Brigid Harrison, a political science professor at Montclair State University. ''People figured, he's watching our tax dollars.''
Mr. Christie's office also took over contract talks with highway toll collectors, threatening to privatize their jobs, and he capped school superintendents' salaries, forcing two out of three to take pay cuts.
When the teachers' union resisted his demands for a wage freeze, he persuaded voters to defeat hundreds of school budgets. And he got nearly everything he wanted in the budget negotiations last year, making the deepest cuts in generations.
Those cuts included aid to schools, and many districts responded with higher property taxes. But the governor and the Legislature imposed a cap on property tax increases, which will pressure local officials to squeeze unions further, and they capped the salary increases public employees can win in arbitration.
Though Democrats control both houses, the Legislature has repeatedly given the governor some version of what he wanted, dismaying allies in organized labor. ''He has created a political climate where he's perceived as being such a winner that nobody wants to defy him,'' Ms. Harrison said.
In a fortunate bit of timing for Mr. Christie, Stephen M. Sweeney, Democrat of Gloucester County, took over as president of the Senate; his predecessor was both more liberal and more antagonistic toward the governor.
Senator Sweeney is a union official himself, but from the construction industry, and he had long advocated rolling back the gains made by government workers, who had not given up as much as their private-sector brethren.
Last year, the governor and the Legislature quickly agreed on changes for new public employees: cutting pension benefits, requiring employee contributions to health coverage, excluding part-time workers from the pension system and capping lump-sum payouts of accrued sick leave when workers retire.
Now, Mr. Christie and Mr. Sweeney are each calling for similar cutbacks for current workers. In the past, such changes were enacted after being negotiated with the unions. Under Mr. Christie, the approach is the reverse: use the laws to constrain coming contract talks.
''What it really amounts to is doing away with collective bargaining,'' said Hetty Rosenstein, state director of the Communications Workers, the largest state employee union. ''It's a pretty radical shift to gut public-sector labor unions.''
Mr. Christie's record has not been unblemished. He botched an application for $400 million in federal education money at a time when he was cutting twice that amount.
And in December, Mr. Christie was at Disney World during a blizzard that paralyzed the state. He refused to apologize, saying he had kept in touch with the acting governor, Mr. Sweeney -- but Mr. Sweeney said they never spoke.
Yet such gaffes have not transcended the state's borders, while Mr. Christie's YouTube rants against teachers and their union leaders have become widespread. Mr. Christie is less popular in New Jersey than with national Republicans: polls show that only about 50 percent of residents approve of his performance.
Where his poll numbers head now may depend on whether Mr. Christie can begin to show success in solving seemingly intractable problems like high property taxes before voters start to hold him responsible.
''When you cut billions of dollars from local government, you can't turn around and say 'It's the mayor's fault' -- you're the one who did it,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''In Chris Christie's New Jersey, class sizes are going up, and crime is going through the roof in our inner cities. Eventually, people are going to realize, 'I'm paying a lot more now, and I have a lot less.' The people have not realized it yet. But he's the governor, and the music's going to stop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Chris Christie (A1)
 Gov. Chris Christie, in Washington last week, will propose his budget on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); POLITICS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



569 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: One More Job Lost in the Recession: The Mayor's

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Jen McCaffery contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CENTRAL FALLS, R.I. -- These are trying times for the people of Central Falls, a city so close to fiscal collapse that the state seized control of City Hall last summer. Taxes have risen nearly 20 percent to help solve the immediate crisis, unions have agreed to givebacks and the city of 19,000 -- all 1.29 square miles of it -- seems tinged with defeat.
But to hear Mayor Charles D. Moreau tell it, his suffering may be worst of all.
Mr. Moreau, a Democrat serving his fourth term, has not set foot in City Hall since July 19, the day that a state-appointed receiver took control. The state police knocked on his door that morning, he said, demanded his city-owned car and cellphone and keys to City Hall and handed him a letter announcing that his salary of $71,736 was being cut to $26,000. His role was now advisory, he was informed. 
''I was told they'd call if they needed me,'' Mr. Moreau said recently in a rare interview. ''They haven't called since.''
Across the nation, cities and states are trying myriad ways of righting their fiscal ships as the recession plods on. But locking the mayor out of City Hall is generally not one of them.
A number of local governments are so financially distressed that states have assumed an oversight role. Several cities in Michigan have emergency financial managers appointed by the state, for example, and in New York, a state board seized control of Nassau County's finances last month. But in those cases and others, local elected officials have retained some role.
''The circumstances that have led to the difficulties in Central Falls may actually be widespread,'' said Christopher W. Hoene, director of research for the National League of Cities. ''But not very many cities are in that dire straits.''
Mr. Moreau, 47, is suing the state, asserting that the law allowing the takeover of financially troubled cities violates his constitutional right to due process, among other things. He appealed to the Rhode Island Supreme Court after losing the first round and is awaiting a ruling. Meanwhile, the blunt-talking mayor is working at his brother's real estate office, down the street from City Hall, and stewing about the situation he finds himself in. He has rebuffed calls to step down and, in fact, said he was already planning his 2013 re-election campaign.
''My bumper stickers are ready to be printed,'' he said. ''I'd win re-election with 90 percent of the vote if the election was today.''
His confidence seemed striking, in part because Mr. Moreau is the subject of a state and federal corruption inquiry involving his hiring of a friend to board up dozens of abandoned buildings in town for about $2 million. The friend, a contractor, also installed a new furnace in the mayor's house in 2009, according to The Providence Journal, possibly charging less than it was worth.
Mr. Moreau, a factory worker's son and former restaurant owner known around town as Chuckie, would not discuss the investigation except to call it ''all political'' and ''all nonsense.'' He said he had done nothing wrong.
Mr. Moreau's administration took the state by surprise by declaring fiscal insolvency last May. The city became the first in Rhode Island history to seek state bankruptcy protection, citing a deficit and retiree benefit obligations so profound as to seem insurmountable.
That alarmed the state, which feared that other beleaguered cities would follow suit, and bond rating agencies, which downgraded Central Falls's debt to junk status. So the legislature swiftly enacted a law allowing indefinite state oversight, a measure Mr. Moreau initially supported.
The receiver, Mark A. Pfeiffer, a retired state judge, did not move into Mr. Moreau's office when he arrived on the job, laying claim to a conference room instead. The office remains locked, a curtain over the door.
Mr. Pfeiffer said he saw no choice but to demote Mr. Moreau to advisory status.
''You couldn't have somebody come in and perform the duties of the mayor and have somebody else being the mayor,'' he said. ''It doesn't work very well, and particularly it doesn't work well in a distressed community.''
Mr. Pfeiffer tried to build a relationship with the City Council, but within months it deteriorated and he reduced its members to advisory status. He went to court in September to stop the mayor and the Council from making new appointments, and soon after, Mr. Moreau sued. He said he had hired lawyers with his own money; Mr. Pfeiffer said he had refused to authorize city funds.
The suit calls the receivership law ''undemocratic,'' saying it violates the separation of powers doctrine by giving Mr. Pfeiffer executive and legislative powers.
''Obviously here the people have been completely disenfranchised,'' said Michael Kelly, Mr. Moreau's lawyer. ''We have what I would suggest is a form of dictatorship.''
A Superior Court judge upheld the law as constitutional in October, partly because the receivership was temporary, although without a specific term. The law is not without precedent -- Massachusetts put the city of Chelsea under receivership in 1991, removing the elected mayor and reducing other officials to advisers.
At oral arguments before the Supreme Court this month, some justices appeared skeptical of Mr. Kelly's reasoning, with one saying of Mr. Moreau and the City Council, ''Those were the people in charge when the ship hit the shoals.''
Yet the justices also questioned the state's lawyer aggressively, asking what was to stop Mr. Pfeiffer from unilaterally changing city policies, like zoning, that had nothing to do with finance. They also questioned whether anyone would run for office if the city remained under receivership, with Justice Francis X. Flaherty, a former mayor himself, asking, ''What do you run for? Advisory mayor?''
His status notwithstanding, Mr. Moreau said he still talked to the city's police chief and public works director daily, met with constituents and pursued economic development projects. Asked whether other city officials and residents still addressed him as mayor, he cracked, ''They'd better.''
Mr. Moreau is known around town as a bare-knuckled politician who rewards allies -- often, critics say, with city jobs -- and punishes enemies. Early in his tenure, he made waves by ordering a search of computers at the city library for campaign materials that favored a political opponent. Later, he championed the expansion of a detention center, cracked down on street violence and easily won re-election.
Mr. Moreau said he had not bothered reading a lengthy report that Mr. Pfeiffer submitted to the state in December with recommendations for averting fiscal collapse, including the possibility of merging the city with neighboring Pawtucket. The report said the city's problems were rooted in more than a decade of elected leaders' approving generous union contracts without figuring out how to pay for them.
The troubles worsened because of state aid reductions and inaccurate budget assumptions. For example, the city anticipated $1.2 million in revenue from the detention center in 2009-10 and got none. The city has started paying its bills again, but Mr. Pfeiffer warned that Central Falls, with an annual budget of about $18 million, faced annual deficits of $5 million and combined pension and retiree health benefit obligations of about $80 million.
''I think it's all nonsense,'' Mr. Moreau said of Mr. Pfeiffer's recommendations.
Mr. Moreau also said he was galled by Mr. Pfeiffer's salary of $200 an hour, and while at one point he said his court battle was ''not about the money,'' he also lamented that his wife had been forced to return to work and his youngest child to enter day care.
''This was not my family plan,'' he said.
Some residents clearly share the mayor's outrage, while others are hopeful about the receivership or indifferent. Sparky Chippis, a restaurant owner and Moreau ally who has known the mayor since childhood, described Mr. Moreau's situation as ''an injustice.''
''The guy was elected by people,'' Mr. Chippis said. ''He had the trust of the people to be in the office over there.''
But James Diossa, the only Council member who did not join Mr. Moreau's lawsuit, said many residents appreciated the change. ''The prior administration didn't do a great job as far as keeping the community informed, and the community really lost faith,'' said Mr. Diossa, who heads an advisory council to the receiver.
Mr. Pfeiffer said few citizens had complained to him, but Mr. Moreau said that was because people were afraid. ''They should be marching in the streets as to what's been done to me,'' he said.
Mr. Pfeiffer stepped down earlier this month; his term was up and the new governor, Lincoln D. Chafee, an independent, wanted to appoint ''a trusted adviser,'' a spokesman said. With the pick, Robert G. Flanders Jr., a former State Supreme Court justice, in charge, Mr. Moreau said he was hoping to get a call.
''I will send him a letter and be very frank with him that I'm here to help,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Charles D. Moreau, above, of Central Falls, R.I., was pushed aside by state officials after the city declared bankruptcy last year. The state receiver, Mark A. Pfeiffer, left, demoted the mayor to advisory status. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RYAN CONATY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13)
 The mayor's office in Central Falls, R.I., remains locked. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); DUE PROCESS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (61%); LITIGATION (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



570 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Exposes on Oil Spill in Gulf, Afghanistan and Steroids Win Polk Awards

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Investigative reports that exposed the devastating environmental and economic impact of the oil spill last year in the Gulf of Mexico and leadership failings in America's military mission in Afghanistan were among the winners of 13 George Polk Awards for 2010 announced on Monday by Long Island University.
Correspondents of The New York Times won two awards, for military and foreign reporting, and staff members of the independent investigative news group ProPublica shared two awards in collaborative efforts, with colleagues from The Times-Picayune of New Orleans and the PBS program ''Frontline'' for television reporting, and with staff members from National Public Radio for radio reporting. 
Other awards went to reporters for The Washington Post, The Star-Ledger of Newark, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, The Los Angeles Times and Bloomberg News, and to a columnist for The Daily News of New York. Sandy Close, executive director of New America Media, which supports thousands of ethnic media outlets, was cited for career achievement.
''A number of major metropolitan newspapers produced significant investigative work during 2010, and for the first time there were some truly noteworthy collaborative projects across print, television, radio and the Internet,'' said John Darnton, curator of the Polk Awards, which honor work in the tradition of George W. Polk, a CBS correspondent killed covering the civil war in Greece in 1948.
The Associated Press won the award for environmental reporting for its extensive coverage of the oil spill in the gulf. The agency broke the news that BP's Deepwater Horizon drilling rig had gone down after an explosion, and its subsequent investigative reports, including compelling videos, detailed many equipment and management failures that magnified the disaster, devastating the region's environment and economy.
The magazine reporting award went to Michael Hastings of Rolling Stone for ''The Runaway General,'' which revealed strategic problems, political infighting and contemptuous attitudes toward civilian authority in the American military command in Afghanistan. After the disclosures, President Obama dismissed Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the commander of American and NATO forces in the region.
For behind-the-scenes reports on the war in Afghanistan, enemy incursions from Pakistan and the use of private contractors in the war, two correspondents of The New York Times, Dexter Filkins, then based in Kabul, and Mark Mazzetti, based in Washington, won the military reporting award. The articles also suggested greater corruption on the part of President Hamid Karzai than had previously been reported. (Mr. Filkins has since left The Times.)
Clifford J. Levy and Ellen Barry, Times correspondents based in Moscow, won the foreign reporting award for ''Above the Law,'' a series that examined corruption and abuse of power in Russia two decades after the fall of Communism, despite post-Soviet promises that no one would remain above the law. Their reports told of citizens killed, harassed, beaten or jailed after defying authorities.
The national reporting award went to Dana Priest and William M. Arkin of The Washington Post for ''Top Secret America,'' a two-year investigation that exposed a vast network of national security, military, intelligence and corporate interests spawned in the business of keeping Americans safe in the decade since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
The Los Angeles Times staff and two reporters, Jeff Gottlieb and Ruben Vives, won the local reporting award for articles on the working-class city of Bell, a Los Angeles County community of 37,000, where officials were raking in some of the highest municipal salaries in the nation, including $800,000 for a city administrator and nearly $100,000 for part-time council members. The reports led to criminal charges of corruption against eight current or former officials.
The metropolitan reporting award went to Amy Brittain and Mark Mueller of The Star-Ledger for ''Strong at Any Cost,'' a series on steroid use by hundreds of New Jersey law enforcement officers, firefighters and correction officers, in most cases with fraudulent prescriptions and at taxpayer expense.
Three reporters for Bloomberg News, Daniel Golden, John Hechinger and John Lauerman, won the education award for articles on profit-making colleges that recruited underprivileged students, veterans, active members of the armed forces and others, even homeless people, who qualified for various federal financial aid programs. The reports said such aid had soared to $26.5 billion in 2009.
John Diedrich and Ben Poston of The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel won the criminal justice award for ''Wiped Clean,'' a series on lax licensing of gun dealers by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Some 50 dealers wiped out years of violations by changing ownerships on paper, the reports said.
The award for commentary went to Juan Gonzalez, a columnist for The Daily News, for disclosing a $700 million boondoggle in a project to overhaul New York City's electronic payroll system and the Bloomberg administration's failure to act on persistent signs of mismanagement. His columns were followed by the indictment of four consultants and three associates on charges of orchestrating a fraud that cost the city $80 million.
A collaborative effort by A. C. Thompson of ProPublica, Raney Aronson-Rath and Tom Jennings of ''Frontline'' and Laura Maggi and Brendan McCarthy of The Times-Picayune won the television award for ''Law and Disorder,'' an examination of charges that New Orleans police officers shot at least 10 people, killing 4, after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
The radio reporting award went to T. Christian Miller of ProPublica and Daniel Zwerdling and Susanne Reber of NPR for ''Brain Wars,''which said the American military was providing inadequate diagnoses and treatment of traumatic brain injuries suffered by thousands of soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Ms. Close, the career award recipient, was honored for 37 years of service to ethnic media, including the mentoring of many journalists now employed in the mainstream media.
Established in 1949, the Polk Awards are administered by Long Island University. Faculty and alumni select winners from entries submitted by journalists, news organizations and a panel of editors, reporters and journalism teachers. The awards will be presented at a luncheon at the Roosevelt Hotel in Manhattan on April 7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); MCCHRYSTAL RESIGNATION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); WRITERS (74%); PUBLIC RADIO (69%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); STEROIDS (61%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (57%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GREECE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



571 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Union Bonds In Wisconsin Begin to Fray

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER and MONICA DAVEY; A. G. Sulzberger reported from Janesville, and Monica Davey from Madison, Wis.

 BODY:
JANESVILLE, Wis. -- Rich Hahn worked at the General Motors plant here until it closed about two years ago. He moved to Detroit to take another G.M. job while his wife and children stayed here, but then the automaker cut more jobs. So Mr. Hahn, 50, found himself back in Janesville, collecting unemployment for a time, and watching as the city's industrial base seemed to crumble away.
Among the top five employers here are the county, the schools and the city. And that was enough to make Mr. Hahn, a man who has worked at unionized factories, a supporter of Gov. Scott Walker's sweeping proposal to cut the benefits and collective-bargaining rights of public workers in Wisconsin, a plan that has set off a firestorm of debate and protests at the state Capitol. He says he still believes in unions, but thinks those in the public sector lead to wasteful spending because of what he sees as lavish benefits and endless negotiations.
''Something needs to be done,'' he said, ''and quickly.'' 
Across Wisconsin, residents like Mr. Hahn have fumed in recent years as tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs have vanished, and as some of the state's best-known corporations have pressured workers to accept benefit cuts.
Wisconsin's financial problems are not as dire as those of many other states. But a simmering resentment over those lost jobs and lost benefits in private industry -- combined with the state's history of highly polarized politics -- may explain why Wisconsin, once a pioneer in supporting organized labor, has set off a debate that is spreading to other states over public workers, unions and budget woes.
There are deeply divided opinions and shifting allegiances over whether unions are helping or hurting people who have been caught in the recent economic squeeze. And workers themselves, being pitted against one another, are finding it hard to feel sympathy or offer solidarity, with their own jobs lost and their benefits and pensions cut back or cut off.
''Everyone else needs to pinch pennies and give more money to health insurance companies and pay for their own retirement,'' said Cindy Kuehn as she left Jim and Judy's Food Market in Palmyra. ''It's about time the buck stops.''
In Madison, the capital, which has become the focus of protests, many state workers and students at the University of Wisconsin predictably oppose the proposed cuts.
But away from Madison, many people said that public workers needed to share in the sacrifice that their own families have been forced to make.
The effort to weaken bargaining rights for public-sector unions has been particularly divisive, with some people questioning the need to tackle such a fundamental issue to solve the state's budget problems.
But more often the conversation has turned to the proposals to increase public workers' contributions to their pensions and health care, and on these issues people said they were less sympathetic, and often grew flushed and emotional telling stories of their own pay cuts and financial worries.
Here in Janesville, a city of about 60,000 an hour southeast of Madison, Crystal Watkins, a preschool teacher at a Lutheran church, said she was paid less than public school teachers and got fewer benefits. ''I don't have any of that,'' she said. ''But I'm there every day because I love the kids.''
In Palmyra, a small village bounded by farmland and forests, MaryKay Horter remembered how her husband's Chevy dealership had teetered on the brink of closing after General Motors declared bankruptcy, for which she blamed unions.
Ms. Horter said she was forced to work more hours as an occupational therapist, but had not seen a raise or any retirement contributions from her employer for the last two years. All told, her family's income has dropped by about a third.
''I don't get to bargain in my job, either,'' she said.
And in nearby Whitewater, a scenic working-class city of 15,000 that is home to a public university, Dave Bergman, the owner of a bar, was tending it himself on Sunday. He has been forced to cut staff and work seven days a week.
''There are a lot of people out of work right now that would take a job without a union,'' Mr. Bergman said.
By some measures, Wisconsin, a state of 5.6 million people, has not suffered as much as other Midwestern states in the recession, according to Abdur Chowdhury, an economist at Marquette University.
Its unemployment rate, 7.5 percent in December, is lower than the nation's. But a significant percentage of jobs lost in Wisconsin during the recession were in manufacturing, and this is a state where the proportion of the work force in manufacturing is among the nation's highest.
Meanwhile, some of the state's well-known companies -- Harley-Davidson, Kohler, Mercury Marine -- have recently sought concessions from their workers.
The battle over public workers has changed the tone in a state that prides itself on Midwestern civility. A growing number of homemade bumper stickers are popping up with messages like ''Fire Them -- Democrats Too.''
Among the state's political leaders, the partisan gulf seems to have widened further. Traditionally, the state is nearly evenly split between Republicans and Democrats (along with a third group of independents) -- making it a perennial battleground in presidential elections, with margins of victory that have sometimes come down to a matter of a few tenths of 1 percent. Wisconsin is the state that gave birth to government unions in the 1950s, but also to Joseph McCarthy, who railed against people he accused of being Communists.
''The Republicans are really Republicans here, and the Democrats are really Democrats, so the candidates who come out of primaries reflect that,'' said Ken Goldstein, a political scientist from the University of Wisconsin.
Two years after the state elected President Obama by a wide margin, it elected conservative Republicans -- some of them supported by Tea Party groups -- to the state legislature, the Senate and the governor's office.
The flip has emboldened Mr. Walker, the new Republican governor who has proposed the cuts to benefits and bargaining rights, arguing that he desperately needs to bridge a deficit expected to reach $3.6 billion for the coming two-year budget.
Union leaders have said they would accept the financial terms of Mr. Walker's proposal. The more controversial provisions, though, would strip public employees of collective-bargaining rights.
In Whitewater, Ben Penwell, a lawyer whose wife is a public employee, said he saw no reason to strip away workers' bargaining rights if they had agreed to benefit cuts.
''They're willing to do what's necessary fiscally without giving up rights in the future,'' he said.
And Pat Wellnitz, working in his accounting office on Sunday, wondered why such bargaining provisions were needed if the real problem was simply saving money.
''That's pretty drastic even for a staunch Republican,'' he said.
But others suggested that unions had perhaps had outlived their usefulness. Carrie Fox, who works at a billboard advertising company, said she hoped that the battle would encourage other governors to rein in public- and private-sector unions.
''I know there was a point for unions back in the day because people were being abused,'' she said. ''But now there's workers' rights; there's laws that protect us.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A front-page article on Tuesday about reaction among private-sector workers in Wisconsin to Gov. Scott Walker's effort to cut benefits and collective-bargaining rights for unionized public employees referred incorrectly to the work history of one person quoted, and also misspelled his surname. While the man, Rich Hahn (not Hahan) described himself to a reporter as a ''union guy,'' he now says that he has worked at unionized factories, but was not himself a union member. (The Times contacted Mr. Hahn again to review his background after a United Auto Workers official said the union had no record of his membership.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pat Wellnitz says ending collective bargaining is ''pretty drastic even for a staunch Republican.''
 MaryKay Horter, an occupational therapist, supports the governor's proposal: ''I don't get to bargain in my job, either.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HISTORY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); FAMILY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



572 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: New Respect For Japanese Stock Market

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japan's government finances are on the verge of collapse, and its economy has floundered for two decades.
So why do many global investors consider the Japanese stock market a buy?
''Japan is by far one of the cheapest markets in the world,'' said Charles de Vaulx of International Value Advisers, a New York-based investment firm. ''It's so universally hated, yet it might be one of the world's best-performing markets over the next five years.''
Of the $12.7 billion in assets Mr. de Vaulx manages, 15 percent is already invested in Japan, and he is considering loading on even more. ''So many Japanese companies are well managed from an industrial standpoint,'' he said.
In the week ending Feb. 11, investors based outside of Japan were net buyers of Japanese stocks for the 15th consecutive week, according to data released by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. That was the longest such run since 2005. 
An attraction for the bulls is the fire-sale prices. Although the benchmark Nikkei recently hit a nearly 10-month high, it is still more than two-thirds off its peak before Japan's real estate and stock market bubble burst in 1990.
Shares in Tokyo are also about 20 percent off their levels before the financial crisis hit in 2008 -- one of the few major markets that have yet to rebound.
Prices are so depressed that, at the end of December, nearly two-thirds of the 1,700 companies listed on the Tokyo exchange's main section had price-to-book ratios below 1. That means, in effect, if one of those companies was dismantled and sold off for its parts, it would fetch more than its market value.
''These stock prices are saying there's no hope whatsoever for Japanese companies, and that's simply not true,'' said Tony Roberts, who manages a $2 billion-dollar Japan fund for London-based Invesco Perpetual. ''There are lots of great companies in Japan that add a lot of value,'' he said.
Certainly Japan can still give investors reasons for doubt -- like the long-term effects of the government's high debt and aging population. There is also the paltry profitability of companies like Sony, which has averaged a 3 percent return on equity over the last five years while its Korean rival, Samsung Electronics, has surpassed 13 percent by the same measure.
Yet ''foreign investors who were once automatically giving Japanese stocks a pass are now taking a second look,'' said Junya Naruse, chief strategist at the Daiwa Institute of Research.
For one thing, the economic recovery gaining strength in the United States is emboldening investors, while helping brighten the outlook for Japan's export-led economy. At the same time, turmoil in the Middle East, rising food inflation and tighter money policies in fast-growing economies like China are prompting some global investors to think twice about emerging markets.
In fact, now that China is Japan's top trading partner, Japanese export stocks seem a less risky way to invest indirectly in Chinese growth.
And while corporate earnings are far from booming, total net profit at Japan's publicly listed companies has more than doubled this fiscal year, according to a Nikkei tally.
More Japanese companies have also tried to counter investors' longstanding complaints that companies here hoard too much cash, instead of investing it or returning it to shareholders. Some companies have raised dividends. Others, including Japan Tobacco and the semiconductor maker Rohm, have announced share buybacks in recent months -- moves that help elevate the value of the companies' remaining shares in the market.
Meanwhile, if the inflation threatening other countries spills over into Japan, it could finally help the country reverse depressed prices, with positive spillovers for the stock market.
Still, investors caution that making money on Japanese stocks requires an intimate knowledge of Japan's corporate landscape. Instead of sticking to well-known global companies like Toyota or Sony, investment managers aim to ferret out small- and medium-size companies trading below their potential.
International Value Advisors, for example, has invested in relatively obscure companies like Kanamoto, which leases construction material, and Milbon, which makes hair care products.
''With proper stock-picking, the Japanese stock market is a place where one can make money,'' said Mr. de Vaulx of International Value Advisors.
Some activist investors, meanwhile, are trying to coax Japanese companies into creating more value for shareholders, rekindling an issue that ignited contentious battles between foreign investors and Japanese management in the mid-2000s.
Earlier this month, Governance for Owners, an investment firm and shareholder advocate based in London, and Tokio Marine Asset Management of Japan said they would jointly start a fund that would invest 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in underperforming small- to mid-cap Japanese companies and take an activist role.
''We feel that there are opportunities in Japan, but there are issues that need addressing,'' said Simon Wong, a partner at Governance for Owners, pointing especially to the cash hoarding that he said still characterized many Japanese companies.
Domestic investors have started to mirror these moves to home in on underperforming Japanese shares. In late January, Nomura Asset Management set up the Undervalued Japan Stocks Investment Trust, attracting 73 billion yen ($878 million) in retail money, more than double the size of the largest new Japan stock fund last year, according to the research company Lipper.
Renewed investor interest is welcome in a market that has lost its thunder to faster-growing regional rivals. By share turnover, the Tokyo Stock Exchange lost its standing as Asia's top bourse to Shanghai in 2009, although Tokyo still has the continent's biggest exchange by market value.
''Japan offers a very attractive environment: our banks are stable, we are a democracy, and our markets are open and transparent,'' said Atsushi Saito, chief executive of the stock exchange. ''Investment hot spots might be fun for short-term money play. But for the stable management of funds, Japanese equities are much better,'' he said.
At least until they aren't.
Currently, global markets are volatile over the Middle East turmoil. And some political events could sway Japanese stocks. The Japanese government has promised to decide by June whether it will participate in negotiations for a pan-Pacific free trade zone -- a potential boon for industry, but opposed by farmers.
The same month, the government plans to outline steps to raise its consumption tax, which, if executed poorly, could hurt Japan's economic recovery.
''The rally should continue until June -- after that, it all depends,'' said Mr. Naruse, of Daiwa. ''It's a fragile recovery, and investors could lose faith in Japan again, all at once.''
Moody's Downgrades Outlook
TOKYO (AP) -- Moody's Investors Service on Tuesday downgraded its outlook for Japan's credit rating because of concerns over its national debt. The rating agency changed its outlook for Japan's Aa2 rating from stable to negative. The move was not unexpected. Last month, Standard & Poor's cut Japan's credit rating from AA to AA-.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some investors say shares in Japanese companies are undervalued. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZUHIRO NOGI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
A port in Tokyo. The recovery gaining strength in the United States is brightening the outlook for Japan's export-led economy (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT KENNEDY BROWN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B6) CHARTS: Japanese Stocks, at a Bargain, Renew Interest: Renewed interest in Japanese stocks have lifted the Nikkei index in recent months. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Tokyo Stock Exchange) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); AGING TRENDS (69%); AGING (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (57%); JAPAN FUND (52%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (51%); DAIWA INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH LTD (50%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (57%); SMSN (LSE) (51%); 005930 (KSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



573 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bloomberg's Not-So-Bad Budget

 BODY:
When Mayor Michael Bloomberg presented his new budget for New York City, he rightly took credit for keeping the city fiscally fit through the worst recession in decades. His $65.6 billion budget for the next fiscal year was less painful than expected. Now he needs to make sure that an improved economy -- and improved tax revenues -- helps those who need help the most. 
In his presentation of the 2011-2012 city budget (the fiscal year begins July 1), the mayor announced a $2.1 billion projected increase in tax revenues. The city (read that as mostly Wall Street) has recovered ''faster and stronger'' than the rest of the country, he said. That cuts significantly into a projected $4.6 billion deficit for next year, but the mayor says he needs another $2 billion in savings or cuts -- more if the state does not provide the $600 million in financing and pension relief that Mr. Bloomberg wants.
That's going to spark a battle -- as will his list of cuts. Mr. Bloomberg proposes eliminating 6,000 of the city's 80,000 teaching jobs, closing 20 firehouses, cutting library financing by 8 percent, reducing the budget of parks and recreation by 11 percent and closing 100 senior centers and 17,000 child-care spots for children of low-income working parents. The City Council should soften some of these cuts, starting with child care, and, if necessary, find ways to squeeze that $30 million out of those rich New Yorkers who have recovered so nicely.
If some loss of teachers is necessary (Mr. Bloomberg says 1,400 jobs would disappear through attrition and the rest through layoffs), city and state education officials need to find a better way to lay off teachers.
The present policy allows teachers with more seniority to automatically keep jobs over newcomers. There are better ways to determine which teachers are good and which are not -- no matter how long they have been on the job -- and to arrange layoffs by performance. New York is taking far too long to get there.
The mayor also has a long list of pension reforms that he wants state lawmakers to approve. He said the city now spends more than 12 percent of its budget on pension costs, and he wants future retirees to work longer and contribute more to pensions and health care. He wants the city to negotiate pensions as part of city contracts. State lawmakers control those pensions and keep making them more expensive to please union lobbyists.
Such changes are needed but will be tough to get out of Albany. (The mayor is already in an intense battle with Gov. Andrew Cuomo over proposed city budget cuts.) Mr. Bloomberg wants at least $200 million in state revenue-sharing money and $200 million more than the governor proposed for education.
He said the city would save another $200 million if the state agreed to cancel year-end bonuses of up to $12,000 each for new retirees.
Without some of these changes, the mayor is threatening to cut city operations by another $600 million. Still, the city looks in better shape than we expected, even a few weeks ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); LOBBYING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (72%); PARENTS (71%); CHILD CARE (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); CHILDREN (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (64%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



574 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Care Plan Needs Changes to Last, Federal Officials Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One of Senator Edward M. Kennedy's legacies in the new health care law, intended to allow the chronically ill and people with disabilities to continue living in their homes, is too costly to survive without major changes, Obama administration officials now say.
Republican lawmakers, who have vowed to repeal the health care law, cite the administration's acknowledgment as yet another reason to do so. But the health and human services secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, says the law gives her plenty of authority to make the necessary changes to the program without Congressional action.
To make the program viable, Ms. Sebelius said, she is considering changes in the eligibility criteria, including employment and earnings requirements, to ensure that only active workers may enroll. She also said she favored adjusting premiums to rise with inflation.
Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa and chairman of the Senate health committee, encouraged the administration to make any changes that might be required to keep the program fiscally sound, so ''no one with a disability will be forced to live in an institution.'' 
Under the current law, the program will allow workers 18 and older to buy insurance from the government to cover the costs of long-term care. After paying premiums for at least five years, they are then eligible for benefits if they become unable to perform basic activities of daily living because of chronic illness or crippling injury. The program is meant for people with severe disabilities who want to live in the community, though benefits can also be used to help pay for nursing home care or assisted living.
An employer can arrange for workers to be enrolled automatically, with premiums paid through payroll deductions. An employee can opt out at any time and, apparently, re-enroll later.
Advocates for older Americans and for people with disabilities say the need for such help will explode as baby boomers age. President Obama's 2012 budget seeks $93.5 million for a huge ''information and education'' campaign, with the goal of having 7.7 million people in the long-term care insurance program by 2015.
In debate on the health care bill in late 2009, Republicans and moderate Democrats repeatedly warned that sicker people were more likely than healthy ones to sign up for the long-term care plan. Enrollment is voluntary, but the law stipulates that premiums must be set high enough to guarantee the solvency of the program over 75 years. Higher premiums would discourage healthier people from participating, economists and actuaries say.
Administration officials, who played down such concerns 15 months ago, say they now share them. Under questioning by a Republican at a Senate hearing last week, Ms. Sebelius said the original version of the program, known as Community Living Assistance Services and Supports, or Class, was ''totally unsustainable.''
She told the House Ways and Means Committee, ''We very much share the concerns that have been expressed that, as written into law, the framework of the program was not sustainable.''
But Ms. Sebelius resisted Republican demands for the program's repeal. Instead, she said, she is considering changes to make the program ''significantly different than the framework that the law itself describes.'' A main goal, she said, is to attract more healthy people, thus spreading the financial risk across a larger group.
For example, Ms. Sebelius said, she may alter eligibility criteria, including employment and earnings requirements, to make sure people are established workers when they enroll.
Federal officials have not specified the amount of premiums or benefits. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that nearly 10 million people might enroll in the program by 2019 and said that premiums would start at $123 a month for benefits expected to average $75 a day. Medicare actuaries estimated that 2.8 million people would participate within three years and said premiums needed to be about $240 a month to cover program costs.
Under the current law, Ms. Sebelius said, a person's premiums will generally stay the same, but cash benefits will increase with inflation. She said she favored adjusting premiums to rise with inflation, a change that could deter some workers from participating.
Federal officials said they were also looking for ways to discourage workers from dropping out and re-enrolling.
The law governing the program specifies that ''no taxpayer funds shall be used for payment of benefits,'' a provision Ms. Sebelius said was ''nonnegotiable.'' The health secretary can, however, adjust premiums as needed to maintain the program's solvency. Her power to revamp it in other ways is unclear.
''Secretary Sebelius seems to believe that she has more flexibility to change the program than Congress gave her,'' said Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota.
The law also says that up to 3 percent of the program's premiums may be used to pay administrative expenses, but since no premiums have been paid, Mr. Obama is seeking the $93.5 million to publicize the program.
''The program's financial solvency and viability will depend on the enrollment of large numbers of participants,'' the White House said in its 2012 budget request. ''Employers and individuals will need to have access to information about the need for long-term services and supports and the benefits of the program. It will be crucial to educate employers about how to enroll their employees and to inform individuals about how to enroll directly.''
Public confidence in the program is essential if the government expects millions of people to enroll starting next year. But economists and actuaries have raised many questions.
Richard S. Foster, the chief actuary at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College; and leaders of the American Academy of Actuaries all said the program would be unstable if, as expected, it attracts disproportionate numbers of people with health problems.
Mr. Foster said his analysis showed the program faced ''a significant risk of failure'' because people who are or expect to be sick or disabled were more likely to sign up. In a study issued this month, Ms. Munnell, an economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, said more stringent work requirements and an effective national advertising campaign could help attract young, healthy people to the insurance pool.
Even so, she said, ''premiums may never reach an affordable level for middle-class households,'' so ''the program faces enormous challenges.''
Mr. Obama's debt-reduction commission, a bipartisan advisory body, said in its report late last year that Congress should ''reform or repeal'' the program.
''The program's earliest beneficiaries will pay modest premiums for only a few years and receive benefits many times larger,'' the panel said, ''so that sustaining the system over time will require increasing premiums and reducing benefits to the point that the program is neither appealing to potential customers nor able to accomplish its stated function.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kathleen Sebelius, the health secretary, says she can fix the program, but Senator John Thune says Congress did not give her so much flexibility. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM LO SCALZO/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (74%); BUDGETS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (89%); TOM HARKIN (73%); TED KENNEDY (73%); JOHN THUNE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



575 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: The Dirty Energy Party

 BODY:
President Obama has decided that the failure of last year's comprehensive climate bill does not have to mean the death of climate policy. Instead of imposing a mandatory cap and stiff price on carbon emissions, as the bill would have done, the president is offering a more modest approach involving sharply targeted and well-financed research into breakthrough technologies, cleaner fuels and more efficient cars and trucks. 
This is all part of a broader investment-for-the-future strategy that he outlined in his State of the Union address, and it all makes sense as a way of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, creating more green jobs and reducing America's dependence on foreign oil.
Yet even this retailored approach is sure to whip the Republicans into a fresh frenzy of opposition. They have already made clear their determination to cut off financing and otherwise undermine the Environmental Protection Agency, which plans to regulate carbon emissions from power plants and other industrial sources using its authority under the Clean Air Act.
But basic scientific research? Energy efficiency? Cleaner fuels? The House Republican budget resolution gives the back of its hand to even these worthy and unobjectionable strategies, which until now have enjoyed reliable bipartisan support.
Mr. Obama's outlays for the Energy Department would jump 12 percent next year to about $30 billion, despite planned austerity elsewhere in the government. Of this, $8 billion would be devoted to research and development, aimed broadly at a greener economy.
Inside the research-and-development budget are robust investments: a $450 million increase in basic science, doubling (from three to six) the number of Energy Innovation Hubs to encourage collaboration among universities, government labs and the private sector; $550 million for the fledgling Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, known as ARPA-E, which looks into cutting-edge ideas. There's also a $1 billion increase for renewable energy and energy efficiency, and a $588 million jump -- 88 percent -- for advanced vehicles.
The main area of agreement between Mr. Obama and the Republicans seems to be nuclear power. Both sides support extensive loan guarantees to an industry that hasn't built a new reactor in years but could supply a lot of clean power if it ever got going.
Otherwise, as expressed in their budget resolution, the Republican agenda is breathtakingly negative: a mere $50 million for ARPA-E, $900 million less for basic science, $900 million less for energy efficiency and alternative fuels, a much-reduced loan program for deploying clean power sources like wind, solar and geothermal.
Some of these programs would take extra hits because the bill would, unconscionably, strip them of unused stimulus money, a hefty $10 billion in the case of efficiency and renewables.
The message to the White House and the Democratic leadership is clear: get ready to fight. Mr. Obama was AWOL in last year's struggle for a comprehensive climate bill -- a great pity because he had more support in Congress than he does now. He'll need all the energy he failed to expend last year -- and more -- to achieve even his slimmed-down objectives this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); WIND ENERGY (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); POWER PLANTS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



576 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: At Grave Risk

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Buried deep beneath the stories about executive bonuses, the stock market surge and the economy's agonizingly slow road to recovery is the all-but-silent suffering of the many millions of Americans who, economically, are going down for the count.
A 46-year-old teacher in Charlotte, Vt., who has been unable to find a full-time job and is weighed down with debt, wrote to his U.S. senator, Bernie Sanders: 
''I am financially ruined. I find myself depressed and demoralized and my confidence is shattered. Worst of all, as I hear more and more talk about deficit reduction and further layoffs, I have the agonizing feeling that the worst may not be behind us.''
Similar stories of hardship and desolation can be found throughout Vermont and the rest of the nation. The true extent of the economic devastation, and the enormous size of that portion of the population that is being left behind, has not yet been properly acknowledged. What is being allowed to happen to those being pushed out or left out of the American mainstream is the most important and potentially most dangerous issue facing the country.
Senator Sanders is a Vermont independent who caucuses with the Democrats. He asked his constituents to write to him about their experiences coping with the recession and its aftermath. Hundreds responded, including several from outside Vermont. A 69-year-old woman from northeastern Vermont wrote plaintively:
''We are the first generation to leave our kids worse off than we were. How did this happen? Why is there such a wide distance between the rich and the middle class and the poor? What happened to the middle class? We did not buy boats or fancy cars or diamonds. Why was it possible to change the economy from one that was based on what we made and grew and serviced to a paper economy that disappeared?''
A woman with two teenagers told the senator about her husband, a building contractor for many years, who has been unable to find work in the downturn:
''I see my husband, capable and experienced, now really struggling with depression and trying to reinvent his profession at age 51. I feel this recession is leaving us, once perhaps a middle-class couple, now suddenly thrust into the lower-middle-class world without loads of options except to try and find more and more smaller jobs to fill in some of the financial gaps we feel day to day.
''All we want to do is work hard and pay our bills. We're just not sure even that part of the American Dream is still possible anymore.''
One of the things I noticed reading through the letters was the pervasive sense of loss, not just of employment, but of faith in the soundness and possibilities of America. For centuries, Americans have been nothing if not optimistic. But now there is a terrible sense that so much that was taken for granted during the past six or seven decades is being dismantled or destroyed.
A 26-year-old man who emerged from college with big dreams wrote: ''I had hoped to be able to support not just myself by this point, but to be able to think about settling down and starting a family. My family always told me that an education was the ticket to success, but all my education seems to have done in this landscape is make it impossible to pull myself out of debt and begin a successful career.''
How bad have things become? According to the National Employment Law Project, a trend is growing among employers to not even consider the applications of the unemployed for jobs that become available. Among examples offered by the project were a phone manufacturer that posted a job announcement with the message: ''No Unemployed Candidate Will Be Considered At All,'' and a Texas electronics company that announced online that it would ''not consider/review anyone NOT currently employed regardless of the reason.''
This is the environment that is giving rise to the worker protests in Wisconsin, Ohio and elsewhere. The ferment is not just about public employees and their unions. Researchers at Rutgers University found last year that more than 70 percent of respondents to a national survey had either lost a job, or had a relative or close friend who had lost a job. That is beyond ominous. The great promise of the United States, its primary offering to its citizens and the world, is at grave risk.
A couple facing foreclosure in Barre, Mass., wrote to Senator Sanders: ''We are now at our wits end and in dire straits. Our parents have since left this world and with no place to go, what are we to do and where are we to go?'' They pray to God, they said, that they will not end up living in their car in the cold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (73%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



577 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: With Mideast Unrest, Foreign Investment Is Again Interrupted

BYLINE: By SARA HAMDAN

 BODY:
With the global markets on the mend last fall, a private equity consortium moved to sell its 93 percent stake in the Egyptian drug maker Amoun Pharmaceutical. In January, the consortium of American investors, including a Citigroup fund, seemed hopeful they could sign a deal for $1 billion, more than triple what they paid in 2006.
But as student protests in the country turned to revolutionary upheaval, buyers never materialized. Now, the deal is up in the air, a person with knowledge of the situation told DealBook, speaking only on the condition of anonymity. 
After two years in a state of paralysis, foreign investors slowly began returning to the Middle East late last year, with deal volume showing a modest uptick. But in the wake of the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia, deal makers in the region have once again grown cautious, concerned about economic instability and market volatility.
''Deals are being put on hold, but not necessarily abandoned,'' said Sarah Alexander, the president and chief executive of the Emerging Markets Private Equity Association, based in Washington. ''There is a wait-and-see attitude, as even pricing is difficult to judge at the moment.''
That private equity players are getting spooked reflects just how new the territory is for them. Deal volume, which amounted to just $148 million in 2004, reached $3.7 billion three years later, according to data from Bain & Company, a consulting firm. But during the financial crisis, firms retrenched and deal-making all but disappeared.
Late last year, private equity started to show signs of life. Egyptian and Saudi Arabian companies accounted for most of the recent purchases. In the largest deal, Abraaj Capital agreed in December to buy a 49 percent stake in Network International, a credit card service provider in Dubai, for $544 million.
But then unrest in Tunisia erupted, quickly spreading to Egypt. It touched off concerns that countries with similar economic and political profiles, like Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, could be next, says Jeremie Le Febvre, the head of emerging markets for Triago, a global private equity firm with a base in Dubai.
Although hard numbers are not available for such a short time frame, private equity executives, industry consultants and financial professionals in the Middle East say deal makers are playing it safe for the moment.
''Investors need some form of reassurance that their interests will be protected,'' said Nasr-Eddine Benaissa, managing partner of the Eastgate Capital Group, one of the largest private equity firms based in Middle East.
Such reluctance is likely to flow through to fund-raising efforts, which have already been complicated by the crisis. Last year, Abraaj Capital said it would reduce the planned size of its fourth buyout fund to $2 billion, half its initial goal.
Initial public offerings, too, will remain weak, as long as the markets are volatile. Amid the revolt in Egypt, the 13 Arab bourses lost nearly $50 billion in value in the last week of January, according to a report by Kamco, the asset management arm of the investment firm Kipco, based in Kuwait.
''When the stock markets fell across the region following the unrest in Egypt and Tunisia, it implied that the I.P.O. market will sour - which means exits are very difficult for private equity companies until conditions improve,'' said Jochen Duelli, head of Bain's private equity practice in the Middle East.
Still, the Middle East, like many emerging markets, holds great promise for private equity. Economic growth is strong, propelled by oil exports. But the corporate landscape is underdeveloped, in need of outside investments and operating expertise.
That's why private equity has expanded its efforts in the region. Egypt alone now counts 17 buyout firms with headquarters or satellite offices there to scout investments, according to the research firm Preqin. Today, there are a total of 14 private equity funds committed to investing in Egypt, either exclusively or as part of a wider geographic focus.
In the short term, for foreign investors, ''there is uncertainty,'' said Mr. Benaissa of Eastgate. ''But if one takes a mid- to long-term view, the fundamentals remain attractive.''
Across much of the region, private equity firms have mainly concentrated on deals in consumer goods, tourism and commodities - the main industries driving the local economies. Citadel Capital, a private equity firm based in Egypt, sold the Egyptian Fertilizer Company to a consortium led by Abraaj Capital in a deal worth $1.4 billion in June 2007; it was the largest private equity sale ever in the Middle East.
Infrastructure also looks promising. InfraMed Infrastructure, founded in 2010, is looking to raise more than $1 billion to buy transportation, electric power, water and waste treatment companies. Bain & Company estimates that the value of infrastructure deals could reach $10 billion a year, more than double the amount for more traditional areas.
''The overall economy is in pause mode right now, and it does mean that foreign investment has disappeared,'' said Mr. Le Febvre of Triago. But ''there is still a need for schools, hospitals and infrastructure, so long-term private equity opportunities remain unchanged.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soldiers at the stock market in Cairo. As the Egyptian revolt unfolded, 13 Arab bourses lost nearly $50 billion in value in a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMED ALI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) EGYPT (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); TUNISIA (92%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



578 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 466 words

PERSON: George Bugliarello 

HEADLINE: George Bugliarello, 83, Visionary Engineer

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

 BODY:
George Bugliarello, who as president of Polytechnic Institute of New York spearheaded the creation of MetroTech, a 16-acre research park that spurred development in Downtown Brooklyn, died on Friday in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 83. 
The cause was complications from pneumonia, his wife, Virginia, said. Dr. Bugliarello lived in Port Washington, N.Y.
In the early 1970s, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, a private engineering institute, was in dire straits from a combination of cuts in federal aid and a dearth of students. It merged with the New York University School of Engineering and Science in 1973, becoming the Polytechnic Institute of New York. (It is now the Polytechnic Institute of New York University.)
Dr. Bugliarello initially declined an offer to serve as president of the new entity, because he ''could not believe that a great university could exist amid such terrible deterioration'' in Brooklyn, he recalled in an interview with The New York Times in 1989, when ground was broken for MetroTech.
Dr. Bugliarello increased fund-raising and enrollment and reduced faculty. By 1979, Polytechnic had a budget surplus, which Dr. Bugliarello used to remake the university and revitalize the neighborhood.
Dr. Bugliarello first conceived of a Brooklyn urban research park for business and education in 1975. MetroTech, a development of 4.7 million square feet, was completed in 1990, and the first tenants included Chase Manhattan Bank, Brooklyn Union Gas and Securities Industry Automation Corporation.
Giorgio Bugliarello was born on May 20, 1927, in Trieste, Italy. He studied engineering at the University of Padua and graduated in 1951.
He went to the University of Minnesota on a Fulbright scholarship and graduated in 1954 with a master's degree in civil engineering. In 1959, he received his doctorate in civil engineering and hydrodynamics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In 1960, he married Virginia Upton Harding. She survives him, as do his sons, David Wondrich and Nicholas Bugliarello-Wondrich; and three grandchildren. (Wondrich was Dr. Bugliarello's mother's family name.)
Dr. Bugliarello is credited with creating Hydro, a computer language for hydrology and hydraulic engineering; founding and serving as co-editor of the journal Technology in Society; and creating at Polytechnic the first American graduate program in financial engineering.
He served as dean of engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago from 1969 to 1973, when he accepted the job at Polytechnic. He served as president until 1994.
''We see our mission as that of a catalyst in the economic development of the region,'' Dr. Bugliarello said in 1986.
''If we can provide an environment that cannot be found in other cities,'' he added, ''then New York will continue to be extremely vital.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Bugliarello, former president of Polytechnic Institute of New York, left, with his successor, David C. Chang, in 1997. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ENGINEERING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (64%); PNEUMONIA (57%)

COMPANY: SECURITIES INDUSTRY AUTOMATION CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (66%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (68%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



579 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: As Talks Continue, Jets Tell Staff to Expect Furloughs

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Negotiators for N.F.L. owners and the players union met for the fourth consecutive day in the presence of a federal mediator Monday, just 11 days before the collective bargaining agreement is set to expire. While nobody is discussing what is being said behind closed doors in Washington, the sides have spent more than 25 hours together, by far their most consistent negotiating time toward a new deal.
They are expected to reconvene on Tuesday, the fifth of the scheduled seven days of negotiations with the mediator, George Cohen. Because mediation is nonbinding, either side could walk away from the negotiating table at any time. That it has not happened has provided a glimmer of hope that some progress is possible in what have been contentious negotiations. 
''Things are going well right now,'' the Pittsburgh Steelers backup quarterback Charlie Batch, a member of the union's executive committee, who has attended all four days of negotiations, told reporters as he left Monday's meeting. ''We'll see how things progress over the next couple days.''
Cohen requested a news media blackout on the talks, and the sides have abided by the request. If that remains the case, the first update on the talks could come Friday, when the union's executive director, DeMaurice Smith, is expected to address player agents at the scouting combine in Indianapolis. The union has made that meeting mandatory for agents, an unusual move that underscores the importance of the information that will be shared.
Next week, just one day before the collective bargaining agreement expires and a lockout would probably begin, N.F.L. owners are scheduled to meet outside Washington, a spot that was picked to be close to the mediator in case the sides were still working with him.
In the meantime, teams are preparing in case a deal is not reached. The Jets confirmed a Sports Business Journal report that 96 business-side employees would be required to take a one-week unpaid furlough each month until a labor deal was reached. If there is a lockout but no games are missed in the 2011 season, the employees will be reimbursed by the Jets for their lost wages. They will be able to collect unemployment during their missed time, the team said.
The Jets laid off 30 employees -- most of them involved in sales of personal seat licenses -- shortly after the season, and two years ago, when the economy slumped, business-side employees had to take two weeks of unpaid leave to avoid job cuts.
''Although we fully expect an agreement to be reached, it just makes sense to plan for the worst, and this plan is about shared sacrifice across the organization to get through a period of uncertainty,'' said Matt Higgins, the Jets' executive vice president for business operations, who will also be subject to the furlough. ''Rather than a straight reduction in salary, furloughs enable us to cut back expenses but also give employees some time off.''
The goal, according to the team, is to trim 25 percent from the Jets' budget. (Layoffs and salary cuts were also considered.) The football side of the Jets' operation -- coaches, trainers and scouts -- will face similar cuts, the team said, but those trims would not come through furloughs, at least not initially, until after the college draft at the end of April. The details of how the football operations side would make such cuts remain unresolved.
While furloughs will account for the biggest chunk of savings, the Jets will also trim other more rudimentary expenses by hiring few consultants, subscribing to fewer publications and scaling back on attendance at conferences.
If there is a new deal by March 3, the Jets will not have furloughs at all. For now, the Giants have no plans for furloughs or other significant cost-cutting measures. Other teams, and the league office, have made similar plans to reduce expenses if there is a lockout, including salary cuts for top league officials.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Steelers' Charlie Batch, left, and the Jets' Tony Richardson in Washington. The N.F.L. and the players are meeting with a mediator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); ATHLETES (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (68%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); NEW YORK JETS (91%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%) INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



580 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Danger Pent Up Behind Aging Dams

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
LAKE ISABELLA, Calif. -- Frank Brassell, owner of Nelda's Diner in this town wedged between the slopes of the southern Sierra Nevada, knows his fate should Lake Isabella Dam, a mile up the road, suddenly fail when the lake is full.
''I work here,'' Mr. Brassell said, looking around the brightly lighted diner. ''And I live right over there,'' he added, pointing across the town's main street.
''The water would all come down here and it would try to take a right turn and go under the freeway, and it wouldn't all go,'' he said.
''So I'm dead.'' 
Lake Isabella Dam is just one acute example of a widespread problem: Of the nation's 85,000 dams, more than 4,400 are considered susceptible to failure, according to the Association of State Dam Safety Officials. But repairing all those dams would cost billions of dollars, and it is far from clear who would provide all the money in a recessionary era.
The stakes are particularly high not just for Mr. Brassell and the other 4,000 residents of Lake Isabella, but for the 340,000 people who live in Bakersfield, 40 miles down the Kern River Canyon on the edge of California's vast agricultural heartland. The Army Corps of Engineers, which built and operates the 57-year-old dam, learned several years ago that it had three serious problems: it was in danger of eroding internally; water could flow over its top in the most extreme flood season; and a fault underneath it was not inactive after all but could produce a strong earthquake. In a worst case, a catastrophic failure could send as much as 180 billion gallons of water -- along with mud, boulders, trees and other debris, including, presumably, the ruins of Nelda's Diner -- churning down the canyon and into Bakersfield. The floodwaters would turn the downtown and residential neighborhoods into a lake up to 30 feet deep and spread to industrial and agricultural areas.
The potential is for a 21st-century version of the Johnstown Flood, a calamitous dam failure that killed more than 2,200 people in western Pennsylvania in 1889. But corps and local government officials say that the odds of such a disaster are extremely small, and that they have taken interim steps to reduce the risk, like preparing evacuation plans and limiting how much water can be stored behind the dam to less than two-thirds of the maximum.
Still, they acknowledge that the impact of a dam failure would be enormous. ''It's not just the loss of life, potentially,'' said David C. Serafini, lead technical expert for the corps on the project. ''It's the economic damages and the environmental damage, too.''
Corps engineers are preparing to propose fixes later this year. But at best, repairs would not begin until 2014 and could cost $500 million or more, money that would have to be approved by Congress.
Nationwide, the potential repair costs are staggering. A 2009 report by the state dam safety officials' group put the cost of fixing the most critical dams -- where failure could cause loss of life -- at $16 billion over 12 years, with the total cost of rehabilitating all dams at $51 billion. But those figures do not include Lake Isabella and other dams among the approximately 3,000 that are owned by the federal government. The corps, for example, says that more than 300 of the roughly 700 dams it is responsible for need safety-related repairs, and estimates the total fix-up bill at about $20 billion.
The corps has already spent about $24 million just to determine the scope of the problems at Lake Isabella, and with the New Orleans levee failures during Hurricane Katrina a lingering memory, Congress has appropriated money for other federal dam repair projects as well.
But about two-thirds of all dams are private, and financially struggling state and local governments own most of the remainder. It is difficult to predict how needed repairs to these dams will be financed; legislation to provide federal money to help has languished in Congress. What's more, the number of high-risk dams keeps rising as structures age, downstream development increases and more accurate information is obtained about watersheds and earthquake hazards.
Among the corps's dams, Lake Isabella is one of 12 that are ranked in the highest category, as a dam with serious problems and serious failure consequences, given the large downstream population. ''The classification is it's an unsafe dam,'' said Eric C. Halpin, the corps's special assistant for dam and levee safety. But Mr. Halpin noted that 319 of the corps's dams were considered ''actionable from a safety standpoint.''
Lake Isabella would be one of the more expensive projects, but then again, its problems are legion. It is actually two earthen dams, a main one that is 185 feet high and an auxiliary one that sits on higher ground and is 100 feet high. With a rock ridge between them, they stretch for about a mile across the Kern River Valley.
For six decades the dams have controlled flooding on the Kern, helping Bakersfield to grow and thrive. And the lake that formed behind the dam has become the main driver of the economy of Lake Isabella and other towns, bringing fishers, boaters and whitewater rafters to the area.
But there have always been people in the area who felt the dams were flawed.
David Laughing Horse Robinson, an artist and teacher who lives in the lakeside town of Kernville, said his grandfather, who worked on the dam, and others used to talk about it. ''Constantly,'' he said. ''How it was the stupidest thing they ever did. It's doomed.''
Water seeps through the Lake Isabella dams, as it does through most earthen dams, which account for a vast majority of dams in the United States. But the seepage at Lake Isabella was especially severe -- it is what prompted the corps to perform a full-scale study of the dam.
Water seeping through a dam can erode it from the inside out, to the point where the dam may fail. Engineers have learned to build structures into dams like drains and filters, to stop erosion and allow infiltrating water to drain safely away. But the Lake Isabella dams were constructed before such features became commonplace.
''It was built with the best available knowledge and technology at the time,'' said Veronica V. Petrovsky, who is managing the project for the corps.
That knowledge, or lack of it, extended to the understanding of the large and complex watershed, which includes the slopes of Mount Whitney, the tallest peak in the contiguous United States. To determine how big the spillway needs to be, it is critical to know how much water might be impounded behind the dam each year.
Calculations show that in an extreme year with a ''probable maximum flood,'' the spillway would be far too small. ''We could not release the water fast enough,'' Ms. Petrovsky said. ''It would overtop.'' An overtopped dam can fail quickly as the water erodes the downstream side.
Concerns about seepage, in particular, prompted the corps to restrict the lake level, because less water creates less hydrostatic pressure that would force water through the dam. Earlier this winter, the lake was so low that water did not even lap up against the auxiliary dam. But the corps has been monitoring the heavy rains and snowfall that California has experienced this winter and says that in the spring and summer it may be necessary to divert water through the spillway to maintain the safer lake level. Overtopping, however, presents only a ''small concern,'' the corps said.
With both seepage and overtopping there would be plenty of warning that the dam was in jeopardy, allowing Lake Isabella and Bakersfield residents to evacuate. An earthquake would be a more immediate disaster, although Bakersfield would still have about seven hours before a wall of water made its way down the canyon, according to the corps.
The auxiliary dam was built, knowingly, on the Kern Canyon fault, one of many in the region. At the time the corps brought in seismologists and geologists who concluded that the fault was not active.
Only recently have scientists been able to accurately detect and measure ancient earthquakes, a field known as paleoseismology. Mr. Serafini and others determined that there have been three significant earthquakes on the fault in the past 10,000 years. ''We have got a fairly active fault on our hands,'' Mr. Serafini said. The last quake occurred about 3,400 years ago, he added.
It's possible to construct a safe earthen dam on an active earthquake fault, by using the proper materials to minimize settlement or slumping when shaken, and including drains and filters to help stop the inevitable cracks from growing through erosion. Not only do the Lake Isabella dams lack those features, but the auxiliary dam was built on sediments that could turn into a virtual liquid in a quake, leading to even greater damage.
While Mr. Serafini and his team are still working on proposals, the likeliest solutions include blasting a much bigger spillway out of bedrock adjacent to the main dam and using the excavated rock to build a buttress -- essentially an entirely new dam -- downstream from the auxiliary dam. The old dam could still move in an earthquake, Mr. Serafini said, but the buttress would have the necessary drains and filters to prevent failure.
While the proposals are being fleshed out, the corps team has been holding meetings in the area to let people know what the possibilities are.
''We don't hear much from the people of Bakersfield,'' Ms. Petrovsky said. ''It's one of those 'out of sight, out of mind' things. You forget there's a dam up here holding back a lot of water.''
Not so in Lake Isabella, however, where the dam, and its potential for failure, are harder to ignore.
''I think we've all put some thought into it,'' said Mr. Brassell, the diner owner. ''But anytime you have a diverse group of people there are going to be those who are panicked at some level, and those who are calm. Faith in God, you know. He's going to do what he wants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A MATTER OF TIME: Engineers know that the Lake Isabella Dam lies on an active fault line. Below, a survey monument used to measure ground movement.
TOO CLOSE? Frank Brassell owns Nelda's Diner in Lake Isabella, Calif. Nelda's, named for Mr. Brassell's mother, is a mile from the dam.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) MAPS: A Looming Threat: The Lake Isabella Dam is made up of two earthen dams that straddle the Kern River Valley about 40 miles upstream from Bakersfield, Calif. The dams have serious problems, including an inadequate spillway and a lack of protection from earthquakes along the Kern Canyon fault, but repairs could cost $500 million or more. A catastrophic dam failure could submerge the town of Lake Isabella and send billions of gallons of water flowing into Bakersfield. (Sources: Army Corps of Engineers
City of Bakersfield) (MAPS BY ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
 U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY VIA GOOGLE EARTH)(D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); LAKES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); DAMAGES (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); ARMIES (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); EARTHQUAKES (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (94%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



581 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: No Rosy Future Ahead For Air Passengers

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I HAD reason to contemplate elementary physics last week when a fellow passenger, whom I shall sarcastically call Tiny, hauled himself into the middle seat beside me on a Southwest Airlines flight from Washington to Denver.
Tiny was not obese, mind you. He was just big. He looked to be the size of a Coke machine. Like many large people on airplanes, he struggled to contain his girth within his assigned space but found it impossible because -- here comes basic physics -- the airplane coach seat was a standard 17 inches wide while Tiny was considerably wider. Since I was on the aisle, I pivoted my torso and yielded him some space, but neither of us was comfortable on the long westward flight.
Still, I did have time to reflect on many of the things I had heard in Washington last week at the annual Aviation Forecast Conference sponsored by the Federal Aviation Administration. And my tight seat reminded me how simple physics seemed to be central to evaluating the formidable challenges facing the aviation industry and travelers over the next 20 years. 
Here are just a few factors to consider. According to the agency's forecast, the number of passengers boarding airlines based in the United States will nearly double by 2031, to about 1.3 billion, from an estimated 737.4 million this year. Already, the airplanes we're boarding are increasingly crowded. The industry is now averaging load factors (the term for the percentage of seats filled) well over 80 percent, and that figure is growing at an estimated rate, at least for the near term, of 2.1 percentage points a year.
''Planes continue to be full from front to back,'' said Nan Shellabarger, the F.A.A.'s director of aviation policy and plans. ''We are constantly amazed by how high the levels are, and how they keep moving upward.''
And if the planes are going to be more full, so, too, will be the big airports that handle most flights. The forecast predicted an ever-growing concentration of traffic in the 29 airports identified by the agency as major hubs, which now handle 70 percent of all passenger traffic. ''We are projecting that the concentration of demand will only increase'' at the biggest airports, Ms. Shellabarger said.
As a corollary to that, air service will continue to decrease at many of the 36 medium-size hubs and hundreds of smaller domestic commercial airports. The best indication of this dismal trend, by the way, is that airlines are increasingly getting rid of the models of regional jets that carry most passengers to and from midsize and smaller airports. As the agency's forecast says, ''We expect the percentage of 50-seat regional jets in service to fall.''
The agency notes that its forecast, which, by the way, points toward continued airline industry profitability, is based on optimism about a growing economy and other factors. It foresees oil prices, which averaged $74.11 last year but are now in the $95 range, ''approaching $100/barrel by 2018 and remaining at that level through 2026.''
Equally optimistic, it assumes that the long-delayed, very expensive and sometimes derided NextGen system, a major overhaul of the air traffic control system, will be fully put in place. The agency says the new system will reduce flight delays 21 percent by 2018 and cut carbon emissions, while introducing vast improvements in flight operations, including during bad weather. After all, while physics dictates that air space is finite, good technology can certainly find a way to use it more efficiently.
Ah, but we passengers are still left wondering how these trends will affect us and our cherished national system of convenient, readily accessible air travel, as vexing as it has often been lately. Air fares will keep rising, service will be less available and, of course, planes will stay crowded.
A few weeks ago, there was some good news about inflight comfort flickering on the horizon. At its so-called passenger experience offices near Seattle, Boeing showed off a new line of improvements to cabins, including seating designs that make better ergonomic use of existing interior space.
Airbus, the other major big-airliner manufacturer, has also been working on new ideas for cabin design in planes that carriers will need to buy to replace aging fleets. At the F.A.A. conference, Kevin Keniston, the director of market development and strategy for Airbus, spoke about those things.
But he also mentioned basic physics when I groused to him that airplane seats are too small. ''People,'' he said, ''are too big.''
Online Correction: February 21, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this column misstated the forecast for boarding passengers in 2031 as 1.3 million rather than billion.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); SPONSORSHIP (53%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (91%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



582 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: For South Korea, Internet at Blazing Speeds Is Still Not Fast Enough

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea already claims the world's fastest Internet connections -- the fastest globally by far -- but that is hardly good enough for the government here.
By the end of 2012, South Korea intends to connect every home in the country to the Internet at one gigabit per second. That would be a tenfold increase from the already blazing national standard and more than 200 times as fast as the average household setup in the United States.
A pilot gigabit project initiated by the government is under way, with 1,500 households in five South Korean cities wired. Each customer pays about 30,000 won a month, or less than $27.
''South Korean homes now have greater Internet access than we do,'' President Obama said in his State of the Union address last month. Last week, Mr. Obama unveiled an $18.7 billion broadband spending program. 
While Americans are clip-clopping along, trailing the Latvians and the Romanians in terms of Internet speed, the South Koreans are at a full gallop. Their average Internet connections are far faster than even No. 2 Hong Kong and No. 3 Japan, according to the Internet analyst Akamai Technologies.
Overseeing South Korea's audacious expansion plan is Choi Gwang-gi, 28, a soft-spoken engineer. He hardly looks the part of a visionary or a revolutionary as he pads around his government-gray office in vinyl slippers.
But Mr. Choi has glimpsed the future -- the way the Internet needs to behave for the next decade or so -- and he is trying to help Korea get there. During an interview at his busy office in central Seoul, Mr. Choi sketched out -- in pencil -- a tidy little schematic of the government's ambitious project.
''A lot of Koreans are early adopters,'' Mr. Choi said, ''and we thought we needed to be prepared for things like 3-D TV, Internet protocol TV, high-definition multimedia, gaming and videoconferencing, ultra-high-definition TV, cloud computing.''
Never mind that some of these devices and applications are still under development by engineers in Seoul, Tokyo and San Jose, Calif. For Mr. Choi, nothing seems outlandish, unthinkable or improbable anymore. And the government here intends to be ready with plenty of network speed when all the new ideas, games and gizmos come pouring out of the pipeline.
''The gigabit Internet is essential for the future, absolutely essential, and all the technologists will tell you this,'' said Don Norman, co-founder of the Nielsen Norman Group, a leading technology consultancy in Fremont, Calif. ''We're all going to be doing cloud computing, for example, and that won't work if you're not always connected. Games. Videoconferencing. Video on demand. All this will require huge bandwidth, huge speed.''
The South Korean project is also meant to increase wireless broadband services tenfold.
Even as South Korea aims for greater, faster connectivity, Internet addiction is already a worrisome social issue here. Deprogramming camps have sprung up to help Net-addicted youngsters.
One South Korean couple, arrested last year, became so immersed in a role-playing game at an Internet cafe that their 3-month-old daughter starved to death -- even as they fed and nurtured a virtual, online daughter named Anima.
But industry executives are plowing ahead.
''The name of the game is how fast you can get the content,'' said Kiyung Nam, a spokesman for the Korean consumer electronics giant Samsung Electronics. ''People want to download and enjoy their content on the go. But right now it's not seamless. It's not perfect.''
The idea of the gigabit Internet is not a new one, said Mr. Norman, the American consultant. But large-scale adoptions have not yet taken hold, especially outside Asia.
Hong Kong and Japan offer gigabit service. Australia has a plan in the works for 2018. Google is drafting pilot programs for part of the Stanford campus and other locales in the United States. And Chattanooga, Tenn., has started a citywide gigabit service, reportedly at a staggering $350 a month.
Any technical hurdles in upgrading the existing South Korean infrastructure are minimal, according to engineers and network managers. DSL lines -- high-speed conventional telephone wires -- will have to be replaced. But fiber-optic lines already widely in use are suitable for one-gigabit speeds.
South Korea, once poorer than Communist North Korea, now has the world's 13th-largest economy. It recovered from the ravages of the Korean War by yoking its economy to heavy industries like cars, steel, shipbuilding and construction. But when labor costs began to rise, competing globally in those sectors got tougher, so ''knowledge-based industries were the way forward,'' Mr. Choi said.
South Koreans pay an average of $38 a month for connections of 100 megabits a second, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Americans pay an average of $46 for service that is molasses by comparison.
Mr. Choi declined to guess what private South Korean service providers might charge for the one-gigabit service. But he said it would be nowhere near the $70 a month charged for gigabit rates in Japan.
''I can't imagine anyone in Korea paying that much,'' he said. ''No, no, that's unthinkable.''
Mr. Choi's gigabit program is just one of several Internet-related projects being coordinated by the government here over the next four years. Their overall cost is projected to be $24.6 billion, with the government expected to put up about $1 billion of that amount, according to the Korea Communications Commission.
Private South Korean firms, notably KT (the former Korea Telecom), SK Telecom and the cable provider CJ Hellovision, are the principal participants in the gigabit project. The government's financial contribution in 2010, Mr. Choi said, would be just $4.5 million.
For now, most Korean consumers use their blessings of bandwidth largely for lightning Internet access and entertainment -- multiplayer gaming, streaming Internet TV, fast video downloads and the like. Corporations are doing more high-definition videoconferencing, especially simultaneous sessions with multiple overseas clients, and technologists are eager to see what new businesses will be created or how existing businesses will be enhanced through the new gigabit capability.
One of the customers already connected to Mr. Choi's pilot program is Moon Ki-soo, 42, an Internet consultant. He got a gigabit hookup about a year ago through CJ Hellovision, although because of the internal wiring of his apartment building his actual connection speed clocks in at 278 megabits a second.
But even that speed -- about a quarter-gigabit -- has him dazzled.
''It is so much more convenient to watch movies and drama shows now,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about superfast Internet services in South Korea misstated the number of households involved in a pilot project. Under the program, which aims to connect customers to the Internet at speeds of up to one gigabit per second, 1,500 homes in five South Korean cities have so far been connected, not 5,000 homes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Choi Gwang-gi is overseeing South Korea's plan to connect every home in the country to the Internet at one gigabit per second by the end of next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WOOHAE CHO FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (73%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); BROADBAND (68%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (66%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (61%)

COMPANY: AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES INC (55%)

TICKER: AKAM (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



583 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: F.D.I.C. Is Said to Weigh Suing Leaders of Washington Mutual

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has sent letters to several former executives of Washington Mutual warning that it was considering taking legal action tied to their role in the collapse of the savings bank, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. 
F.D.I.C. officials have discussed seeking damages of up to $1 billion, but the talks are still continuing and the agency could decide to drop its claims against all or some of the former executives, this person added.
It was unclear when any final decision would be made. An F.D.I.C. spokesman, Andrew Gray, declined to comment on Monday.
The bank's critics argue that Kerry Killinger, Washington Mutual's longtime chief executive, oversaw an aggressive push into risky subprime mortgage lending that ultimately drove the bank to the brink. But Mr. Killinger and other WaMu officers denied any wrongdoing, insisting that they acted prudently but fell victim to the turbulent markets of 2008.
The news of the letters was first reported by The Puget Sound Business Journal.
The F.D.I.C. has filed four civil lawsuits against former directors and officers at hundreds of banks that were closed during the financial crisis. Any claims against former executives of Washington Mutual would not be unusual, though the case has already been one of the agency's biggest and most controversial seizures.
F.D.I.C. regulators closed Washington Mutual in September 2008, selling its assets and branches to JPMorgan Chase for $1.8 billion. That deal has come under scrutiny from WaMu bondholders, who have spent two years waging an attack against JPMorgan and the F.D.I.C. over how to split up the remnants.
The courtroom battle has also spilled onto Capitol Hill, where lawmakers have held hearings over whether Washington Mutual was prematurely shut. At a Senate subcommittee hearing last April, Mr. Killinger testified that his company had been treated unfairly and ''should have been given a chance to survive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DAMAGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (96%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%); PUGET SOUND BUSINESS JOURNAL INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (96%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: KERRY K KILLINGER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011



584 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Next Teller, Please (2.4 Miles Away)

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Christopher Maag contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Until it closed its doors in December, the Ohio Savings Bank branch on North Moreland Boulevard was a neighborhood anchor in Cleveland, midway between the mansions of Shaker Heights and the ramshackle bungalows of the city's east side. Now it sits boarded up, a victim not only of Cleveland's economic troubles but also of a broader trend of bank branch closings that is falling more heavily on low- and moderate-income neighborhoods across the country.
In 2010, for the first time in 15 years, more bank branches closed than opened across the United States. An analysis of government data shows, however, that even as banks shut branches in poorer areas, they continued to expand in wealthier ones, despite decades of government regulations requiring financial institutions to meet the credit needs of poor and middle-class neighborhoods.
The number of bank branches fell to 98,517 in 2010, from 99,550 the previous year, a loss of nearly 1,000 locations, according to data compiled by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Banks are expected to keep closing branches in the coming years, partly because of new technology and automation and partly because of the mortgage bust and the financial crisis of 2008. New regulations will also cut deeply into revenue, including restrictions on fees for overdraft protection -- a major moneymaker on accounts aimed at lower-income customers. Yet the local branch remains a crucial part of the nation's financial infrastructure, banking analysts say, even as more customers manage their accounts via the Internet and mobile phones.
''In a competitive environment, banks are cutting costs and closing branches, but there are social costs to that decision,'' said Mark T. Williams, a banking expert at Boston University and a former bank examiner for the Federal Reserve. ''When a branch gets pulled out of a low- or moderate-income neighborhood, it's not as if those needs go away.''
Mr. Williams and other observers express concern that the vacuum will be filled by so-called predatory lenders, including check-cashing centers, payday loan providers and pawnshops. The F.D.I.C. estimates that roughly 30 million American households either have no bank account or rely on these more expensive alternatives to traditional banking.
The most recent wave of closures gathered steam after the financial crisis in 2008, as banks of all sizes staggered under the weight of bad home loans. In some cases, banks with heavy exposure to risky mortgage debt simply cut branches as part of a broader restructuring. In other cases, banking companies merged and closed branches to consolidate.
Whatever the cause, there were sharp disparities in how the closures played out from 2008 to 2010, according to a detailed analysis by The New York Times of data from SNL Financial, an information provider for the banking industry. Using data culled from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and ESRI, a private geographic information firm, SNL matched up the location of closed branches with census data from the surrounding neighborhood.
In low-income areas, where the median household income was below $25,000, and in moderate-income areas, where the medium household income was between $25,000 and $50,000, the number of branches declined by 396 between 2008 and 2010. In neighborhoods where household income was above $100,000, by contrast, 82 branches were added during the same period.
''You don't have to be a statistician to see that there's a dual financial system in America, one for essentially middle- and high-income consumers, and another one for the people that can least afford it,'' said John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a group that advocates for expanding financial services in underserved communities.
''In those neighborhoods, you won't see bank branches,'' he added. ''You'll see buildings that used to be banks, surrounded by payday lenders and check cashers that cropped up.''
Wayne A. Abernathy, an executive vice president of the American Bankers Association, disputed Mr. Taylor's conclusion, as well as the significance of the data.
''You need to look at the context,'' he said. ''We're looking at a pool of more than 95,000 branches, and we've had several hundred banks fail, so what would be surprising is if no branches had closed.''
The Community Reinvestment Act, signed into law more than three decades ago in an effort to combat discrimination and encourage banks to serve local communities, requires financial institutions to notify federal regulators of branch closings. But legal experts say the federal watchdogs that are supposed to enforce the law have been timid.
''The C.R.A. has been a financial Maginot Line -- weakly defended and quickly overrun,'' said Raymond H. Brescia, a professor at Albany Law School. What's more, Mr. Brescia said, while closing branches violates the spirit of the law, if not the letter, he could not recall a single example in which a bank was cited by regulators under the C.R.A. for branch closures in recent years. ''The C.R.A leaves banks a lot of leeway,'' he said, ''and regulators have not wielded their power with much force.''
Even as more customers turn to online banking, said Kathleen Engel, a law professor at Suffolk University in Boston, the presence of brick-and-mortar branches encourages ''a culture of savings,'' beginning with passbook accounts for children and visits to the local bank. ''If we lose branch banking in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, banks stop being central to the culture in those communities,'' said Ms. Engel, author of a new book, ''The Subprime Virus: Reckless Credit, Regulatory Failure and Next Steps.''
Among individual financial institutions, especially those hit hard by the mortgage mess, the differences between rich and poor communities were especially marked.
Regions Financial, based in Birmingham, Ala., had 107 fewer branches serving low- and moderate-income neighborhoods in 2010 than it did in 2008. The company, which has yet to repay $3.5 billion in federal bailout money, shuttered just one branch in a high-income neighborhood, according to SNL Financial.
At Zions Bancorporation, a Utah lender battered by losses on commercial real estate loans, branches in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods dropped by 24, compared with a decrease of just one branch in an upper-income area. It still owes the federal government $1.4 billion in bailout money. A spokesman for Zions said the branch closings reflected a strategic move to exit all supermarket locations as well as merger-related consolidation, rather than a withdrawal from particular neighborhoods.
A similar trend is evident at some larger institutions. Bank of America closed 25 branches in moderate-income areas and opened 14 in the richest areas, according to the SNL data. Citigroup, whose branch network is smaller than Bank of America's, closed two branches in the poorest areas and opened three in the wealthiest.
The head of Citigroup's global consumer business, Manuel Medina-Mora, made no secret of his bank's intention to focus on the wealthy in the country, telling a Wall Street investor conference in November that ''in retail banking, we will focus our growth in the emergent affluent and affluent segments in major cities -- exactly in line with our global consumer banking strategy.''
Comparisons for two other giants, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase, are more difficult because of the addition of thousands of branches in all categories in 2008 as they absorbed Wachovia and Washington Mutual, both of which were pushed to the brink by mortgage losses. From 2009 to 2010, however, Wells closed 57 branches in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, and shut 20 in upper-income census tracts.
JPMorgan Chase, which emerged from the turmoil of 2008 as the healthiest of the big banks, actually opened 11 branches in low- and moderate neighborhoods, while it closed one in the $100,000-plus communities.
A spokeswoman for Bank of America, Anne Pace, defended her company's record, noting that more than one-third of its new branch openings in 2011 would be in low- and moderate-income communities.
Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Regions Financial disputed the statistics provided by SNL, arguing that the number of branches closed in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods was overstated. The three banks insisted they are committed to serving all customers and communities, regardless of the income level.
In Cleveland, the closing of the Ohio Savings branch in December was one more bit of fallout from the financial crisis, according to Chris Warren, the city's chief of regional development.
A year earlier, New York Community Bancorp took over the assets of AmTrust Bank, now operating as Ohio Savings Bank in Ohio, after it was shut by the federal Office of Thrift Supervision. The F.D.I.C.'s deposit insurance fund took a $2 billion loss as a result of the closing. The North Moreland branch was the only one of Ohio Savings' 29 branches in the state to close.
''This was their introduction of their approach to community investment in this city,'' Mr. Warren said. ''They closed down the only branch Ohio Savings had in a low-to-moderate-income, African-American neighborhood.''
A spokeswoman for New York Community Bank said the branch was closed only because the bank was unable to reach a new agreement on a lease. She said customers could choose other branches nearby, including an Ohio Savings branch 2.4 miles way.
That is little comfort to customers like Lucretia Clay, who manages a store nearby and lives within walking distance of the now-shuttered branch. ''I've given that bank a lot of money over the years,'' she said. ''So they should be here in the community. I shouldn't have to drive forever to go find them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Ohio Savings Bank branch that closed in Cleveland. More branches closed than opened last year, a loss of nearly 1,000. (B1)
 The A.T.M. alcove at the closed bank in Cleveland. One worry is that predatory lenders may move in when branches close. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Fewer Bank Branches for Those Who Have Less: From 2008 to 2010, in general, some big banks closed branches in areas where residents have lower incomes and opened more where the residents are more affluent. (Source: SNL Financial) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK BRANCHES (93%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); FAIR LENDING (71%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (58%)

TICKER: NYCB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



585 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Union Leader Minces No Words When Labor Issues Are at Stake

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
MADISON, Wis. -- As executive director of the main union of Wisconsin state employees, Marty Beil is at the vortex of the hurricane here -- and that makes some union members gulp.
A bear of a man, Mr. Beil has been known to use razor-clawed insults to maul government officials who anger him. When a former Democratic state senator took a job in the administration of Wisconsin's new Republican governor, Scott Walker, Mr. Beil said he was engaging in ''the world's oldest profession'' -- prostitution.
And when the State Senate president, a Democrat whom unions had often endorsed, provided a pivotal vote in December to torpedo a contract Mr. Beil had negotiated with the departing Democratic governor, Mr. Beil called the man ''a whore.''
Now, as Mr. Walker pushes a budget bill that would force most public employees to pay more toward health care and retirement benefits and largely eliminate their collective bargaining rights, many eyes are on Mr. Beil (pronounced beel) to see whether his combative style can win over a skeptical public and achieve results with a governor who is hardly a shrinking violet himself. 
Despite -- or perhaps because of -- his abrasive language, Mr. Beil, executive director of the Wisconsin State Employees Union, can certainly be effective in stirring labor's troops. His behind-the-scenes work and organizing skills have helped transform Madison into a national battleground over labor rights as tens of thousands of union members and supporters have demonstrated at the Capitol. These protests, which many other unions have helped organize, have come to resemble a labor version of Woodstock.
''It's absolutely clear that the governor's budget bill is all about taking away our right to bargain collectively and organize into unions,'' said Mr. Beil, 64, who first took a job with the state of Wisconsin in 1969, as a probation officer. ''It's difficult for us to understand how stripping people of their collective bargaining rights will help close a hole in this fiscal year's budget.''
His battle with Mr. Walker is the toughest fight of Mr. Beil's career. Already, the union has agreed to Mr. Walker's demands to have public employees pay more toward their pensions and health coverage, translating into a 7 percent cut in pay.
Those concessions drew a moment of gloating from Mr. Walker at a Monday news conference. ''That's an interesting development, because a week ago they said that's not acceptable,'' he said.
Mr. Walker says passing his ''budget repair'' bill will give the state, cities and school districts the flexibility they need to cut costs while minimizing layoffs, not just this year, but in future ones, too.
''It sets the table to make sure we can balance the $3.6 billion budget we face,'' he said Monday. ''On top of that, we need to make sure that we are giving local governments the tools they need to balance their budgets.''
Mr. Walker has made no secret that he believes Mr. Beil and his parent union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which has 68,000 members in Wisconsin, are obstacles to necessary change.
Back in December, before taking office, Mr. Walker lobbied hard to persuade the Legislature to vote down a tentative contract that Mr. Beil had negotiated, saying it did not save enough money despite its two-year wage freeze.
Mr. Beil hung tough at the time, likening Mr. Walker to ''the plantation owner talking to the slaves.''
Speaking of Mr. Beil's stance then, William Powell Jones, a labor historian at the University of Wisconsin, said: ''My sense is his position was, 'We're in a position of power. We don't negotiate.' It's certainly not the kind of thing to make an anti-union public sympathetic to the union movement.''
With the nation watching, Mr. Beil reversed course last week and accepted Mr. Walker's demand that public employees pay 5.8 percent of their salaries toward their pensions and double their contributions toward health coverage. Union leaders said that since they had now met the governor halfway, he should compromise by dropping his plan to curb bargaining rights.
But Mr. Walker has held firm. For his part, Mr. Beil said his union would never agree to the bargaining limits.
''It's all about taking our rights away,'' he said. ''Whether you're a teacher, a state employee, a municipal employee, under his bill, your rights are gone to sit down as an equal at the bargaining table to work out issues like work schedules or how to transfer to another job or where do you work. All that would be gone.''
A key Walker ally in the Legislature, Speaker Jeff Fitzgerald, a Republican, called Mr. Beil ''very combative'' and added: I think Marty has unfortunately been out of touch for a while. He has probably led his members in the wrong direction.''
Last month, Mr. Beil called Mr. Fitzgerald and his brother, Scott, the new Senate president, ''lightweights'' as well as ''crybabies and whiners.''
Such comments anger not just legislators, but also members of the public. A recent letter to The Wisconsin State Journal, a Madison daily, began, ''Memo to Marty Beil: Take a vacation -- a long one -- and quit your never-ending sniping at Gov. Scott Walker and anyone else who disagrees with you.''
Mr. Beil acknowledged, ''I can be a lightning rod.'' He said he upset many rank-and-file workers in the 1990s when he twice endorsed Tommy Thompson, a Republican, for re-election as governor.
''I will support Republicans or Democrats, whoever is good for us,'' he said.
Mr. Beil says he just tells it like it is. His role is to fight for labor, he said, and he seems stunned that much of the public has turned so suddenly against public-employee unions.
''The average working person is under a lot of pressure from the economic downturn,'' he said. ''There's a lot of anger out there, a lot of fear, and that was played by the right wing against us.''
''We're as much a victim as anybody else,'' he continued. ''Public employees did not create the recession and the deficit here in Wisconsin. It was Wall Street.''
Ever since Mr. Walker announced his plan to curb bargaining rights, Mr. Beil has worked closely with other Wisconsin labor leaders. Every day, he confers with Phil Neuenfeldt, president of the Wisconsin State A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Mary Bell, president of the Wisconsin Education Association Council, which represents 98,000 school employees, to strategize on how best to mobilize support, often by using phone banks, e-mail blasts and Facebook.
''Marty is very passionate and cares deeply about what happens to his members,'' Mr. Neuenfeldt said.
Asked whether Mr. Beil sometimes goes too far, unnecessarily alienating people, Mr. Neuenfeldt answered, ''As I said, he's very passionate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marty Beil, executive director of the Wisconsin State Employees Union, has become the public face of labor's fight. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); HISTORIC SITES (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



586 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Why Cuts Don't Bring Prosperity

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
Washington
Remember the German economic boom of 2010?
Germany's economic growth surged in the middle of last year, causing commentators both there and here to proclaim that American stimulus had failed and German austerity had worked. Germany's announced budget cuts, the commentators said, had given private companies enough confidence in the government to begin spending their own money again.
Well, it turns out the German boom didn't last long. With its modest stimulus winding down, Germany's growth slowed sharply late last year, and its economic output still has not recovered to its prerecession peak. Output in the United States -- where the stimulus program has been bigger and longer lasting -- has recovered. This country would now need to suffer through a double-dip recession for its gross domestic product to be in the same condition as Germany's. 
Yet many members of Congress continue to insist that budget cuts are the path to prosperity. The only question in Washington seems to be how deeply to cut federal spending this year.
If the economy were at a different point in the cycle -- not emerging from a financial crisis -- the coming fight over spending could actually be quite productive. Republicans could force Democrats to make government more efficient, which Democrats rarely do on their own. Democrats could force Republicans to abandon the worst of their proposed cuts, like those to medical research, law enforcement, college financial aid and preschools. And maybe such a benevolent compromise can still occur over the next several years.
The immediate problem, however, is the fragility of the economy. Gross domestic product may have surpassed its previous peak, but it's still growing too slowly for companies to be doing much hiring. States, of course, are making major cuts. A big round of federal cuts will only make things worse.
So if the opponents of deep federal cuts, starting with President Obama, are trying to decide how hard to fight, they may want to err on the side of toughness. Both logic and history make this case.
Let's start with the logic. The austerity crowd argues that government cuts will lead to more activity by the private sector. How could that be? The main way would be if the government were using so many resources that it was driving up their price and making it harder for companies to use them.
In the early 1990s, for instance, government borrowing was pushing up interest rates. When the deficit began to fall, interest rates did too. Projects that had not previously been profitable for companies suddenly began to make sense. The resulting economic boom brought in more tax revenue and further reduced the deficit.
But this virtuous cycle can't happen today. Interest rates are already very low. They're low because the financial crisis and recession caused a huge drop in the private sector's demand for loans. Even with all the government spending to fight the recession, overall demand for loans has remained historically low, the data shows.
Similarly, there is no evidence that the government is gobbling up too many workers and keeping them from the private sector. When John Boehner, the speaker of the House, said last week that federal payrolls had grown by 200,000 people since Mr. Obama took office, he was simply wrong. The federal government has added only 58,000 workers, largely in national security, since January 2009. State and local governments have cut 405,000 jobs over the same span.
The fundamental problem after a financial crisis is that businesses and households stop spending money, and they remain skittish for years afterward. Consider that new-vehicle sales, which peaked at 17 million in 2005, recovered to only 12 million last year. Single-family home sales, which peaked at 7.5 million in 2005, continued falling last year, to 4.6 million. No wonder so many businesses are uncertain about the future.
Without the government spending of the last two years -- including tax cuts -- the economy would be in vastly worse shape. Likewise, if the federal government begins laying off tens of thousands of workers now, the economy will clearly suffer.
That's the historical lesson of postcrisis austerity movements. The history is a rich one, too, because people understandably react to a bubble's excesses by calling for the reverse. When Franklin Roosevelt was running for president in 1932, he repeatedly called for a balanced budget.
But no matter how morally satisfying austerity may be, it's the wrong answer. Hoover's austere instincts worsened the Depression. Roosevelt's postelection reversal helped, but he also prolonged the Depression by raising taxes and cutting spending in 1937. Only the giant stimulus program known as World War II finally ended the Depression. When the private sector is hesitant to spend, the government has to -- or no one will.
Our recent crisis serves up the same lesson. Germany isn't even the best example. Its response to the crisis has had some successful features, like an hours-reduction program to minimize layoffs, and Germany's turn to austerity has not been radical. Britain's has been radical, with a tax increase having already taken effect and deep spending cuts coming. Partly as a result, Britain's economy is now in worse shape than Germany's.
''It's really quite striking how well the U.S. is performing relative to the U.K., which is tightening aggressively,'' says Ian Shepherdson, a Britain-based economist for the research firm High Frequency Economics, ''and relative to Germany, which is tightening more modestly.'' Mr. Shepherdson adds that he generally opposes stimulus programs for a normal recession but that they are crucial after a crisis.
The trick is finding the political will to end the stimulus when the time comes. That is not easy, especially for Democrats, given that stimulus programs tend to include policies they favor. But the wave of recently elected Republicans, in Congress and the states, will no doubt be happy to help summon that political will.
For the sake of the economy, the best compromise in coming weeks would be one that trades short-term spending for medium- and long-term cuts. Beef up the cost-control measures in the health care overhaul and add new ones, like malpractice reform. Cut more wasteful military programs, like the F-35 jet engine. Force more social programs to prove they work -- and cut their funding in future years if they don't.
By all means, though, don't follow the path of the Germans and the British just because it feels morally satisfying.

GRAPHIC: CHART: REAL GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (Source: Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (63%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (52%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



587 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Thousands March on Capitols as Union Turmoil Spreads

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and A. G. SULZBERGER; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Columbus, and A. G. Sulzberger from Madison, Wis. Reporting was contributed by Bob Driehaus from Cincinnati, Steven Greenhouse from Madison and Robert Gebeloff, Sarah Wheaton and Timothy Williams from New York.

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- First Wisconsin. Now Ohio and Indiana.
Battles with public employees' unions spread on Tuesday, with Republican-dominated Legislatures pressing bills that would weaken collective bargaining and thousands of pro-union protesters marching on Capitol buildings in Columbus and Indianapolis.
After a week of upheaval in Madison, Wis., where the thumping din of protesters has turned almost celebratory, the battle moved to Ohio, where the Legislature held hearings on a bill that would effectively end collective bargaining for state workers and drastically reduce it for local government employees like police officers and firefighters.
Several thousand pro-union protesters filled a main hall of the state courthouse in Columbus and gathered in a large crowd outside, chanting ''Kill the bill,'' waving signs and playing drums and bagpipes. There were no official estimates, but the numbers appeared to be smaller than those in Madison last week. One Democratic state legislator put the figure at 15,000. 
In Indiana, nearly all of the Democratic members of the state's House of Representatives stayed away from a legislative session on Tuesday in an effort to stymie a bill that they say would weaken collective bargaining. By late Tuesday, they seemed to have succeeded in running down a clock on the bill, which was to expire at midnight. Representative Brian Bosma, the speaker of the Indiana House, said the bill would die when the deadline passed.
Fleeing was not an option for Ohio Democrats because the Republicans had enough members on their side for a quorum. Republicans have a 23-to-10 majority in the Ohio Senate, and the bill needs 17 votes to pass. It was not clear when it would be voted on.
The bills have amounted to the largest assault on collective bargaining in recent memory, labor experts said, striking at the heart of an American labor movement that is already atrophied.
''I think we are looking at the future of the labor movement being defined in rotundas in several states,'' said Harley Shaiken, a professor at University of California, Berkeley, specializing in labor issues. ''This is a structural change with profound repercussions.''
The Ohio bill was introduced this month by a Republican senator, Shannon Jones, who said it was intended to give state and local governments more control over their finances in hard economic times. But opponents say the bill is about politics, calling it a direct attack on the unions, which have long been reliable Democratic supporters.
''They're using a fiscal challenge as an excuse to consolidate political power,'' said former Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat, who was in the crowd of protesters in Columbus.
Rob Nichols, a spokesman for Gov. John R. Kasich, a Republican, strongly denied that characterization.
''This is nothing more than an effort to reduce the cost of governance so we can start to create jobs,'' he said by telephone. ''This is an effort to save the state, no agendas.''
Ohio is facing an $8 billion budget deficit, about 15 percent of its two-year budget, far less than states like California, Illinois and New Jersey, but still significant, and Mr. Kasich says drastic steps are required to plug the gap.
''The state is at a point of no return,'' said Chris Kershner, a Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce vice president, who testified last week before the Senate committee overseeing the bill. ''Change must happen now if Ohio emerges solvent from the current fiscal situation.''
Some in the Columbus crowd compared themselves to protesters in Egypt: a growing movement of people who will not take it anymore. But labor experts and political analysts were skeptical.
Unionized workers represented just 6.9 percent of all workers in the private sector in 2010, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics down from about 36 percent in 1955. The number of unionized workers in the public sector has held steady at about 35 percent since the late '70s.
''Seven percent in the United States makes them a very rare breed,'' said Richard Freeman, an economist at Harvard. ''I don't think there's a high probability that this will be an explosive event where the average American says, 'Wait, this is what's left of the middle class -- what are you doing?' ''
In Wisconsin, Senate Democrats remained in hiding across the state line, depriving the chamber the quorum needed to take up the budget repair bill, which includes provisions they view as an attack on public sector unions.
Meanwhile, Gov. Scott Walker, who introduced the legislation, warned that if the bill was not passed, layoff notices could be sent to state workers as early as next week.
Seeking to increase pressure on Mr. Walker to compromise, the South Central Wisconsin Federation of Labor announced on Tuesday that it had endorsed a rare labor action -- a general strike that would begin if he signed the bill that would curb collective bargaining rights.
The federation, which represents 45,000 unionized workers in the Madison area, said it was not a formal call for a general strike, but the first step toward preparing for an eventual strike. .
The Ohio bill, if passed, would do away with the legal protections passed in 1983 governing collective bargaining for state workers, including prohibitions on hiring alternate workers during a strike. Bargaining power would be weakened for local workers, doing away with binding arbitration, an option favored by police officers and firefighters, who are not allowed to strike.
It would also slice into public-worker benefits by taking health insurance off the bargaining table and requiring government workers to pay at least 20 percent of the cost. It would strip automatic pay increases and mandatory sick days for teachers.
The bill could have political repercussions for Ohio Republicans, who draw some of their votes from union members. Jeremy Mendenhall, president of the Ohio Troopers Association, who is an active duty sergeant and a registered Republican, said he was angry with his party for pushing it.
''People won't forget this in 2012,'' he said.
But Republicans could also gain, said Gene Beaupre, a political science professor at Xavier University in Cincinnati. Taking a cost-cutting position against unions is part of the mantra for far-right groups like the Tea Party, and not necessarily unpopular.
''There is a strong sentiment against pension benefits and all that has accrued over the years as a result of organized public labor,'' Mr. Beaupre said.
For the working class in Ohio, government jobs are highly desirable, with the median salary about 20 percent more than in the private sector, according to 2009 data from the Census Bureau. This is partly because employees tend to be more skilled: more than half of state and local workers have college degrees, far more than in the private sector. But among college graduates, public workers make less than those in the private sector.
Public employees say they have sacrificed. The Ohio Civil Service Employees Association said they had taken five pay cuts in nine years with a savings to the most recent budget of about $250 million.
Monty Blanton, 50, who worked for 31 years as a food service worker and an electrician in a state facility for mentally retarded people, made a gross salary of $44,000 before retirement. His pension, he said, stands at $19,500, barely enough to live on.
''We're barely making a living wage,'' he said. ''I don't think they understand how hard it is in southeastern Ohio.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ohio: In Columbus on Tuesday, demonstrators protested a Senate bill that would effectively end collective bargaining for state workers and allow the hiring of alternate workers during a strike. It would also end binding arbitration, an option favored by police officers and firefighters, who are not allowed to strike. The state's projected deficit is $8 billion, or 11 percent of its budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. D. POOLEY/GETTY IMAGES)
Indiana: Demonstrators on Tuesday at the Statehouse in Indianapolis, where proposed Republican measures would make Indiana a right-to-work state -- where workers cannot be required to join a union -- and ban collective bargaining by public workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM STRATTMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Wisconsin: Several Republican state senators talked during a recess Tuesday at the Capitol in Madison. Gov. Scott Walker's proposal would prohibit collective bargaining by public sector workers for issues beyond wages and limit pay raises to a certain level without approval by public referendum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY PHELPS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11)
Barb Phillips, above, a school bus driver, at a protest in Columbus, Ohio. Demonstrations in Indianapolis, at left, and in front of the State Capitol in Madison, Wis., bottom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. D. POOLEY/GETTY IMAGES
TOM STRATTMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: TED STRICKLAND (59%); JOHN KASICH (58%); SCOTT WALKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (97%); MADISON, WI, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) OHIO, USA (97%); INDIANA, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



588 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Soars As Libyan Furor Shakes Markets

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Clifford Krauss reported from Houston and Christine Hauser from New York.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- The political turmoil sweeping the Arab world drove oil prices sharply higher and stocks much lower on Tuesday despite efforts by Saudi Arabia to calm turbulent markets.
The unrest that has spread from Tunisia to Libya pushed oil prices to a two-year high and has spurred an increase in gasoline prices. The specter of rising energy costs and accelerating inflation in turn unsettled investors.
Oil is now at a price not seen since the recession began, and it is more than $20 above goals set in recent months by Saudi officials as strong enough to satisfy the top producers but not so strong they might suffocate the global economic recovery. 
Although there are still plentiful supplies of oil and gasoline in the United States and in much of the world, American consumers are now paying an average of $3.17 a gallon for regular gasoline, a steep rise of 6 cents a gallon over the last week, according to the AAA daily fuel gauge report. With consumers paying roughly 50 cents more a gallon than a year ago, analysts are warning that prices could easily top $3.50 by the summer driving season.
''Higher energy prices act like a tax on consumers, reducing the amount of discretionary purchasing power that they have,'' said Lawrence R. Creatura, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors. ''It represents an additional, potential headwind for retailers.''
Those concerns helped send the Dow Jones industrial average down 178.46 points, or 1.44 percent, to 12,212.79. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 27.57 points, or 2.05 percent, to 1,315.44, while the Nasdaq composite index lost 77.53 points, or 2.74 percent, to 2,756.42. Markets in Asia and Europe were also lower. Treasury prices rose in the United States.
Saudi Arabia's oil minister sought to reassure the markets on Tuesday, saying that OPEC was ready to pump more oil to compensate for any decline. At least 50,000 barrels a day of output has already been halted in Libya. That is only a fraction of the country's production, but with foreign oil companies beginning to shut down operations and evacuate workers and with local ports closing, more output could be lost.
''OPEC is ready to meet any shortage in supply when it happens,'' the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said at a news conference after a meeting of ministers of oil producing and consuming nations in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. ''There is concern and fear, but there is no shortage.''
Europe appears most immediately vulnerable to the strife in Libya, which produces almost 2 percent of the world's oil. More than 85 percent of its exports go to Europe; more than a third goes to Italy alone. Libya sends only a small fraction of its oil to the United States, but because oil is a world commodity, Americans are not immune to the price shock waves.
In New York, crude oil for March delivery gained $7.37, or 8.6 percent, to $93.57 a barrel, while oil for April delivery rose 6.4 percent, to $95.42 a barrel. Brent crude, a European benchmark traded in London, rose 4 cents, to $105.78. Refineries on the East and West Coasts also depend on Brent crude, meaning that the higher prices paid by Europeans are also pushing up gasoline and heating oil prices paid by many New Yorkers, New Englanders and other Americans.
Tom Kloza, the chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, estimated that the Saudis could pump an additional 1 million to 1.5 million barrels in a matter of days. As the largest producer, Saudi Arabia is by far the most influential member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, with a reserve capacity to deliver an additional four million to five million barrels to the world markets after several weeks of preparation. That is more than twice the oil that world markets would lose if production were halted completely by unrest in Libya.
''Unless this unrest spreads to the streets of Jeddah and Riyadh,'' Mr. Kloza said, ''I think it's a very manageable situation and prices are closer to cresting than they are to exploding higher.''
While Libya has been the immediate cause for the spike in oil prices recently, oil experts said traders were driving up prices because of concerns that a long period of instability in the Middle East was just beginning. They identified the protests in Bahrain in particular as a disturbing sign that neighboring Saudi Arabia might not be immune to the spreading political contagion.
Bahrain produces little oil, but it is connected to the oil-rich eastern region of Saudi Arabia by a 15-mile causeway. The island nation has a majority Shiite population with cultural and religious ties to the Saudi Shiite minority that lives close to some of the richest Saudi oil fields.
Saudi rulers have long feared that its regional rival, Iran, could try to destabilize Bahrain as a way to cause trouble for the Saudi royal family. Iran's intentions became all the more worrisome to the Saudis when it decided this month to send two warships through the Suez Canal for the first time in more than 30 years.
''No one knows where this ends,'' said Helima L. Croft, a director and senior geopolitical strategist at Barclays Capital. ''A couple of weeks ago it was Tunisia and Egypt, and it was thought this can be contained to North Africa and the resource-poor Middle East countries. But now with protests in Bahrain, that's the heart of the gulf, and it's adding to anxieties.''
Middle Eastern oil fields are generally well defended and far from population centers, but energy analysts say the continuing turbulence potentially threatens supply lines and foreign investment that producers like Libya and Algeria depend on to increase production.
World oil prices started rising sharply when demonstrators overwhelmed downtown Cairo earlier in the month because of concerns that unrest could block the Suez Canal and Sumed pipeline through which three million barrels of crude pass daily. Labor unrest continues to roil the canal, though shipments have continued without incident.
Unrest in Yemen potentially threatens the 18-mile-wide Strait of Bab el-Mandeb, a shipping lane between the Horn of Africa and the Middle East that serves as a strategic link between the Indian Ocean and Mediterranean through which nearly four million barrels of oil pass daily. Security for tanker traffic in the area became a concern after terrorists attacked a French tanker off the coast of Yemen in 2002.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, top left, with Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, the deputy oil minister, said OPEC would meet any shortage in the supply of oil. Americans are paying more for a gallon of gasoline and traders are paying more for oil. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FAYEZ NURELDINE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (B8) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BOND MARKETS (72%); RETAILERS (68%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (66%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); CLOSINGS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ITALY (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



589 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sales At Wal-Mart Show Decline

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
As the Christmas season approached, Wal-Mart Stores said it was fixing the problems in its United States division. It hired new executives, added merchandise that it had cut, and fought with Target and other competitors to provide the lowest prices over the holidays.
But for Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, the fourth quarter was the seventh consecutive quarter of declining sales at stores open at least a year in the United States, a measure known as same-store sales. 
The decline of 1.8 percent missed the company projection. In November, it said that same-store sales for the fourth quarter would range from a decline of 1 percent to a gain of 2 percent. Same-store sales are an important indicator of a retailer's health, as they tend to reflect whether in-store changes are working or not.
''Some of the pricing and merchandising issues in Wal-Mart ran deeper than we initially expected, and they require a response that will take time to see results,'' Michael T. Duke, president and chief executive, said in a statement.
Store traffic also declined in the quarter and for the year.
Company executives and analysts said consumers seemed to have changed their ways during the recession, and that has persisted into the sluggish recovery. New shopping habits, like using less credit, relying more on month-to-month cash and buying in smaller packages, have hampered Wal-Mart's ability to climb out of the sales slump.
In addition, while consumers are still using Wal-Mart for big shopping trips, they are visiting drugstores and dollar stores for in-between purchases.
Sales overall in the United States fell in the quarter, by 0.5 percent to $71.1 billion. Total sales, however, rose 2.5 percent to $115.6 billion.
Including its United States, international and Sam's Club divisions, Wal-Mart earned $5.02 billion, or $1.41 a share, from continuing operations compared with $4.82 billion or $1.26 a share, in the fourth quarter a year ago. For the 2011 fiscal year, earnings rose 6.3 percent to $15.4 billion.
Wal-Mart continues to manage expenses aggressively, and excluding one-time items, earnings were $1.34 a share, which beat analyst estimates by 3 cents.
William S. Simon, who was promoted in the summer to oversee Wal-Mart's business in the United States, suggested that the general merchandise category -- which includes items like apparel, hardware or seasonal items, and excludes food -- could take a long time to improve.
''Our goal is to gain traction on these before we get into the general-merchandise-rich fourth quarter,'' Mr. Simon said, according to prepared remarks.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the problems stemmed from several areas. Toy sales were down in American stores, though Wal-Mart had aggressively promoted prices and added back toys to its aisles. Apparel continued to be a problem.
And in consumables -- basics like toilet paper and soap -- Wal-Mart said its prices and sizes were a problem for shoppers who continued to be on tight budgets.
Customers' use of government assistance programs to pay for Wal-Mart American goods rose about 0.5 percent from the fourth quarter last year. About 80 percent of payments are still made with some form of cash (including debit cards), while the use of credit cards dropped from the year-earlier period.
Revised spending habits contributed to the decline in traffic, Charles M. Holley Jr., executive vice president and chief financial officer, said in a call with reporters.
''It's not a case that we're not correctly priced,'' Mr. Holley said. For example, he said Wal-Mart's price-per-ounce for laundry detergent was usually lower than competitors', but competitors like dollar stores often sold smaller bottles or boxes that were cheaper.
''Some of our customers at the end of the month may have only a fixed amount left,'' he said, ''and even if it's more per ounce, if the price point is more attractive at a competitor, at the end of the month that's all they can spend.''
''That's something we're addressing right now,'' he said.
Also, he said, ''we lost some of what we call the fill-in trip. People were still coming to the store to do their big shopping trip, but when they needed bread, milk, detergent quickly, we did lose some of that.''
Speaking of where shoppers were going instead, he said, ''I think it's probably the convenience and somebody that has low price points, and dollar stores would certainly fit that category.''
Wal-Mart also blamed electronics for much of the fourth-quarter sales decline, as prices on TVs were falling, though it said the number of TVs sold rose.
Categories like food and health and wellness performed well in American stores, the company said. And sales continued to increase in the international division, by 8.9 percent to $31.4 billion for the quarter.
But the company says it does not know exactly when things will get better in its American stores. It said it expected first-quarter 2011 same-store sales to be flat to down 2 percent.
''We would hope we would start seeing some improvement throughout the year,'' Mr. Holley said.
Home Depot had a different fourth-quarter story, with its biggest same-store sales increase in five years.
The sales increase of 4.8 percent at United States stores open at least a year was caused in part by aggressive holiday promotions, with appliance deals after Thanksgiving, and a 12 percent increase in seasonal merchandise that sold out, Carol Tome, chief financial officer, said in an interview.
Also, she said, the $1,500 federal energy tax credit that expired at the end of December brought in customers for items like windows, doors and skylights.
Net income at Home Depot rose to $587 million, or 36 cents a share, for the fourth quarter, up from $342 million, or 20 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts expected earnings of 31 cents a share.
Macy's also beat analyst expectations, reporting on Tuesday that its fourth-quarter income was $1.55 a share, or $667 million, up from $1.05 a share, or $445 million, a year ago. Excluding one-time charges, income was $1.57 a share, which beat analyst expectations by 5 cents. Macy's said its strategy of localizing merchandise for different cities was a crucial contributor to its performance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Wal-Mart store in Alexandria, Va. The company says problems in its American unit will take longer to fix than predicted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TOYS & GAMES (71%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); SAM'S CLUB (64%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



590 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Chinatown, a Springboard For Migrant Job-Seekers (And Not Just Chinese)

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
A century ago, a glance at Ellis Island's handwritten ledgers would have offered a sense of the diverse crowds pouring into New York.
To find a modern version of that, look to the back wall of a windowless room in a Chinatown employment agency. There, a collage of currency from every corner of the globe -- Eritrea, Iran, Mexico -- showcases the origins of those who come to this tiny office on Doyers Street looking for work.
Their options are listed on a cluttered dry-erase board: A liquor store helper in Maryland. A cashier in Westchester County. A fast-food cook in Connecticut. The only details are an area code, a monthly salary and the work shift.
The office, Tina Employment Agency, is one of two dozen bare-bones job bureaus clustered around the Manhattan Bridge that charge $30 to $80 for a perch on the economy's bottom rung. 
Many of the clients are new immigrants. Their homelands span the globe, reflecting the diversity of New York's immigrant ranks and Chinatown's emergence as a launching pad for them all, not just the Chinese.
On recent afternoons, the line of nervous applicants waiting to talk to Tina Chan, the agency's gruff manager, included Tibetans, Nepalis, Indonesians and Salvadorans. Communication can be a challenge.
''I speak a little Chinese, she speaks a little English,'' Armando Torres, a Mexican cook, said in Spanish. ''Mexicans, Guatemalans, everyone comes here.''
Lately, business has not been good for Ms. Chan, or the job-seekers. Employers are offering little work, leaving potential clients to bide their time in the cramped office while the staff members sit at desks, waiting for businesses to call.
''There used to be four phones ringing all the time,'' Ms. Chan said.
Chinatown has long had a dense infrastructure to help new immigrants find their footing. Without leaving East Broadway, a fisherman fresh from a Chinese village could get a job washing dishes in Arlington, Va.; Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; or Flushing, Queens. He could also find a bus to take him there, and an apartment to share with six other men from his hometown. And while waiting for all that to be arranged, he could visit a doctor, consult a lawyer, take in a bootleg movie and slurp a lunch of noodle soup.
The Chinatown buses are the most visible link in the network. They originally ferried workers to menial jobs up and down the East Coast, but were discovered in recent years by non-Chinese customers, who adopted them as cheap alternatives to Greyhound.
The employment agencies may be undergoing a similar shift.
''The Chinatown infrastructure, which has been set up to be part of a whole migration industry for Chinese coming into the country, has begun to be accessed by other immigrant groups looking for a way into the low-wage labor market,'' said Kenneth J. Guest, an anthropologist at Baruch College who has studied Chinatown. ''It's an entry point.''
Many of the agencies cater mainly to recent immigrants from the Fuzhou region of southeastern China. But the Tina agency is one of a handful that has begun to attract more people from other nations who are in a hurry to find low-skilled work. ''It's not enough to pay the rent if it's only Chinese,'' Ms. Chan said. ''The doors are open.'' She forms relationships with some of her clients, many of whom are repeat customers. If they travel back home or abroad, some bring her currency to add to her wall.
At the Sincere Employment Agency a few blocks away, Wendy Wong, the owner, keeps contacts for Latino job-hunters in a special section of a college-ruled notebook, under the heading ''Amigos.''
The Tina agency charges workers $40 for a job placement, a lower-end price in Chinatown but roughly a third of what Latino agencies on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens charge. Employment agencies are not responsible for verifying the working papers or legal status of their clients, according to the State Department of Labor.
Most non-Chinese customers said they had learned of the Chinatown agencies through word of mouth. A 17-year-old Mexican immigrant named Jesus who was looking for a job said the Chinese colleagues he met while working in a restaurant kitchen had told him about the Chinatown offices.
While he spoke, a group of six Guatemalans and Mexicans turned onto Doyers Street, a narrow block lined with barbershops. They were all heading for the Tina agency.
Mr. Torres, 33, who has been seeking work for three months, said Latinos faced a disadvantage trying to navigate Chinatown and work in Chinese-owned restaurants. He said managers sometimes spoke only Chinese and favored Chinese employees. ''The work they don't want to do, they give to us,'' he said. ''It's not fair.''
While waiting for a job to turn up, he and other Mexican immigrants traded stories in the hallway. A job in a Japanese restaurant, Mr. Torres said, was better than one in a Chinese restaurant -- less work, slower pace, same pay. A younger man nodded in agreement.
In a basement a few doors from Tina is Winner Employment Agency, an office popular with immigrants from across Asia. Pastel-colored maps of the United States cover one wall, and a board in the back lists two categories of jobs -- ''live in'' (Boston gift shop, Virginia fast-food counter) and ''live out'' (Queens laundromat helper, Brooklyn sandwich shop helper).
The other afternoon, two men from Myanmar stood at the counter. Khin Meung, 39, a stocky man with a wide smile who has been working in an upstate Japanese restaurant since 1997, was trying to help Aung Khant, whom he had met in a grocery store in Queens. Mr. Khant arrived in New York three months ago and has picked up only a few words of English.
Mr. Khant, 37, wants to work indoors -- he does not know the city well enough to be a deliveryman, he said. He worked briefly as a dishwasher but found the 12-hour shifts, with no dinner break, too grueling.
The agency employees were not sympathetic. ''If I'm new and I don't speak English, I would do whatever job, but he's picky,'' shouted the woman behind the counter. ''No job!''
The Burmese men slipped out the door, defeated. Mr. Khant looked at the floor.
They both plan to go to school -- Mr. Khant for English, Mr. Meung for cooking.
''Some day, if we're lucky, we'll work at a high-class restaurant,'' Mr. Meung said. ''I hope so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wendy Wong owns Sincere Employment Agency. She keeps a notebook with contacts for Latinos under the heading ''Amigos.''
 Tina Employment Agency, one of two dozen such agencies near the Manhattan Bridge, has felt pinched by the slow job market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); FAST FOOD (75%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); ERITREA (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); GUATEMALA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



591 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Christie Declares 'New Normal' in Proposing Tight Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
TRENTON -- A pugnacious and boastful Gov. Chris Christie proposed a no-growth budget for New Jersey on Tuesday, saying he had inspired a legion of copycat governors from Albany to Sacramento and was not about to let up in his efforts to shift money from public workers to property-tax payers and businesses that create jobs.
Declaring that his deep cuts last year had established ''the new normal,'' Mr. Christie, a Republican, carved out a modest increase for public-school aid, kept municipal aid flat, offered small increases for indigent care at hospitals and financial aid for college students, and set aside a bigger amount to support improvements in the state's vital transportation system. 
But to pay for his priorities, Mr. Christie, who has waged a 14-month rhetorical war against the teachers' and other public-sector unions, stepped up the pressure to slash their members' health and retirement benefits.
The governor conditioned a doubling of the middle-class property tax rebate, for example, on the passage of changes that would make public employees pay 30 percent of the cost of their health insurance, compared with an average of 8 percent that Mr. Christie said many now pay.
He also offered to make a partial payment to the state's woefully underfunded pension system, but only if the system was overhauled to require bigger payments from workers, smaller payouts and an increase in the retirement age.
''Please, let's not pick the special interests over our overburdened taxpayers,'' Mr. Christie said during his budget address.
Mr. Christie said that even in Wisconsin, where Gov. Scott Walker's proposal to cut the benefits and collective bargaining rights of public workers had set off a firestorm of protests, officials ''have decided there can no longer be two classes of citizens: one that receives rich health and pension benefits, and all the rest who are left to pay for them.''
New Jersey union leaders assailed Mr. Christie's proposals, vowing to take their case to the public in advertisements, public forums and demonstrations in Trenton if need be.
''We'll be pushing back for sure,'' said Steve Wollmer, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association, which represents 200,000 teachers and school workers. Mr. Wollmer said Mr. Christie's reforms would cost many teachers $12,000 or more a year. ''This governor is good at talking about shared sacrifice, but in the end, he's balancing the books on the backs of our members,'' he said.
Hetty Rosenstein, state director of the Communications Workers of America, the largest state employee union, said Mr. Christie was pitting homeowners and middle-class government workers against one another. ''It's like he's playing a game of 'Survivor' with working people -- 'Who gets voted off the island?' -- instead of looking to where there really is money,'' Ms. Rosenstein said.
Mr. Christie, who was elected in 2009, seemed to want to take credit for budget-cutting measures being used in statehouses across the country by this year's crop of rookies -- as if he had copyrighted austerity.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Democrat of New York, Mr. Christie said, was following in his footsteps, and ''even the choice of words are similar to where New Jersey was one year ago.'' Mr. Christie also quoted the call by Gov. Jerry Brown, Democrat of California, for wage cuts and an end to fiscal gimmicks, adding, ''Sound familiar?''
''Democratic governors and Republican governors now look to New Jersey as a beacon of hope,'' Mr. Christie said.
But the governor offered little detail on the sacrifices that would be asked of those who did not belong to public-sector unions. His $29.4 billion budget calls for $540 million in Medicaid savings, with $240 million coming from pushing 121,000 elderly and disabled recipients into managed-care programs that are now mainly reserved for families on welfare. The rest, $300 million, is both ambitious and vague: it will require a federal waiver, and administration officials said it was too soon to say if or how services would be cut.
With the state's education system still reeling from Mr. Christie's cuts a year ago, when dozens of districts lost all their state aid, the governor offered to increase funding to every school district by an amount equal to 1 percent of its current-year budget.
The budget basically holds spending flat at the current year's level.
''Today marks the line in the sand that separates the way things used to be and the way they are going to be,'' Mr. Christie said. ''And we will not be going back.''
Mr. Christie is offering to prepay a scheduled pension contribution of $506 million before the new fiscal year, if the Legislature enacts his pension overhaul. That would allow the governor to say he has cut spending for a second year in a row. Otherwise, spending would actually grow slightly.
Most galling to union leaders, who argue that the governor is using them as scapegoats for an economic crisis they say was caused by Wall Street millionaires, was Mr. Christie's call for $200 million in new tax breaks, including an increase in the estate-tax exemption to $1 million, from $675,000. The governor said this would help small-business owners.
Just how much resistance the unions will mount is an open question. The New Jersey State A.F.L.-C.I.O. is staging a rally in Trenton on Friday in support of its brethren in Wisconsin, where labor's fight is more existential. But its efforts in New Jersey have been more low-key: lobbying sympathetic lawmakers for a pension-reform package labor can live with.
''What exactly are we going to do if this comes down to a fight?'' said Charles Wowkanech, the state A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president. ''I can't answer that now. But we will do everything humanly possible to maintain a defined-benefit pension for the working men and women of this state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE: Addressing a joint session of the New Jersey Legislature on Tuesday.
 Sheila Y. Oliver, the State Assembly speaker, flanked by Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, left, and Stephen M. Sweeney, the State Senate president, spoke for the Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



592 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: A Climate Skeptic With a Bully Pulpit in Virginia Finds an Ear in Congress

BYLINE: By JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Va. -- For nearly a year, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, Virginia's crusading Republican attorney general, has waged a one-man war on the theory of man-made global warming.
Invoking his subpoena powers, he has sought to force the University of Virginia to turn over the files of a prominent climatology professor, asserting that his research may be marred by fraud. The university is battling the move in the courts.
At the same time, Mr. Cuccinelli is suing the Environmental Protection Agency over its ruling that carbon dioxide and other global warming gases pose a threat to human health and welfare, describing the science behind the agency's decision as ''unreliable, unverifiable and doctored.''
Now his allegations of manipulated data and scientific fraud are resonating in Congress, where Republican leaders face an influx of new members, many of them Tea Party stalwarts like Mr. Cuccinelli, eager to inveigh against the body of research linking man-made emissions to warming. 
''There's a huge appetite among the rank-and-file to raise fundamental questions about the underlying science,'' said Michael McKenna, a Republican strategist and energy lobbyist.
Responding to those concerns, the new Republican majority has introduced legislation that would strip federal regulators of their power to police the industrial emissions that contribute to climate change. But party leaders, treading warily, have cast their arguments against regulation largely in terms of economic consequences, playing down the prospect of major hearings to examine the scientific basis of human-caused warming.
Even dedicated opponents of climate action concede that hauling climate scientists before Congress and challenging their findings could easily backfire, as many representatives lack a sophisticated grasp of climatology and run the risk of making embarrassing errors.
''It's a trap for a lot of members,'' said Marc Morano, a former Republican staff member on the Senate Environment and Public Works committee and publisher of Climate Depot, a Web site that advances the arguments of climate skeptics. ''They're apt to make mistakes.''
Meanwhile, a planned investigation by Representative Darrell Issa of California into alleged instances of manipulation and fraud by climate scientists -- broadly similar to those cited by Mr. Cuccinelli in his legal complaints -- has been indefinitely postponed.
Yet as the Republican leadership puts the brakes on a climate science confrontation, Mr. Cuccinelli has forged ahead.
In the process, his critics say, he has not only made mistakes, but also twisted facts to bolster his case against the climatologist, Michael E. Mann, now a professor at Pennsylvania State University.
Sherwood L. Boehlert, a retired Republican congressman from New York and a former chairman of the House Science Committee, is among those who have sharply criticized Mr. Cuccinelli's tactics.
''I find no logical explanation for spending taxpayer dollars on this politically designed, headline-grabbing pursuit of his,'' said Mr. Boehlert, whose panel in 2006 investigated nearly identical charges by climate skeptics that Dr. Mann had falsified results but found no evidence of wrongdoing.
More than 800 professors and scientists in Virginia have petitioned the attorney general to abandon his pursuit of Dr. Mann. As the university fights the investigation, a state judge has ruled substantially in its favor although a final decision has yet to be made.
The case has also been divisive in Virginia politics, with the Democrat-controlled State Senate voting on Feb. 3 to strip Mr. Cuccinelli of the power to investigate future instances of academic fraud at public universities. The following week, senators passed a budget amendment requiring the attorney general to keep detailed expense records on projects that exceed 100 work hours -- a proposal aimed at forcing Mr. Cuccinelli to open the books on his investigation of Dr. Mann.
Both measures passed easily and with the support of Republicans, including the Senate minority leader, though neither is expected to clear the Republican-held State House.
Mr. Cuccinelli seems unfazed by the backlash. ''We'll see the documents,'' he said confidently in an interview in his Richmond office, referring to Dr. Mann's e-mails and computer files.
Although cast by his foes as an angry ideologue, Mr. Cuccinelli, 42, was amiable and upbeat in discussing the litigation. He ruefully acknowledged the backlash against his investigation of Dr. Mann. ''I can tell you that out of all the things we've done in this first year in office, none has attracted more vitriolic assault,'' he said.
He described the inquiry as a legitimate function of his office. ''I would expect any attorney general sitting in this chair to do the same thing,'' he said.
Mr. Cuccinelli's conservative views make him no stranger to controversy. Before his election as attorney general in November 2009, he served nearly eight years in the State Senate, where he was known for his hard-right stances on illegal immigration, same-sex marriage, gun control and abortion and for clashing with moderates within his party.
Shortly after taking office in January 2010, he sued the Obama administration over the health care overhaul, which Mr. Cuccinelli called unconstitutional. A federal judge ruled partly in his favor, catapulting him into the national spotlight, although the decision was quickly appealed.
On climate change, Mr. Cuccinelli said he had begun to pay serious attention to the issue only recently, after momentum began to grow behind legislation to establish a national cap-and-trade system for greenhouse gases. He did ''basic reading,'' he said, and became convinced that scientific proof linking industrial emissions to warming was lacking.
His doubts deepened in late 2009, he said, when a large cache of e-mails between scientists from the Climate Research Unit of the University of East Anglia, in Britain, were illicitly published online.
Climate change skeptics seized on the e-mails as proof that the science linking man-made emissions to warming was doctored and exaggerated, and skeptical bloggers dubbed the episode Climategate. Multiple investigations, including one by the British House of Lords, cleared the researchers involved of scientific wrongdoing.
Despite those conclusions, Mr. Cuccinelli asserted in the interview and in response to written questions that the contents of the leaked e-mails indicated a conspiracy among top scientists to exaggerate carbon dioxide's effect on global temperatures. ''They suggest knowledgeable deception on the part of a number of folks,'' he said.
''It's when you introduce the evidence of some people being deceptive that you have the basis for the concerns about our state tax dollars and state institutions being misused,'' he said. ''It doesn't happen without the Climategate e-mails.''
Mr. Cuccinelli maintains that he is merely investigating potential financial abuses, not challenging Dr. Mann's scientific conclusions. But the state's legal briefs in the case are at their essence a critical assessment of Dr. Mann's research, which has centered on the historical reconstruction of global temperatures. And even prominent climate skeptics challenge the attorney general's contention that he is not pursuing the climatologist over his scientific work.
At a May 2010 conference bringing together leading skeptical researchers, for instance, Stephen McIntyre, a retired Canadian mining engineer and amateur statistician whose critical analysis of Dr. Mann's research and demands for data from British scientists were at the heart of the e-mail scandal, denounced the Virginia inquiry.
''I strongly disagree with Cuccinelli's recent investigation of potential financial abuse,'' Mr. McIntyre said. ''Regardless of what one may think of the quality of Mann's work, he has published diligently.''
The investigation has also run into legal hurdles, with a state judge hearing the case questioning the strength of evidence against Dr. Mann.
''The nature of the conduct is not stated so that any reasonable person could glean what Dr. Mann did to violate the statute,'' Judge Paul M. Peatross Jr. wrote in an August ruling. The judge did not dismiss the case, however, allowing the state to amend and refile its subpoena.
Climate experts also sharply question claims of fraud cited in Mr. Cuccinelli's lawsuit against the E.P.A.
Most notably, citing an independent 2009 report, the State of Virginia's complaint asserts that climate scientists at the University of East Anglia, the source of the leaked e-mails -- doctored Russian temperature data to exaggerate warming. Because the Climate Research Unit provides basic temperature data to scientists around the world, any corruption of the data seriously undermines the theory of man-made warming, the suit argues.
Yet Alexander Bedritskiy, president of the World Meteorological Organization and the top climate change adviser to President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia, said that the Russian report was thoroughly discredited by top scientists in his country more than a year ago.
''Any scientific discussion on the results, pretending to be science-based, does not make sense,'' Dr. Bedritskiy said in an e-mail.
He also noted that the author of that report, Andrei Illarionov, is not a climate scientist but an economist with the Cato Institute, a conservative research group in the United States.
Mr. Cuccinelli could not say how he had verified the accuracy of the report, which is written in Russian, but said that his legal complaint had been ''heavily researched.'' The research did not consist of consultations with scientists, however, he said.
''We have to have a certain understanding of our context to operate, but that doesn't require expert witnesses,'' he said.
The E.P.A. lawsuit, with dozens of co-plaintiffs and the full force of the federal government opposing it, is expected to result in a highly complex court battle potentially spanning several years -- a prospect Mr. Cuccinelli appears to relish.
A wide range of legal experts said the suit had a low chance of success. ''It's the legal equivalent of the 'Hail Mary' pass,'' said Michael B. Gerrard, a professor at Columbia Law School and an authority on climate change law.
Political experts further questioned whether another drawn-out battle on climate change science would appeal much to voters.
''There is a significant portion of the Virginia public that sees these issues as distractions from what the attorney general should be focusing on,'' said Mark J. Rozell, a professor of political science at George Mason University.
''There are many people who are deeply uncomfortable with the crusader-type style that he is cultivating,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, top, Virginia's attorney general, and Representative Darrell Issa of California, left, have questioned the work of Michael E. Mann, a Penn State climatologist, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAY PAUL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GREG RICO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SUBPOENAS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%)

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (89%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



593 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: If Not Now, When?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
What's unfolding in the Arab world today is the mother of all wake-up calls. And what the voice on the other end of the line is telling us is clear as a bell:
''America, you have built your house at the foot of a volcano. That volcano is now spewing lava from different cracks and is rumbling like it's going to blow. Move your house!'' In this case, ''move your house'' means ''end your addiction to oil.'' 
No one is rooting harder for the democracy movements in the Arab world to succeed than I am. But even if things go well, this will be a long and rocky road. The smart thing for us to do right now is to impose a $1-a-gallon gasoline tax, to be phased in at 5 cents a month beginning in 2012, with all the money going to pay down the deficit. Legislating a higher energy price today that takes effect in the future, notes the Princeton economist Alan Blinder, would trigger a shift in buying and investment well before the tax kicks in. With one little gasoline tax, we can make ourselves more economically and strategically secure, help sell more Chevy Volts and free ourselves to openly push for democratic values in the Middle East without worrying anymore that it will harm our oil interests. Yes, it will mean higher gas prices, but prices are going up anyway, folks. Let's capture some it for ourselves.
It is about time. For the last 50 years, America (and Europe and Asia) have treated the Middle East as if it were just a collection of big gas stations: Saudi station, Iran station, Kuwait station, Bahrain station, Egypt station, Libya station, Iraq station, United Arab Emirates station, etc. Our message to the region has been very consistent: ''Guys (it was only guys we spoke with), here's the deal. Keep your pumps open, your oil prices low, don't bother the Israelis too much and, as far as we're concerned, you can do whatever you want out back. You can deprive your people of whatever civil rights you like. You can engage in however much corruption you like. You can preach whatever intolerance from your mosques that you like. You can print whatever conspiracy theories about us in your newspapers that you like. You can keep your women as illiterate as you like. You can create whatever vast welfare-state economies, without any innovative capacity, that you like. You can undereducate your youth as much as you like. Just keep your pumps open, your oil prices low, don't hassle the Jews too much -- and you can do whatever you want out back.''
It was that attitude that enabled the Arab world to be insulated from history for the last 50 years -- to be ruled for decades by the same kings and dictators. Well, history is back. The combination of rising food prices, huge bulges of unemployed youth and social networks that are enabling those youths to organize against their leaders is breaking down all the barriers of fear that kept these kleptocracies in power.
But fasten your seat belts. This is not going to be a joy ride because the lid is being blown off an entire region with frail institutions, scant civil society and virtually no democratic traditions or culture of innovation. The United Nations' Arab Human Development Report 2002 warned us about all of this, but the Arab League made sure that that report was ignored in the Arab world and the West turned a blind eye. But that report -- compiled by a group of Arab intellectuals led by Nader Fergany, an Egyptian statistician -- was prophetic. It merits re-reading today to appreciate just how hard this democratic transition will be.
The report stated that the Arab world is suffering from three huge deficits -- a deficit of education, a deficit of freedom and a deficit of women's empowerment. A summary of the report in Middle East Quarterly in the Fall of 2002 detailed the key evidence: the gross domestic product of the entire Arab world combined was less than that of Spain. Per capita expenditure on education in Arab countries dropped from 20 percent of that in industrialized countries in 1980 to 10 percent in the mid-1990s. In terms of the number of scientific papers per unit of population, the average output of the Arab world per million inhabitants was roughly 2 percent of that of an industrialized country.
When the report was compiled, the Arab world translated about 330 books annually, one-fifth of the number that Greece did. Out of seven world regions, the Arab countries had the lowest freedom score in the late 1990s in the rankings of Freedom House. At the dawn of the 21st century, the Arab world had more than 60 million illiterate adults, the majority of whom were women. Yemen could be the first country in the world to run out of water within 10 years.
This is the vaunted ''stability'' all these dictators provided -- the stability of societies frozen in time.
Seeing the Arab democracy movements in Egypt and elsewhere succeed in modernizing their countries would be hugely beneficial to them and to the world. We must do whatever we can to help. But no one should have any illusions about how difficult and convulsive the Arabs' return to history is going to be. Let's root for it, without being in the middle of it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GAS STATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); CORRUPTION (60%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ASIA (74%); EUROPE (73%); BAHRAIN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



594 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Governments in Europe and Elsewhere Begin Efforts to Remove Citizens From Libya

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and SEBNEM ARSU; Rachel Donadio reported from Rome, and Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul. Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting from Rome, Scott Sayare from Paris, and Victor Homola from Berlin.

 BODY:
ROME -- Governments around the world scrambled Tuesday to evacuate their citizens from an increasingly chaotic Libya, chartering military and civilian planes and, in the case of Britain and Turkey, mobilizing military ships.
The British foreign secretary, William Hague, said in a statement that many of the hundreds of British citizens inside Libya were stuck ''in Tripoli airport without immediate flights out of the country, following flight cancellations, closures of airspace and difficulties securing permits from the appropriate authorities.''
Mr. Hague said that landing clearances were urgently being sought for a charter flight within 48 hours and that the frigate Cumberland had been sent toward Libya from the eastern Mediterranean ''in case it is required to play a role in assisting British nationals.'' 
As a revolt grew against the four decades of authoritarian rule of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the United States also continued to urge its citizens to depart. The American Embassy in Tripoli, which ordered all nonessential personnel and family members to leave the country on Monday, could not be reached for comment. It was not immediately clear how many Americans were in Libya, which imposes strict visa requirements.
Turkey, which mutually halted visa requirements with Libya last year, has more than 25,000 citizens in the country, most working in its booming construction sector.
A Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman said 2,141 Turks had returned since Saturday, after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke to Colonel Qaddafi to ask for their safe passage.
Turkey sent military ships to escort two passenger boats headed to Benghazi, Libya's strife-torn second city, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement, and two more ships were scheduled to follow.
Turkish Airlines expected Libyan approval shortly to send three planes to Tripoli and seven to Benghazi to help repatriate Turks, the Foreign Ministry spokesman said.
Like Britain, Egypt, France, Germany and Italy, the Netherlands also sent charter military and civilian planes for its citizens. The Netherlands sent a Navy frigate in case Libya closed its airspace, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Bengt van Loosdrecht, told Agence France-Presse.
European countries were not of one mind about the level of alert. The German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, advised German citizens in Libya to leave, while his Italian counterpart, Franco Frattini, said that although Italy was helping those of its citizens who wanted to leave, they were not obliged to go.
According to the Italian Foreign Ministry, an estimated 1,500 Italians live in Libya, which supplies a majority of Italy's natural gas and has many economic ties to Italy. Eni, the Italian firm that is Libya's largest foreign energy company, began evacuating workers on Monday.
In a measure of the close relationship, Colonel Qaddafi called the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, to assure him that ''Libya is fine,'' Reuters reported, citing Libya's official Jana news agency.
On Tuesday night, the first flight chartered by the Italian Foreign Ministry landed at Fiumicino airport in Rome, carrying 280 to 300 Italians. Many worked for Italian companies in Libya and appeared to have been instructed by their companies not to comment on the unrest. But their anxiety was still palpable.
''It's not an easy situation,'' said Fabio Bendia, 37, a Sicilian who works as a contractor for Eni about 100 miles outside Tripoli. ''While we were driving to the airport, a protester with a machete stopped us on the street.''
Another passenger described a scene of desperation at the Tripoli airport.
''The airport was frightening,'' said Nicola Cozzi, who has worked in Libya for three years as a technician for Sirti, an Italian telecommunications company. ''It's a small airport, and there were between 3,000 or 4,000 people there. We had to jump over people to get to our plane. It was totally chaotic.''
Enzo Presutti, 45, who also works for Sirti, said, ''The company told us to stay locked in our residence'' on the outskirts of Tripoli. ''We were locked there for two days,'' he said, ''hearing shots at night.''
''They were saying they were the Eastern tribes who were protesting, but it's not true,'' Mr. Presutti said. ''They reached as far as the city center. We could hear cars passing by and firing shots in the middle of the night.''
China evacuated 83 workers from Tobruk to the Egyptian border, where Chinese Embassy officials took them to the border town of Serum, the BBC reported.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bus carried Turkish workers into Tunisia on Tuesday. They were evacuated from Tripoli, Libya. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (57%); FRANCO FRATTINI (50%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); ITALY (95%); TURKEY (95%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



595 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Shares Fall Sharply Amid Libyan Unrest

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting from Paris and Clifford Krauss from Houston.

 BODY:
Political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa continued to haunt financial markets on Tuesday, pushing up crude oil, driving down stock prices and sending investors into safe-haven investments.
The unrest seen during the overthrow of the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia has swept into Libya, Bahrain and Algeria. There have also been demonstrations in Yemen, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.
''Over the past few weeks we had a domino effect, and the concern is that anything can happen,'' said Justin Urquhart Stewart, a founder of Seven Investment Management in London. ''At the moment the ripple is very small, but it has the potential to turn into something bigger quickly.'' 
Much of the uncertainty is being stoked by fears over oil supplies. Analysts have been keeping an eye on Libya, which has the largest oil reserves in Africa, and on Bahrain, which is next to Saudi Arabia.
''Geopolitical ripples in the Middle East are the basis for today's decline,'' said Lawrence R. Creatura, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors.
''Higher energy prices act like a tax on consumers, reducing the amount of discretionary purchasing power that they have,'' Mr. Creatura said. ''It represents an additional, potential headwind for retailers.''
Treasury prices rose and stocks declined in the United States, where the main Wall Street stock indexes have risen steadily in recent months to levels not seen since the financial crisis started.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down more than 200 points in the late afternoon. But it closed down 178.46 points, or 1.44 percent, at 12,212.79. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 27.57 points, or 2.05 percent, at 1,315.44, while the technology heavy Nasdaq lost 77.53 points, or 2.74 percent, at 2,756.42.
In addition to the turmoil in the Middle East, investors took in some discouraging developments in the United States economy.
Shares of Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, dropped 3.1 percent after the company said sales at stores open at least a year in the United States fell 1.8 percent in the fourth quarter.
Real estate prices slid again in December, pushing a leading price index, the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller Home Price Index of 20 large metropolitan areas, down 1 percent in December on an unadjusted basis.
Financials, industrials and materials shares shed more than 2 percent in the broader market. Shares of Bank of America slid more than 3.8 percent to $14.18.
Airlines were hit with uncertainty over the impact of the higher energy prices. United Continental Holdings Inc. fell more than 9 percent to $24.44, and the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, fell more than 5 percent to $7.02.
Among energy stocks, Exxon Mobil gained 1.1 percent to $85.44, and rival Chevron rose 1.6 percent at $100.32.
Gold and bond prices rose as investors sought safe havens. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes was 3.46 percent down from 3.58 percent late Friday.
''You are getting a flight to quality bid,'' said Laura LaRosa, the director of fixed income at Glenmede. ''The equity market is feeling jittery with what is going on in the Middle East.''
''The more volatile, the more I would think people would flock to Treasuries right now,'' she said. ''I would imagine if there is continued volatility you will continue to see that on a daily basis.''
Markets in Europe and Asia were also lower. In Europe, the FTSE-100 in London lost 0.3 percent while the CAC-40 in Paris declined by 1.1 percent.
In Asia, the Nikkei 225 closed 1.8 percent lower on Tuesday, and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong sank 2.1 percent.
In an effort to calm turbulent oil markets, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries was ready to meet any shortage in supply by the unrest.
Light, sweet crude oil for April delivery surged in New York, rising $5.71, or 6.4 percent, to settle at $95.42 The April contract for Brent crude, a global benchmark for oil that trades in London, was up 1 percent at $106.72 a barrel, after hitting $108.57 earlier in the session.
The Paris-based International Energy Agency tried to reassure oil markets, saying that it ''stands ready, as always, to make oil available to the market in the event of a major supply disruption if alternative supplies cannot readily be made available via normal market mechanisms.''
For the moment, it added in a statement, ''we are not in a situation where that is necessary.''
But some noted that it is the prospect, rather than the reality, of dislocations in supply that was currently spooking the markets.
''Obviously as this situation in the Middle East continues to unravel it is about fear,'' said Thomas Bentz, an energy analyst with BNP Paribas. ''It is worry that we will continue to see this unrest spreading across other major oil producers. Prices react to the potential loss of supply; it doesn't necessarily have to be that there is an actual loss of supply.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RETAILERS (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); SAME STORE SALES (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (80%); AMR CORP (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (80%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); FII (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (80%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (80%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (80%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); SYRIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); YEMEN (92%); JORDAN (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



596 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: December Price Slide Delays the Housing Rebound

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Real estate prices slid in just about every part of the country in December, pushing a housing market that once seemed to be rebounding nearly back to its lowest level since the crash began.
At this dismal point, some economists and analysts say that the damage has been done, and there is nowhere to go but up. Many others argue that the market has still not finished falling.
And then there are those who maintain that, possibly, things are about to get a whole lot worse. 
Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economist who is the author of ''Irrational Exuberance'' and who helped develop the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, put himself in this last group. Mr. Shiller said in a conference call on Tuesday that he saw ''a substantial risk'' of the market falling another 15, 20 or even 25 percent.
The 20-city Case-Shiller composite is already off 31.2 percent from its peak, according to data released Tuesday. Average home prices in Atlanta, Cleveland, Las Vegas and Detroit are below the levels of 11 years ago. A drop the size that Mr. Shiller says he thinks could happen would put Chicago, Dallas, Charlotte and Minneapolis there, too. It would create a lost decade for housing in much of the country even before the effects of inflation.
Mr. Shiller said several political trends indicated a dreary future, including the uncertainty over the mortgage holding companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and proposals to reduce the mortgage tax deduction.
Mr. Shiller's colleague, the economist Karl E. Case, a professor emeritus of economics at Wellesley College, says he does not think the outlook is so dire. He said in the conference call on Tuesday that he thought the housing market was at ''a rocky bottom with a down trend.''
The S.& P./Case-Shiller index of 20 large metropolitan areas fell 1 percent in December from November, although the drop was just 0.4 percent when the data was adjusted for seasonal variations. Eleven cities in the index posted their lowest levels in December since home price peaks in 2006 and 2007, up from nine cities in November. Phoenix and New York joined a list that includes Atlanta, Chicago and Seattle.
The only city in the index that posted a monthly gain on an unadjusted basis was Washington. Five cities posted a gain on an adjusted basis.
One data point that favored Mr. Case's optimism: The adjusted declines in December and November were about half the drops in the previous two months, indicating the slide might be slowing.
Most analysts seem to fall between Mr. Shiller and Mr. Case in their forecasts.
''Even though affordability is exceptionally high and housing is incredibly cheap, the double-dip in house prices that began last year will continue throughout this year,'' Capital Economics, a consulting firm, said Tuesday. Their estimate was that prices would drop another 5 percent unless a ''vicious circle'' of falling prices and rising foreclosures developed, in which case prices would be worse.
Also released Tuesday was the Case-Shiller quarterly index that covers all homes in the country. It showed prices fell 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter and 4.1 percent for all of 2010.
The Case-Shiller index is a three-month moving average, which means it changes slowly. It is now less than 3 percent above the low recorded in the spring of 2009, when there was widespread hope that the market was starting to recover.
To accelerate the process, the Obama administration offered a carrot for new buyers: a tax credit. The credit did its job, enticing hundreds of thousands of buyers to accelerate their purchases in the fall of 2009 and the spring of 2010. But the credit did not lay the groundwork for a permanent rebound.
''Every place is pretty much getting hit a second time for essentially the same reasons,'' said Andrew LePage, an analyst with DataQuick Information Systems. ''Slow economic recovery, little job growth, still-tight credit, no more government stimulus, a pervasive and gnawing sense that prices could fall more, too few people getting jobs and too many worrying about losing the one they have.''
Amid all this gloom, one group thinks the situation is much better than generally portrayed: the National Association of Realtors. Its data shows the median existing single-family home price rose in 78 out of 152 metropolitan statistical areas in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the fourth quarter of 2009, including 10 with double-digit increases.
But even as the group asserts that the market's decline has been overstated, it is being accused of having bad numbers of its own.
The blog Calculated Risk wrote last month that the real estate group was planning major downward revisions to the last three years of house sales data. CoreLogic, a data company, said last week that it estimated 2010 home sales at 3.6 million, much less than the 4.9 million the National Association of Realtors was claiming. If accurate, the CoreLogic numbers would indicate a market even more troubled than is generally assumed.
Against this welter of conflicting claims and dark predictions, many would-be sellers are opting out until that distant moment when they can get what they think they deserve. Some are renting their home after moving to new quarters; others are simply turning down that new job and staying put.
This can work to the advantage of those who plunge ahead. Jordan and Caitlin Van Horn bought their house in the fashionable Seattle neighborhood of Ballard three years ago. Ever since then, the market has slumped. The couple is moving to Alabama and feared the worst when they put their home on the market.
They were pleasantly surprised. Their four-bedroom house fetched $545,000 after less than a week, only 5 percent less than they paid.
''The lack of inventory really worked to our advantage,'' said Mr. Van Horn, a co-developer of a bookkeeping system for small businesses. ''We feel thankful for the way things turned out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Manhattan skyline. New York was one of 11 cities that posted its lowest prices since the peaks in 2006 and 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) CHART: A New Slide (Source: S&P/Case-Shiller) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (69%); CITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



597 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: A New Volley From Boehner in Spending Dispute

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the strategic jockeying in a fight over federal spending kicked into high gear, the Republican House speaker, John A. Boehner, said on Tuesday that it was up to the White House and the Democrats who control the Senate to agree to at least some Republican-backed cuts to help reach a short-term deal and avoid a government shutdown early next month.
The House on Saturday approved more than $60 billion in spending reductions, for the fiscal year that runs through Sept. 30, that would hit nearly every area of the government. Not one Democrat voted for the bill, and the White House has threatened to veto it. 
Senate Democrats, saying more time is needed to reach a longer-term agreement, are calling for a 30-day extension that would continue to hold spending generally at last year's levels, but Republicans say that is not enough.
The stopgap measure now financing the government expires on March 4, and with Congress on recess until next week, lawmakers will have just four days to reach at least a tentative accord or face the prospect of closing down federal agencies -- an outcome that both parties say they want to avoid even as they maneuver to blame the other side should it occur.
The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said Tuesday that he had asked the Appropriations Committee to draft a 30-day extension of the current stopgap measure that he could bring to the floor next week. But Mr. Boehner and other Republicans quickly rejected the idea, saying that Democrats were stalling to avoid making needed cuts.
''The House has passed legislation to keep the government running until October while cutting spending,'' Mr. Boehner said in a statement. ''If Senator Reid refuses to bring it to a vote, then the House will pass a short-term bill to keep the government running -- one that also cuts spending. Senate Democratic leaders are insisting on a status quo that has left us with a mountain of debt and a stalled economy with unemployment near 10 percent.''
Mr. Boehner added, ''Republicans' goal is to cut spending and reduce the size of government, not to shut it down.''
Republicans are trying to make the case that Senate Democratic leaders are interested in preserving the status quo and are refusing to entertain even small cuts. Republicans say they believe a temporary measure with some spending reductions could pass the Senate with support from Republicans and more centrist Democrats.
Democrats said Republicans drew a line in the sand with Mr. Boehner's stated refusal last week to consider a temporary extension unless it contained new cuts, even before he had engaged in any negotiations.
In a conference call with reporters, Mr. Reid and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat, said that they knew they had to make cuts but that there was not enough time to do so before the stopgap measure runs out.
And they insisted that the current stopgap already includes major cuts because on an annualized basis it would spend $41 billion less than President Obama had requested last year. The House bill, however, included more than $60 billion in additional cuts.
Mr. Reid and Mr. Schumer accused Republicans of refusing to negotiate, but would not say how much more Democrats might be willing to cut in a longer term deal.
''We are willing to go deeper, we are willing to negotiate,'' Mr. Schumer said.
Mr. Reid added, ''We want a few weeks to work this out.''
But with each passing week, cuts for this fiscal year become more difficult to carry out. And the more time goes by, the closer Washington gets to a related battle over the need to raise the federal debt limit. Republicans have described big spending cuts as a condition of lifting the debt ceiling, despite warnings from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and others that lawmakers not play politics with the nation's ability to meet its financial obligations.
The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, said Democrats were ignoring the message of the fall elections.
''The American people spoke loud and clear: stop the Washington spending spree and bring down the debt,'' Mr. McConnell said in a statement. ''Yet Washington Democrats can't find a single dime of federal spending to cut, insisting on the status quo, even for a short-term spending bill. But keeping bloated spending levels in place and, predictably, proposing even more tax increases, is simply unacceptable.''
The White House so far has avoided getting involved in the initial skirmishing, and has said little other than its broad view that the Republican cuts are too big and the warning that the president would veto the House spending bill in its current form.
In Ohio, where he attended a forum on small businesses on Tuesday, Mr. Obama talked about his budget proposal, which includes a five-year spending freeze for many domestic programs, but also warned about making cuts that would hurt the economy or reduce the competitiveness of American businesses.
Mr. Obama said the nation needed ''to get our fiscal house in order'' and added, ''That's why I've put forth a budget that includes a five-year spending freeze that will help reduce the deficit by $400 billion and will get annual domestic spending down to the lowest levels since Dwight Eisenhower.''
''I want to work with Democrats and Republicans to make even bigger dents in our deficits,'' Mr. Obama continued, ''find new savings cut excessive spending wherever it exists. At the same time, we can't sacrifice investments in our future.''
Mr. Boehner, however, said it was time for Democratic leaders to get specific.
''Senator Reid and the Democrats who run Washington should stop creating more uncertainty by spreading fears of a government shutdown,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''and start telling the American people what -- if anything -- they are willing to cut.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, in Cleveland on Tuesday for a forum on small businesses, said the nation needed to get its ''fiscal house in order.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); VETO (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); HARRY REID (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



598 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: A Third Judge Validates Health Care Overhaul Law

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
A third federal judge upheld the constitutionality of the Obama health care law on Tuesday, reinforcing the divide in the lower courts as the case moves toward its first hearings on the appellate level. 
Judge Gladys Kessler of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia became the third appointee of President Bill Clinton, a Democrat, to reject a constitutional challenge to the Affordable Care Act. Two other federal district judges, both appointed by Republican presidents, have struck down the law's keystone provision, which requires most Americans to obtain health insurance starting in 2014.
One of those judges, in a case filed in Florida, ruled that the rest of the law could not be severed from that provision, and suggested that the entire act was therefore invalid. The Justice Department, which represents the Obama administration in the cases, has asked the judge for clarification of his ruling, which left states confused about whether to continue carrying out the law.
Although the issue will almost certainly be determined by the Supreme Court, each lower court ruling contributes to the balance of legal opinion that the justices will consider. More than 20 challenges to some aspect of the sprawling act have been filed around the country. Oral arguments in the first appellate reviews are scheduled for May and June.
The District of Columbia case was filed by five individuals represented by the American Center for Law and Justice, a conservative Christian legal group.
Judge Kessler adopted the government's position on whether Congress's authority to regulate interstate commerce is so broad that it can require people to buy a commercial product. Past Supreme Court decisions have established the standard that Congress can control ''activities that substantially affect interstate commerce.''
The judge suggested in her 64-page opinion that not buying insurance was an active choice that had clear effects on the marketplace by burdening other payers with the cost of uncompensated medical care.
''Because of this cost-shifting effect,'' she wrote, ''the individual decision to forgo health insurance, when considered in the aggregate, leads to substantially higher insurance premiums for those other individuals who do obtain coverage.''
Judge Kessler added: ''It is pure semantics to argue that an individual who makes a choice to forgo health insurance is not 'acting,' especially given the serious economic and health-related consequences to every individual of that choice. Making a choice is an affirmative action, whether one decides to do something or not do something.''
The judge also tossed out a claim that the law restricted the plaintiffs' exercise of religious freedom because the mandate to buy health insurance conflicted with their belief that God would provide for their well-being. She wrote that such a burden, if it existed at all, was too minor to require invalidation of the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); APPEALS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); RELIGION (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTER FOR LAW & JUSTICE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CENTER FOR LAW & JUSTICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (67%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



599 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: High Stakes: The Battle for Wisconsin

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Wisconsin Power Play,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Feb. 21), lays out the real issues in the protests in Madison, Wis. Gov. Scott Walker wants to strip power from any groups that oppose his views and policies. The protesters realized that and took action.
Those occupying the Capitol and walking around it are not radical revolutionaries or disobedient children; they are hard-working citizens committed to making Wisconsin a good place for all citizens and their families. They believe in and support a democratic process in which people discuss issues and arrive at compromises. In other words, they negotiate! 
Governor Walker is afraid of negotiating, and he has persuaded the Republicans in the Legislature to give up their power and become his rubber stamp. Thank you, Mr. Krugman, for clearly pointing out why we are protesting in Madison.
Sandra Loman Madison, Wis., Feb. 21, 2011
To the Editor:
If Wisconsin Republicans are successful in busting unions, which is their intent, they might be setting a trend that could spread to other states and eventually envelop the whole country. If that happened, it would be a profound catastrophe for America and its majority middle class and poor.
Conservatives are always invoking the names of our founding fathers and their intent. I don't believe that the founding fathers envisioned America's becoming a plutocracy -- government of, by and for the rich. With the power of huge mountains of corporate cash taking on an ever-increasing role in determining who governs, now may be the time for democracy-lovers all over our country to begin to speak with their feet. Regular working people must not let corporate greed crush us. Paul L. Whiteley Sr.
Louisville, Ky., Feb. 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman is correct to point out that the Republicans, in Wisconsin and elsewhere, want to eliminate labor unions in the interest of the oligarchs. I would add the fact that labor unions are the financial and organizational backbone of the Democratic Party.
Wiping out labor unions weakens the Democrats. The Republicans' purported budgetary considerations are nothing but a smokescreen.
Patricia B. Wild Larchmont, N.Y., Feb. 21, 2011
To the Editor:
What is happening in Wisconsin is inevitable. The state of Wisconsin, like most states, is running out of money. That is a reality. It does not matter how compassionate and generous legislators and the state governors are with taxpayers' money. There is just no more money. So state workers can protest all they want, but there will still be curtailment of their salaries and benefits.
Robert Ligon La Crescenta, Calif., Feb. 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''Wisconsin Leads Way as Workers Fight State Cuts'' (front page, Feb. 19):
Gov. Scott Walker's proposal to cut benefits and collective bargaining powers for government employees will inflict long-term damage on our state's schools and government institutions if successful. The most significant aspect of his plan would, as a practical matter, eliminate any reasonable assurances that workers' pay would incrementally rise as their experience increases.
His plan would limit government employees' collective bargaining authority to an increase in wages at no more than the rate of inflation. This means that additional raises would be subject solely to the unfettered wishes of the hiring authority. Where every salary increase will be pitted against revenue from taxes, it is not hard to imagine that employee income will soon flatten out.
But as newly hired teachers, nurses, computer technicians, engineers and other government professionals find that their salaries do not match their increasing skills, they will surely leave for other, more remunerative opportunities.
Regardless of how one feels about public employee unions, it is hard to believe that many Wisconsinites will be satisfied having schools and government agencies perpetually staffed solely by the inept and the inexperienced.
Chuck Vetzner Madison, Wis., Feb. 19, 2011
To the Editor:
I have never been a union member. At the same time, I recognize that the hard-won victories of the labor movement have resulted in cherished benefits for all American workers, union and nonunion.
To deny unions the right to collective bargaining may signal the beginning of an erosion of basic working conditions for all. The United States cannot start down this road and hope to remain a first-world nation with a vital and contributing working-class population.
Brett Wilder Ashland, Ore., Feb. 19, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article about the Wisconsin protests against Gov. Scott Walker's budget bill (''Dueling Demonstrations in a Capital Where Nothing Much Is Getting Done,'' Feb. 20) both hits and misses the point. As someone who has been in the protests for the last week, I have been inspired by how many regular people have flocked to the Capitol to make their voices heard. That is certainly progress.
Nevertheless, the left remains disorganized. We aren't making the most of this golden opportunity to tell the stories of working-class folks who would be affected by Governor Walker's bill to the rest of America. Unless we start doing that, we're going to lose.
James R. Benkard Madison, Wis., Feb. 20, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TRENDS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (89%); SCOTT WALKER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



600 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Money Should Be Fun

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
HERE at long last is a winning new defense of fine dining: Ai Fiori, in the Setai Fifth Avenue hotel, just below Midtown. The chef and restaurateur Michael White opened the place late last year, with Chris Jaeckle in the kitchen and Ahmass Fakahany down at the bank. It is an emphatic rejoinder to the trend toward farmhouse tables, rustic food and shouting that has so dominated the dining scene in Manhattan at least since the start of the recession.
Ai Fiori is not really a beautiful restaurant, despite the Childe Hassam-ish views that its wide windows provide of Fifth Avenue. The color palette of the dining room is too earthen and anonymous. And the service is not quite formal enough for it to qualify as truly fancy, either -- more Danny Meyer in attitude than Alain Ducasse. (Though check out those forks set in the high-European manner, with the tines pointing down into the thick tablecloth!) As a hotel restaurant, Ai Fiori is open for three meals a day. Some guests arrive tieless and Dockered, in drab pantsuits or business-travel black. There can be no purse ottomans for them, or other trappings of restaurants that seek to occupy the city's highest tier. 
But the dinner menu is a soulful amalgamation of French technique and Italian passion, executed with great skill. It turns an Italian lens on haute French cooking to reveal French food as it might be cooked in Como for a table of aristocrats. This works out well for everyone: Ai Fiori is one of the best restaurants to open in New York in the last 12 months. (With its $79 four-course prix fixe, it also provides one of the best values.)
A meal at Ai Fiori (The name means ''among the flowers.'') could begin with a half-pipe of beef bone filled elegantly with rounds of celery root, thin-sliced scallop and black truffle, with a thick drizzle of bone marrow over the top and a scattering of thyme. It might start with a tender pile of buttery poached oysters with cucumber and sturgeon caviar.
For those with a taste for offal and seafood, there is a soft-poached egg served with crisp sweetbreads, braised lobster knuckles, more of that black truffle and some tarragon. The egg is swathed in a cloud of creme fraiche and Coteaux du Layon, the sweet white wine of the Loire Valley. The combination is sweet and sour, slick and crunchy, all at once.
There is a roasted breast of squab as well, its shatteringly crisp skin giving way to soft and gamy meat below, with a sticky Madeira sauce, a cotton-ball puree of parsnips and a golden croquette filled with liquefied foie gras. This tastes of wealth and self-satisfaction. It is the gustatory version of one of those William Hamilton cartoons, ''Money Should Be Fun.''
And these are just appetizers! (Others include a marvelous salad of blue crab and grapefruit, avocado, tarragon and crisp flatbread, and a thick and glossy lobster veloute with shaved chestnut and yet more black truffles, which Mr. White uses at Ai Fiori the way some chefs use salt or pepper.) What is going on here?
A vest-pocket history: Mr. White was the chef at Fiamma Osteria in SoHo, where he was known as a pasta magician. In 2002, the restaurant received three stars from The New York Times. Later, he was the chef at both Alto and Convivio, where he cooked northern and southern Italian food, respectively. Those restaurants also received three stars from The Times.
With Chris Cannon, his erstwhile business partner, who had hired him for Alto and Convivio, Mr. White launched the elegant and Italianate seafood palace Marea on Central Park South in 2009 (three stars again), and the more casual Osteria Morini, devoted to the food of Emilia-Romagna, in SoHo last year (one star).
AT Ai Fiori, the idea is to commingle the cooking of the south of France, where Mr. White worked in the early 1990s, and the northwesterly Italian cuisine of the Ligurian coast. (The dining room, meanwhile, supports an atmosphere that is more in line with the bland veneers of American corporate culture than anything European: it really might be anywhere.)
So, yes, there are a few pastas to eat after the excess of the appetizer course. They follow the starters like a run of good cards: delicate little gnocchi made of semolina flour and scented with saffron, then served with crab meat, tomato and lobes of sea urchin; a feather-light plate of wine-glazed ravioli stuffed with ricotta and mascarpone, with truffle-infused boschetto cheese; and braised veal agnolotti with a brush of butternut squash and sugo that appears comprised mostly of butter and (naturally) black truffles.
There are a few risottos as well. These are not as magic but they are hardly clunkers, especially since one is dressed with escargot and bits of cotechino sausage and another with a comically large portion of our old familiar black truffle and a lashing of veal stock.
Eaten alongside wines to match -- relatively inexpensive Ligurian treasures pulled forth by Hristo Zisovski, the restaurant's beverage director, who came to Ai Fiori from Jean Georges; or a Norman cider, or glasses of Pauillac -- they help set the stage for a meal that moves well beyond the familiar Italian boundaries of what Mr. White has heretofore cooked in New York.
Dessert follows suit, with a selection from the pastry chef Robert Truitt that pays deep compliment to the savory food without overshadowing it. Among the best is the baba al rhum. It is a king's dish, Neapolitan by way of France, served here with a passion-fruit coulis and a small arrangement of tropical fruit.
The restaurant's veal chop, as another example, comes with a sweetbread choux farci and sauce Perigueux, the meat seared hard in a pan and finished slowly in a low-temperature oven. It arrives at the table sweet and flavorful beneath a gloss of butter and garlic and thyme and rosemary, a taste of the south of France, hardly Italian at all.
Pan-fried sole is served with a nutty brown-butter sauce thickened with cream and veal stock, then lightened with lemon juice and thyme, made salty with capers. Butter-poached lobster comes with root vegetables and a paint-thick sauce of butter, vin jaune, lobster essence and a jolt of acidity that owes something to the cooking of Jean-Georges Vongerichten. The dish nods respectfully as well to Thomas Keller, who originated butter-poached lobster at the French Laundry in Yountville, Calif. Then it dunks on both of them.
And rack of lamb shows up as individual chops wrapped in a grind of breast meat and foie gras that have been sealed in caul fat beneath a single crest of flattened parsley. Heated to melting, mahogany perfection, they sit regal and massive on the table in the manner of an edible Jeff Koons sculpture: shiny, intensely flavored, magnificent.
There may be prettier restaurants in the world of Michael White. But the cooking is at its very top here at the Setai. Oui, chef!
Ai Fiori
Rating: 3 stars
The Setai Hotel, 400 Fifth Avenue (between 36th and 37th Streets), Midtown; (212) 613-8660.
ATMOSPHERE Nearly formal.
SOUND LEVEL A low hum of satisfaction.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Scallops and bone marrow, slow-poached egg, roasted squab; saffron gnocchi, veal agnolotti; butter-poached lobster, Dover sole, rack of lamb, veal chop; baba al rhum.
WINE LIST Lots of southwest France and northwest Italy represented, at prices that are reasonable but by no means low.
PRICE RANGE Appetizers, $14 to $27; entrees, $18 to $55.
HOURS Monday to Friday, 7 to 10:30 a.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 8 to 11 a.m.; daily, 11:45 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Sunday to Thursday, 5:30 to 10:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 11 p.m.
RESERVATIONS Recommended at least two weeks ahead.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The restaurant is accessible by elevator. Dining room aisles are large and uncluttered. Restrooms are accessible.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (D1)
 SETTING THE TABLE: The bland corporate-culture atmosphere of the dining room of Ai Fiori is quickly forgotten once the food arrives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANTHONY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); SEAFOOD (76%); MENU PRICES (72%); TRENDS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (69%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

 
